ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The reform of the Croatian judicial system requires measures and activities to establish systems, training of judicial officials, and in particular training of graduate lawyers, as trainees in judicial bodies, courts and state attorneys. In particular, it is necessary to regulate the question of obtaining the conditions for passing a judicial examination, as well as the way in which it is passed. According to the Council of Europe's recommendation, the Council of Ministers of the Member States on the independence, effectiveness and role of judges since 13 October 1994, Member States must allow appropriate training to candidates for judicial officials prior to their appointment. It was therefore necessary, when proposing this law, to also take account of this Council of Europe recommendation. The proposal for this law regulates the conditions for the admission of trainees to courts and state attorneys, the duration of exercise practice, entry into the training and professional programme. The objectives and methods of carrying out apprenticeship practices, as well as professional practices for law enforcement and public record practitioners, as well as for lawyers with completed university degree law studies in state administration bodies, local and regional administrations and other legal persons and persons employed in scientific and co-operational professions in colleges that intend to access judicial examinations. This bill also regulates the application procedure, the way in which the judicial examination is passed and evaluated. This bill allows quality preparation for passing a judicial examination to all lawyers who approach a judicial examination, as well as a quality and complete education of judicial practitioners, and in particular through a system of education in the judicial academy of the Ministry of Justice. As well as lawyers in state administration bodies, local and regional self-governments, as well as in other legal persons and persons employed in scientific and co-operational professions at law schools, are required for professional education and, for the purpose of accessing and passing a judicial examination, to carry out certain training practices in court. This law also provides that court practitioners and state-level law enforcement officers are required to pass part of professional education for at least 150 hours according to a training programme that must comply with the judicial academy programme. The same applies to public notary trainees, although for lawyer trainees and public notary practitioners, professional training is governed by the Law on Law on Law of Law on Public Registration. Here we must especially stress that for a trainee, a person who meets the following conditions can be accepted: Croatian citizenship, that he must have a medical ability to work, completed a graduate law study. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union may also be admitted as trainees in judicial bodies if they meet the conditions laid down by this law. The vacancy of the trainees is determined by the Ministry of Justice each year, and at the proposal of the Supreme Court of Presidents of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The draft law specifically laid down the procedure for selecting trainees in the vacancy, which is filled in by a public tender issued by the Ministry of Justice. The process of verifying the knowledge and evaluation of candidates shall be carried out by the Special Commission for the selection of trainees. This law also lays down criteria for the selection of candidates, and sets out the list of candidates proposed for the selection of the minister responsible for the conduct of judicial affairs. Exercise practice lasts for 2 years and candidates are obliged to practice, according to the established programme. During the exercise practice, the trainee is appointed a mentor, who conducts supervision of the work of the trainees and his training. Organisation and conduct of a judicial examination under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. The judicial examination shall be brought before the examination committee of 5 members. The members of the examination committee shall be lawyers with at least 15 years of racial experience in the profession, following a judicial examination. This law also lays down the conditions for the submission of a judicial examination, judicial and national law enforcement officers and so that these trainees must have at least 18 months of training and a programme established by this law. Legal practitioners and public notary practitioners must also have at least 18 months of training in order to be able to access judicial examinations while lawyers are employed in the authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government and other legal persons as well as persons employed in teaching and co-operational professions in law schools are obliged to carry out a judicial examination in a court of at least half of the time established by the exercise practice of jurisprudence and state-law practitioners. The programme provides exactly how many colleges need to implement in court. It means civil law and criminal law and other branches. The judicial exam consists of a written and oral part. The written part consists of a business consisting of civil law and a criminal offence based on a specific case file, while the third written action is produced by a candidate by a selection in the field of labour, commercial or administrative law. The oral part of the examination consists of examinations of civil and commercial law, civil and procedural and family law, criminal and criminal law, labour law and administrative law, systematic law and the basis of the European Union system and the organisation of justice. The oral part of the examination shall be passed before the examination committee. The results of the examination in each case shall be kept in the manner set out in this proposal. A judicial exam can be conducted no more than three times. In particular, the draft law stipulated that a judicial examination would be open to all candidates who had obtained the conditions for passing the examinations under the current law by 1 September 2009. After that date, the judicial examination will be subject to the conditions laid down in this law. So this law very transparently and clearly prescribes the whole way in which practice will be carried out, how they will apply and how a judicial exam will be carried out. Because as we care about the independence of our judges, it's really about expertise. And we're already getting expertise in the study itself, but it's especially important after we've finished studying how we're doing this very important part, and there's a big newspaper just like this mentor that we've installed in the provisions of the law that we actually need to work with the trainees. We also believe that this is a very significant step in reforming our justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12184	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12185	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the draft law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam with the Final Proposal for a Law delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 12 June 2008. We believe that it is necessary to approach the adoption of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination primarily in order to bring the acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union. It should also be stressed that the implementation of the Croatian judiciary reform contains measures and activities to train trainees in judicial bodies, obtain conditions and how to pass judicial exams. This law ensures the uniform and quality education of future judges and state lawyers. The education system is being standardised throughout Croatia for all lawyers who wish to join the judicial exam. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union may also be admitted as trainees in judicial bodies if they meet the conditions laid down by this law. The draft law regulates the conditions for the admission of trainees to the courts of the State Attorney's Office, the overall duration of the exercise practice, the objectives and the manner of the duration of the exercise practice as well as part of the professional practice for law enforcement and public law enforcement practitioners and for lawyers with completed university law studies in state administration bodies, local and regional self-government, regional self-government and other legal persons and persons employed in scientific and co-operational professions in colleges intending to access judicial examinations. The procedure for the admission of trainees to judicial authorities is prescribed in a way that the vacancy of trainees is determined by a reception plan published and established by the Ministry of Justice at the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Chief State Lawyer of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the framework criteria. A written examination of the knowledge and evaluation of candidates conducted by the Committee for the selection of trainees shall be introduced and shall consist of three members. After the procedure has been carried out, the Committee for the selection of trainees sets out a list of candidates according to the number of points reached, it proposes to elect a minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The draft law also determines the duration of the training practice consisting of the practical part of the training practice carried out in courts and state attorneys and from participation in the professional workshops of the Judicial Academy. It also determines the responsibility of mentors for the work of trainees in a way that mentors must undergo special training before they are allowed to train the trainees. As regards the very passing of a judicial examination for lawyers employed in state administration bodies and other legal persons who have less real insight into the work of judicial authorities or courts, it is important that lawyers are employed in state administration bodies, local and regional self-government and other legal persons, in order to carry out professional education in court a certain part of the working time for the purpose of obtaining the conditions for passing a judicial examination. Furthermore, the conditions to be met by candidates for passing a judicial examination are laid down, and the procedure for passing a judicial examination is essential for the paper to consist of three actions on which the members of the examination committee draw up the minutes. The judicial examination shall take place before the examination committee consisting of 5 members who must be lawyers at least 15 years of training after a judicial examination and who are elected on time of two years. They have the option of re-election. This proposed law should respond to the needs of the judiciary but should also allow quality preparation for passing a judicial examination of all lawyers who approach a judicial examination as well as full education of judicial practitioners through mandatory and appropriate training, thus enabling the acquisition of professional skills and knowledge for the work of future judges and state lawyers. Due to the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it will support the adoption of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12186	Thank you. The Committee on Legislatives, European Integrations. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Richembergh. What? How do you give it to me now? SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12187	Special thanks to the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination, with the final proposal of the law, is a law that has a relatively small circle of addressees, i.e. the person to whom it applies. But it has an extremely high value and impact on the future quality of the justice system in the Republic of Croatia. It is about training through the practice of people who will lead a judicial system in the future or work on other judicial matters. So by my judgment, this law deserves very important attention. He's welcome and needs to be brought. Is it in this form? I'm not sure. Why? Because there is a discrepancy between the declared principles of the Ministry of Justice and the very proposal of this law. Namely, our Ministry of Justice through the whole strategy assures us that we need to work on specialization of judges in order to be able to perform the task more successfully. Our Ministry of Justice has insisted on establishing a judicial academy so that judges and all lawyers can be further educated and trained. We, as a society, advocate lifelong learning, and certainly legal skills are getting old faster than others. And in the bill of law, we have an obligation to all, to all the lawyers, whether they're from the economy, the state administration or the so-called. Criminals from a public defender's area or really judges from a different part of law whether civil or criminal, must, in practice for a few months, go through all this and get a name. Which one? It's the general attorney or general medical specialist again, so to speak. So, and another circumstance. So far, it has been possible for economic lawyers, corporate lawyers, to gain access to the judicial exam through increased lengthy experience. This law doesn't predict it. Each lawyer, regardless of where he has gained experience and how much experience he must pass through the programme established by the minister, not by the judicial academy, but by the minister who determines, must pass at least half of the practices in the court or the public defendership. And even administrative lawyers who specialize in management. I don't think administrative lawyers by name, by academic title and all their lives want to work in the state administration have to go through the same procedure in passing a judicial exam, and it's known that even lawyers specialize, of course they don't put on their board for commercial reasons to deal with, say, civil or some other law and their whole life in it is perfected and said that he hasn't perfected his knowledge. Another objection that can be pointed out for a reason in this bill, regardless of which we will support, because it is better to have an orderly system than an unregulated system, is that according to the solutions offered, it is actually an all-powerful person of the minister or minister of justice. It even determines the program, although we have an established judicial academy. It shall also appoint a judicial examination committee and their deputies. She decides on a program to be implemented through the exercise. The minister also decides which trainee will be employed, and that doesn't even decide when it comes to judges. The Minister shall decide on the calls for solutions of the Committee for Investigation in the Judicial Exam, etc. Almost half of the articles are the powers of the justice minister. So, I think that, this circumstance should be taken into account, predicting that if the programme is already a training programme for persons or bodies who have professional qualifications for this. I won't say the minister doesn't, but he doesn't have to have them. It is not prescribed anywhere that the minister must be a magistrate or a doctor of law. He doesn't have to have them, and you'll agree that the Academy of Justice must have professionals and that's what we've established. The same must be done by persons appointed to the Committee for the pass of an expert examination. And in the end, I want to say one more thing about transitional and final provisions. At the very least, legal certainty requires and legal standards require that persons who have crossed half of the traineeship practice under the current law have the right to complete that practice and to lay down the programme that was applicable to them. However, it is for me, but I hope for you narrowing down, so to speak, professional bases, staff-based professional bases, if we do not notice that the economic lawyers are also qualified at least after 5 or 6 years of practice in different legal affairs and that they must have a chance to take their stand before the examination committee, i.e. the commission and gain the practical opportunity to pass the judicial exam and the rights resulting from it. I hope that the proposing representatives will take into account the good intentions of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club and consider at least bringing these two amendments to the vote. This is the possibility that corporate lawyers can, through experience, acquire the right to pass a judicial examination and that the programme of vocational training is not decided by the minister, but by the body qualified for professional training, at least by the academy or commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12188	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSLS, HSU, Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, first of all, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU will support the adoption of this law for two equally important reasons. One is that this law is part of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia which must indeed be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union, but another reason it can be and in the right place is that we really appreciate that this law is both important and necessary. Thus, in the process of reforming the Croatian judiciary whose aim is to strengthen and strengthen the institutional capabilities of the Croatian judiciary as an independent, as a moral and efficient system of this society, should certainly begin from the foundation, and this means from the quality of the Croatian judiciary's fullness in the way that this law provides. Therefore, the law regulates the education of judicial practitioners, the professional education of trainees in state administration bodies, local and regional self-government and persons employed in co-operational professions at universities, law schools, or in other legal entities. From this we read that the law has a double purpose. It is one thing to enable the unique and quality education of future judges and state lawyers and another important purpose or reason is to standardise and improve the legal system of education throughout Croatia for lawyers who wish to join the judicial exam. In addition to determining the status of the trainees in a way that the trainees are civil servants for a specified time, it is also important that each year the Ministry of Justice has to determine the number of available training posts in courts and state attorneys so that, with a short-term reception plan for the calendar year, a medium-term plan can be adopted at a time of 2 years and a long-term plan for 4 years. Although there is no need for all lawyers who wish to join the judicial exam to be allowed paid training in judicial bodies, normally due to high costs, it is nevertheless to wish that as many young lawyers as possible be allowed to practice in the judicial system. Certainly, as a good solution, there is a need to highlight the provisions of the law by which the vacancy of the trainees is filled with a public competition with the fact that the examination of the knowledge and evaluation of the candidates is carried out by the Commission for the selection of trainees who have 3 members. Thus, the completion of a job as a candidate in the selection process achieves a total number of points, suggests the complete objectivity of the system, which is extremely significant. I hope that this objectivity in everyday practice will be both obvious and present. In fact, I want it because of a number of young legal populations so that at the outset we would have no reason to object to the system in which they want to work, and I think we should also admit that in the near past or in the near past there have been cases of reception of judicial practitioners beyond the established criteria, which is interpreted as party employment, as nepotism, and all of which is actually causing a negative perception of the public. It is extremely important for us to assess and strengthen the role of mentor who will have to pass a special education and this is also a quality solution. We all know doing mentor jobs requires increased efforts by a judge or a state attorney, so it is necessary to further honor or in a certain way to stimulate such work. In all professions, it is known and adopted as a rule that without a quality mentor there is neither a quality nor a prescribed internship, and thus no quality preparation for this final expert state or judicial exam. Here, while respecting these essential reasons, and not wanting to repeat what the distinguished colleagues have said before me, I conclude that the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU will support the adoption of the law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12190	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12191	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The very thought and word judicial exam for all those who have passed this causes certain stomach nausea, so in any case change is welcome in terms of quality according to practice. The fact is that in this area of education, the staff necessary for judicial reform is one of the important things and how to train practice personnel. We are also witnesses of us who passed the Zagreb Faculty and later when we tried to translate it into practice that we had a basic problem that we were very full of theories, and in the practical part we actually met the first submission only at the workplaces we came to. It's not that big a deal now. So, and now we have that part that's very good at training human resources theoretically, but this part is kind of neglecting itself. So a certain balance between theory and practice is welcome already at the university itself, and then what you see here comes from this law, it's that in preparing a judicial exam it's going to be the same additional criterion. In fact, it is evident that the practical part of the action and writing itself is almost a third of the increase as this theoretical part comes down to one more objective judgment on the committees themselves when the judicial exam is passed. So in writing and in the very way that it's imagined, I guess more new ones who will approach will not cause so much trouble because of the amount of pages that I say, thousands and thousands that, in those three or four or five months, should have been put in the head. So I support these amendments to the law primarily because they lead to an increase in this practical part of the activity, and through the internship that is necessary and implemented in that part of the judicial institutions for which lawyers from the economy where I have worked for years can claim to be welcome. In this education, the employer must also make sure that the personnel he wants to prepare universally for all areas, allocate certain means, or time, and thus enable the knowledge of the system through which he eventually has that knowledge, and the interest of these companies, can best be expressed. So, with the necessary motivation of mentors in the judicial institutions themselves that have not been motivated so far, they've also left candidates towards their resourcefulness as to how much knowledge and where to collect, and now the intended motivation has come well and I think this law deserves support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12192	Thank you. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to say firstly that this law absolutely needs to be supported, so the final proposal of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam, if for nothing else, because it dared to say for the first time in one place in a good way regulates these issues, was adopted a whole series of real standards, real institutes that would in a clear and precise way regulate this problem, and so far we have had such a situation that it was regulated not only in more regulations than even here and legal sources we had more from the system, the old system, so 90 years ago, so the former Yugoslav system. The basic characteristic of this law is that indeed in one place, therefore, and quality issues that regulate the status of trainees in judicial bodies are elaborated primarily, but the following very important issues are also identified. Therefore, the conditions for the reception of trainees both in courts and in state attorneys, the continued duration of the training practice, but I think it is very important to emphasise that the regulation and way of implementing training practices, as well as professional practices for law enforcement and public law enforcement practitioners, but also for lawyers with a degree in law in public administration bodies, local and regional self-government and other legal persons, as we say in a so-called way, lawyers from the economy, so lawyers who are employed in companies in this sense in legal persons. It also regulates the application process of the programme and the way in which the judicial examination is passed and evaluated. Therefore, I have to pass a judicial exam as one test which, in the sense of obtaining the relevant knowledge, must be passed, i.e. to ensure that each lawyer has a basic prerequisite to appear before courts, to represent certain cases, and can actually carry out that part of the work within the judiciary, the State's attorney, the public notary is now in one transparent, transparent and clear way, but also the process of reporting this exam as well as the way the examinations and evaluations of the results of the response, i.e. success in that examination. On the one hand, this regulation aims to enable, therefore, a quality preparation for the passing of a judicial examination of all lawyers who approach a judicial examination, and it is a quality and complete education of judicial practitioners, absolutely on the one hand. On the other hand, however, it does determine objective standards, training of judicial practitioners through mandatory therefore and adequate preparation for laying down, i.e. adequate training. Finally, future judges, state lawyers, then public notaries, trainees in the economy, this regulation allows them to get the really necessary expertise. However, this law deserves our particular attention from another aspect, on the one hand, so any reform in this case of judicial reform must necessarily include this system of professional training and training of young experts in this case in judicial bodies, people on whom the system will eventually rest and whose work will therefore depend on the results of this reform process. This law, in my opinion, is exactly what makes it possible, and that is why, as a quality regulation, it absolutely needs to be supported. And let me remove perhaps some of the remarks that we have had the opportunity to hear in previous discussions or the assessment of this law, that it in some sense makes it impossible for lawyers who are employed in companies or in other bodies outside the judiciary to prevent them from passing a judicial examination. The provision of Article 19 of this Law provides for these provisions, i.e. those options, so it is not a prohibition, and that category of graduate lawyers can, under certain conditions, access to a judicial examination by law. Of course, here I also see a qualitative shift in terms of solutions so far, because for the first time precisely this law and that segment is so precisely prescribed in what time period, according to which spheres they too have to pass this traineeship or training section in order to obtain appropriate practice, appropriate knowledge and in a better quality or quality way can prepare a judicial exam, and thus get better results on the judicial exam. At the very end, therefore, this regulation is a quality regulation. It is also one segment of the judicial reform seen in its entirety. It will indeed enable and will be a quality tool for young people, therefore experts, lawyers who have just graduated, precisely by the basis of this law to be trained, not only to pass a judicial exam, but to really in the world of this future work in the most qualitative way to perform their work and to respond to all these challenges that will face them in terms of solving and the most complex subjects that can naturally appear in practice. And in that sense, I absolutely support this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12194	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12195	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. In my court, this final proposal, which is before us, represents a promotion of the existing regime, especially when it comes to objectifying the criteria for a judicial exam, because from what we hear from young colleagues and colleagues, including some older ones, the criteria are not always what they should be, so I think this is good and that this is one big step forward. There are some, uh, nomotechnically I'd say, maybe little things and a concept problem that bothers me. Let me start with this technique first. Here, a little bit of order we'd like to say. In Article 2(2), there are no items, and therefore there is no need for a number in addition to that single item, e.g. Then, in Article 5(3), you are talking about obstacles to entry into the training service and you are talking about certain criminal acts that are impediments, and I do not know why you do not follow the Code of Penal Code, but you are talking about certain protected goods that are not so defined in the Penal Code. Maybe we should work a little hard and find the right classification of the crimes involved. There may be a little something that might not be a problem in practice with this. It's about the fact that when you say crimes against everything, it's possible that someone is prevented from receiving an exercise function out of pure malpractice, let's just say that. If someone filed a criminal charges, and the criminal charges were dismissed, he continues as a subsidiary prosecutor, a criminal case is being conducted, so she could not be accepted. And I think it might be a good idea to say if the procedure was conducted on official duty, possibly so that such a case would not be reported, that it would be done. Furthermore, you have one for me vague situation. In Article 31, you talk about what happens when a judicial exam is not passed, so you say that a candidate who does not pass the right exam can report it after four months. But there's no deadline. It could be six months, it could be three years, it could be two years. I mean, maybe that's where it was supposed to be. But what's the problem now is that you say if the candidate doesn't join the new one he doesn't think he even passed. And how is it that when you do not have a time-limit for them to come, when will you feel that he has not made his appointment? As a result, the same applies to the logic of paragraph 3 at the time of withdrawal. So it's thought he didn't even lay down, if he didn't lay down then he fell. De facto, in three chains, you have come to the conclusion that the one who for objective reasons has given up that he actually failed the judicial exam, so I think it would be good for the motion to do so to his own amendment office, whether to add the deadline, whether to arrange this logical story between paragraphs 1 to 3. And now that one concept question I have to admit, I'm sorry it's settled like this. The colleagues have spoken with full right that our system of education of lawyers so far has often suffered from the separation of theory from practice, that colleges have forced a theoretical approach and that young fellow lawyers have not often been in a position to deal with the practical aspects of their profession successfully. With us at the university, this logic prevailed, as we will learn the theory, and let them teach them the practice of a judicial which, of course, is not good, and I think that interaction of theory and practice is from the very study to the passing of a judicial exam, so I would say even in the lifelong education of lawyers is necessary. However, this law comes from one concept which is the separation of theory and practice and this concept was unfortunately present in one part of the judicial officials, and even through that concept judges for judges who I think proved not to be good, because they ordered from professors texts which then judges would often say and it is not good. So, I think that the ministry should think about one concept that would integrate theory and practice in a way that allows judges, state lawyers and lawyers to participate more in the follow-up practice, to sort of valorize it, but on the other hand, the theory should be included in that part of education that happens after graduation until the end of life. In this context, I think that it is not good and that it is not a well-disciplined position of scientific recruits, co-workers and teachers at law schools and universities. Why? Because they're placed in the same rank as the conditions for laying, as if lawyers are in any company that can be logical, but here I think a distinction is needed. For me, it is not in the same position that one who passes, even in this case may already be a professor, why not pass a judicial exam. So someone teaches civil, civil procedural, criminal, criminal procedural law or economic policy. I think there's a difference and you recognize it. And I especially think that the 36-month condition for someone who might have a PhD in legal science is exaggerated and is just demoting young people at the university to go to law school. I would therefore suggest to the applicant that he consider, by his own amendment, this Article 22 regulates in a way that facilitates the passing of a judicial examination to employees at the university at legal disciplines, therefore not on unfair disciplines. You've got a lawyer who's handing over illegal cases at law schools. It's one story, and secondly, I think you should also think about some interaction between the university and the judicial academy, and that would be good for both theory and practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12196	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12197	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of Europe's report on Croatia's progress in Chapter 23 on justice and human rights states that the accession to the judiciary, then the promotion, so the progress of judicial personnel remains very non-transparent. If we can talk here about what it's about, then that's what it's worth to most of the trainees. We all know from life, we have friends, acquaintances whose children or we personally know these young people, ended up with great with very good, no chance or long no chance of accessing, entering the judiciary. I think lately, however, as many things have improved, but in the 1990s the graduated double was guaranteed all the doors were opened to him in all the judicial bodies. And it was immediately in the stratagem one bad message, not to talk about such a young man or a girl who knows how he was admitted. That he was admitted to political corruption. How he'll be an independent judge or a state attorney tomorrow, when he got in there like that. So that's where things had to change and maybe first in this area. We were also witnesses a few years ago, with one big affair, also the trainees, who stopped silent because they generally did not tolerate the legal means of fear that ever again and that the doors of the judiciary of all the judicial authorities so at the beginning of their careers would be shut forever. And those must be the bravest people. So, from the beginning, they've been demoted by such people, so they turned a little more promutuous and wiser to the big companies that immediately spotted them, even during their studies. Then we had a negative selection for a long time, so for a long time it was an exception to getting quality people right at the start, because they had already been picked up by someone else or had any hope of applying to these competitions. So, in 2004, the Croatian public was familiar with the situation that graduates took seats, and excellent and very good were denied that right. Now, more so that it wouldn't really happen so, that really the admission to the judiciary, it's about the trainees, it's transparent, certainly, that this bill is one strong and big step forward, that it depends not on this or that minister and his mood and his looking at things, but that the simple system works in the everyday staff combination. And that's good. This is what I think the maximum is about, that it's objectively objective, so it's not just about grades, it's just that it's just that it's just about the approach they're carrying out in the interview with these candidates. This is an extremely serious effort, and certainly that objectiveization needs to be supported, and perhaps this could still be with some observations and finishing, an example of how judges can be objectified to the extreme measures, as a basis for promoting them, but also dissatisfaction in work, that this is not a form of political pressure, but simply a transparent way of meeting the high survival criteria in the judicial profession. So it can be and this is the first time that we see, as we used to do to the rules that were subject to change, they weren't based in that sense firmly on the law, so for the first time in one law we here have objectively to the ultimate possibilities, I would say borderline, admission to justice as trainee candidates. However, there is something that immediately leads to doubt, whether as well as well imagined, it will be accomplished. The very fact that it is claimed here, that the assessment of this law does not require the provision of additional resources. There is no good law if it does not need to be provided with at least such means. I think it is in direct contrast with Article 13 which speaks exactly how the trainee will be deployed and will be appointed a mentor, to monitor the work of the trainees and who will take care of his professional education, and he will have to be educated and pass the education at the judicial academy. So these are special and additional funds. We also need to know that our judicial academy is still not teamed up, that's not my free rating, but that's the Council of Europe's assessment, it's also there saying, that unfortunately there's also a judicial academy that has such a pompous name, I think it's prematurely still, that we gave it the name of the Centre for the Education of Judges has been quite enough since those beginnings when it was put into effect in 2002, or 2001. So he has a preambitious name, and he doesn't match the content you know of. Academy, and you see there's a man employed. And it's got it and it's gone. It's a little not serious, and especially when it comes to justice, then we need to be extremely careful and when it comes to terms. So here the funds were needed to secure, just as it was necessary to secure, precisely for the education of these mentors. Something I would like to draw particular attention to, is here in Article 5 for the trainee, so that a person who has Croatian citizenship can be admitted. You know that we have had to enable many legal professions to approach the European Union, so this is now very, very problematic whether we are going to have to change it, but also because our graduates can also pass a judicial exam across Europe and in America. You see, there is never and nowhere a limited number of approaches, and now all of a sudden, in Article 31, we limit the candidates to take that exam, so that they can take that exam from three attempts at the most. That's not good, because that's how we, young people, start up young people, and we're chronically deficited with highly educated people at the beginning of our careers, block that they can do any kind of work at all if he doesn't pass a judicial or judicial exam. On the other hand, we will have to enable foreigners who do not have a limit on taking a judicial examination, so that Croatia or recognise such a judicial exam, that they then carry out various legal proceedings with a passed judicial exam. So let's just remember that shouting case of Jon John Kennedy Jr. taking that exam eight, nine times. But you see, and that's true. Let's not laugh, we all know, of course, the ones who lied to him, but also the ones who didn't. So our general public shouldn't be some particular expert who knows it's one of the most difficult exams that we can even imagine. Its weight is not in the complexity of matter as much as in its scope and in the fact that this exam is being passed at once. It lasts for hours, eight interrogators under one single candidate. Let's not do that. It's serious stuff. Croatia has fewer and fewer inhabitants. We've got professional people leaving. Don't ruin young people, and please do the harm of having a good law like this have a limit where you will, which you will make of these people to go to Slovenia, to Ukraine. There's no limit there, so he'll come here then, and we'll have to pass that exam under such a law of recognition. So, so far there has never been such a restriction, because the person I am who on several occasions knows it from practice, the person I am on several occasions laying down and can't lay down alone, give up alone, and it's never been more than four, five times. I don't know if he recorded any cases. And that's why I'm asking the Proposer not to destimulate. People are under special stress, when they see these provisions, so let's give them a chance and show these people they know, not that they don't know and that Croatia and the Croatian judiciary don't need them. Yes, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12198	Thank you. I just remembered that 40 years ago I took that exam. Then I got the same gastritis from the porch. ... Yeah, it's turned into something else. [[You can't hear it.]] Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll be very brief, I hope and content. Well, now that Mr. Shakespeare has already said that I don't know if I understood the sweat when he took the judicial exam and got gastritis. I also had problems when I took the bar exam, but I passed it. Because I couldn't, that day I couldn't eat anything, even if lunch would have prepared it. I had a three-hour exam, and I didn't sleep all night for the other day. So it's such a hard test of excitement. But it doesn't matter now. It's important something else, that this law, this bill, has made one step in any case in the concept of judicial reform and because here's what we say from the SDP's Club of Representatives. At the same time, we claim that the law needs to be corrected, and then everything my colleagues have been saying would be good to consider when it is, even if it has not succeeded in obtaining from individual representatives from my party or from another party, and that it is a matter of improving the text of the law, it would be good to make its own amendments, i.e. to become an integral part of the bill's proposal. And what I have to say and I declare that, in this regard, after speaking to the Committee on Justice on this matter, there have been no opposition to my proposal, but there is still an opinion raised in the sense that there is no presentation of the Committee's report as a committee's position, although I do not know why. But I accept that fact, and that's why I've put together four amendments, and they concern when it comes to the admission of trainees, then I have to realize that as far as this plan is concerned, it's starting. So, the annual plan. We have a medium-term plan for two years and a long-term four years. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: This already shows that there is no thought at all about these medium- and long-term plans, because if they were thought to actually be carried out, then this item would not be reduced at the end of this Article 4. So I suggest that this item be changed and that it be brought into line with the content of the preceding paragraph. And what seems more important to me. So, the reception decision after the public tender is carried out and after the commission composed of three, I would say a representative member, one from a senior official and that of the management rank of the Ministry of Justice. Then, at the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court, the judge and one from the State's Attorney's Office. So when these people, after the candidate's competition, propose a list of candidates to the minister. I have also proposed on the board and here I propose, and in this sense I have drawn up the amendment, that the decision is made only by the Commission. Why? So we can relieve the minister. In addition, these people are drawn up in that way that the minister has appointed, so I guess they can then make a decision in the first degree that this is the candidate they chose, and then that the minister in the second degree which is also logically deciding on the objection, and now you have in the provisions of the final bill that the commission draws up a list. Then, the minister decides on concrete candidates who will be a trainee, i.e. a trainee, and then makes solutions. And the candidate may object, but he objectes to the minister that the legal system in exceptional situations suffers, but it doesn't make sense. And I think this is a solution that I suggest better. As for the duration of practice. The same serious one seems to me to be the amendment that I explained to the Justice Committee, which is, therefore, the trainee is being admitted in time of two years and has the status of a civil servant while this exercise is going on. But this same trainee acquires the right to pass a judicial exam after 18 months. So a year and a half with that exercise practice programme being governed by the law in Article 11 so that after the citizen's department has passed, after the criminal section has passed, after the commercial court has passed, after the attorney's office has passed all together, it takes 12 months. And then it says that the remaining four months, the remaining six months, the head of the judicial body will determine where the trainee will be. You know that in practice will be everything. And after that, when the 18 months pass after that, I would say, by a 6-month gap, it acquires the conditions for passing a judicial exam in a way that two months after those 18 months is given to it for the preparation of the judicial exam. And I suggest the following: that those 3 months, I would not be 2 months but 3 months in that distance of 12 to 18 months, which I would say is a conditionally said empty walk because the law has passed and another 3 months to be decided by the head of the judicial body, and 3 months to prepare for the judicial exam. This will, of course, ensure other than the quality which is of course present especially with this solution, this... We will ensure one efficiency that after 18 months can indeed be reported as a candidate for a judicial examination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And third last, as far as the public's concerned, you have in Article 26 one formulation... A strange one in paragraph 5 says, "The ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary may allow future candidates or persons of legitimate interest to listen to an oral exam." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, look, those exams have always been pathetic. And then when the candidates come on, these future candidates haven't applied yet, some have finished studying, some are at the end of the study they listen to these exams and learn from it. I therefore propose that, through the amendments, of course, this simple, simple item should be deleted because you already have in the next item a solution that is perfectly fine, which is that the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary will determine the rules of conduct of the oral part of the exam as well as the conditions under which the hearing of the oral exam will be approved. And that's how we solved it. So we're not gonna close down the possibility that someone might think the exam is secret. The exam must never be a secret because it was never a secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12200	Thank you. And the final review of the esteemed Drazen Bošnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12201	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who debated. There's a lot going on around here right now in this last part of it, one word, and that's gastritis. My colleagues and our vice president, Mr. Shakespeare and colleague Šprem, here are their personal experiences in passing the judicial exam, actually said in that one whether the words are gastritis, and they may have painted in it the whole situation of today's passing of the judicial exam. Indeed the exam is very complex. The exam is very extensive, and it is indeed one difficult study of the whole matter, which is suddenly the same day actually laid in that oral part of course of the one written before. That's exactly what this law aims to prevent this gastritis from happening. The goal is, in fact, that our trainees and judges and state lawyers and those who come from companies, from local self-government, from public administration, that they all pass one and theoretical training and practical in courts and this one within the framework of workshops in our judicial academy, so that they actually pass this gastritis without that legal exam, not in a way that they have now put some information into themselves in some short time, but that through a serious training they have actually mastered both those skills and those skills that they will use in their work tomorrow as judges, either as lawyers, as state lawyers or notaries. That's the purpose and purpose of this law. And that's why those lawyers in the economy have to pass these workshops at the Justice Academy. They also have to go through that practical training in courts because careful he can work in a very respectable, respected company but through working in a company he can actually see only one segment of the right. These others can actually not participate at all, not see what it looks like. Also in law offices. Law offices today know they're specialized. The trainer can pass one segment of law, see someone dealing in damages, someone dealing with something else, but through this means training and workshops and training in court he will get a complete picture. Mentor, what does a mentor mean in this new system? Today we have a very common picture that these practicers of ours are actually left to themselves by the courts. The judges have a lot of work to do anyway. They have objects and that, please just go here now, go there so that no one is actually dealing systematically with these people. Today, we propose to this law the mentor institute. A man who will be especially educated at the Judicial Academy means to pass those knowledge on to the trainees. So he's gonna take care of that gym too, he's gonna take care of him. In the process itself and in the process itself, he will also be entrusted with certain procedural actions in the process of taking action. And when our intern goes through such training, I don't think passing a judicial exam should be a problem. What were certain nomotechnical remarks, of course, our Legislative Committee has already installed through its amendments. We will analyze it once again, as well as all these other amendments that I can see that they have actually come from some personal experiences, so we will further analyse them until the vote. It is certain that this law is a major step in relation to the system we have today. And in terms of actually professional education itself, but also in terms of transparency and objectivity. I thank everyone for having discussed it once more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12202	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12203	The final draft law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 113. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and representative Boris Šprem. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic. 1 of the Legislative Committee on Articles 17 and 18
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12204	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12205	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 19 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12206	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12207	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3 to Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12208	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12209	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4 in Article 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12210	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12211	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5, in Article 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12212	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12213	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Commissioners Ingrid Antičević-Marinović on Article 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12214	We accept. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12215	It's becoming an integral part. Mr. Representative Boris Spremo on Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12216	We do not accept this amendment because the promoter believes that the selection of trainees in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice as head of the competent ministry and trainee when elected has the status of civil servant. It is therefore unnecessary for this authorisation to be in the commission's jurisdiction to elect trainees. The commission is conducting the procedure and is proposing a choice for the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12217	Thank you. Mr. Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this is about an amendment that was intended for the commission composed of the representative of the Ministry of Justice appointed by the minister or minister, by the representatives of the State's attorney and by the representatives of the judges to carry out the whole procedure and prepare for the minister or minister to propose candidates for the selection of trainees. After that, the minister, or the minister, decides on the reception, but then decides on the right to object. It exists in our legal system and it is a bad system and that system needs to be changed. That is why I have proposed an amendment saying that this committee is drawn up as representatively and well as decides on a candidate to be elected or a candidate, and then the candidate can appeal to the ministry or the minister or minister. So I suggested one thing seems to me a more rational solution that the legal system also allows. I assume you agree with that, too. That is why I have proposed this amendment. Thank you. Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12219	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 to Article 11 of the same agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12220	We also don't accept. The applicant considers it necessary primarily to achieve greater quality and more thorough preparation for a judicial examination, to carry out a full 18 months of training and not to consider this for a period of two months to save the exam itself. We therefore believe that the solution we have proposed along with the mentor we also have, institutionalized in law, is considered to be very good quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12221	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12222	Mr. President. So we have a situation like this. The graduate lawyers, including myself, have been at the studio for four years. Today's study lasts five years after the Bologna process. Lawyers who passed a judicial exam like I did and passed them, had the right after a year and a half of traineeship practice, now it's called apprenticeship. And now we have the next situation on the bill which unfortunately will pass in that part, to determine the five, so another year more for the lawyers, and then half a year more for the traineeship. I know it's stretchy out there, but it's not accurate. So I suggested that in that trainee's or trainee's traineeship, which is prescribed by law for 12 months, in which departments, in which degrees etc., there remain 6 months of room for the exercise to be carried out on the basis of a decision by the judicial administration or the head of the judicial authority. What kind of mentality we are when something isn't fixed, and it's not here, so 1/3 of that part remains practically empty, it's not legally foreseen, in that part, who knows what that trainee is doing? That's why I suggested that, in order for him to get the conditions for passing a judicial exam, that he be within those last six months which is not what he's going to do anyway. So his time is cut short, and this time that he still gets in the study, a year and that time that only increases there, and he doesn't know what's going to happen. And one of the experiences we have with the medics. We've increased, it doesn't last five years, it doesn't last six years. And we've put a lot of burdens on them, but people don't sign up for medicine anymore. There's no competition anymore. So I wanted it to be more competitive here than the medics. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12223	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 to Article 12
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12224	It's the same explanation as the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12225	Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12226	... [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12227	He's retreating. This amendment has been withdrawn. I Amendment 4 to Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12228	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12229	He's accepted. I am voting on the final draft law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 96 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted. and we also have an announcement, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, President Boris Kunst, postpones the session for tomorrow July 3rd at 13:30 at the "Janko Draskovic" Hall 202.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12230	And now, in accordance with Article 223(3), I propose that point 9: - Final proposal for a law confirming the World Postal Convention with the final protocol, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Paragraph 10: - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a postal payment service agreement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 103, point 11: - Final proposal for a law on confirming the general rules of the World Postal Union, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 102 and point 12: - Final proposal for a law confirming the fifth additional protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, the sixth additional protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the seventh additional protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 101 Let's unite and discuss together with the fact that the clubs will have a discussion for 20 minutes and each stays 10 each. Does anyone have any objection to that since it's the same matter? There isn't. So we've united all those four points. The proposer of all these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the order, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12231	Respect for the Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Here, let me at these four united points, to save and a little time to be brief. In the introduction, I will say a few words about the World Postal Union within which such acts are brought which we intend to confirm in the Croatian Parliament. The World Postal Union was founded in 1874, and since 1948 it has become a specialized institution of united nations. The Republic of Croatia has been a member of the World Postal Union since 1992, and four conventions have been held since then, hence the World Post Office's Supreme Authorities in '94, '99. and in 2004. These conventions and these conventions have been adopted and acts are signed to support them, and I will only say a few words about each of them in a few sentences. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol with the Final Proposal of the Law. It is a document which is binding on all Member States of the World Postal Union and its adoption is a prerequisite for membership in the World Postal Union. The second document is the Law on Confirming the General Rules of the World Postal Union with the Final Proposal of the Law. It shall contain provisions that ensure the application of the Constitution and the functioning of the Union, determine both the composition of the working bodies and the way the Union works. For this document, it is necessary, so that this document is binding on the Republic of Croatia to pay membership fees in the world postal union, and for one unit of 42 thousand 120 Swiss francs, it is paid at the annual level and the funds for the implementation of this law in equivalent to EUR 200 thousand are secured in the state budget. The next item is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement in Postage Payment Services. This document regulates all postal financial services as postal instructions, including buy-in instructions, receipts from accounts and invoices. Each post office here works together with other postal administrations, and on these issues, the postal administration can work with other non-mail organizations in the countries concerned. And the last item is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Fifth, Sixth and seventh Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union. They were adopted at the World Postal Union conventions in '94, '99. both in 2004 and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union, States Parties to the Constitution and additional protocols must ratify them in their parliaments in order to bring these instruments into effect. Here, this is the shortest I could give in the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12232	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? As far as I can tell, no. I'm opening a debate, first by the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, Honorary Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12233	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the motionary. Four legislative proposals are before us, which are in fact a ratification of international documents of the World Postal Union, and these documents that were adopted in the Union congress in October 2004. General rules of the World Postal Union are, I would say, some kind of roof document, and additional protocols 5, 6 and 7 with the Constitution of the World Postal Union also change the content of the most important act of the international organisation. The World Postal Convention, with its final protocol, also forms a series of instruments that require ratification as well as an agreement on postal payment services. It is a large space with a number of mutual obligations of the member of the Union itself, and it is good that the Republic of Croatia has already joined all these documents in October 2004 by signing our authorised representative. But what I and the Croatian People's Party Club are interested in and we're looking for a decoded answer. Why does the Croatian Parliament receive ratification of this document with almost 4 years of reservations? What was the reason you kept these documents in government since October 2004? I'm sure he exists, but I wish we all knew him. These are documents that have mainly been used since 1 January 2006. We're more interested in the team. Why is that? Does this have anything to do with the protection policy of the Croatian post office monopoly? If there is, would we like to know what the contents of this policy are? Is that a national interest? If he did, we'd be happy to support him. But we want to know more about it. Of course, these are four documents of such a character that there's no doubt that we'll support the adoption of all four, but we're looking for a decoded answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12234	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, two registered first, Milivo Škvorc, and then respected representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12235	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There are four draft laws before us that regulate the question of the World Postal Union. I'm going to focus a little on Law 104 and Law 101. The first World Postal Union was founded as we heard on 9 October 1874, and in 1948 it became a specialized institution of the United Nations based in Bern. The proposal for this law confirms the Postal Convention and the Final Protocol adopted at the Congress by one of these laws, the final protocol to the Congress in Bucharest on 5 October 2004, and applies from 1 January 2006 and remains in force until the entry into force of the Act adopted at the next convention that we know happens every four years. Today, the Union has 191 Member States, the Republic of Croatia, with the Director-General of the International Office, passed its accession and its fundamental acts and has been a full member since 20 July 92. The Union's fundamental objective is to develop communication between people by providing postal services effectively as well as to contribute to the achievement of the noble objectives of international cooperation in the cultural, economic and social fields. In its action, the Union encourages the continued development of efficient and accessible universal postal services in order to facilitate communication amongsts of the world’s inhabitants and to guarantee the free postal mailing protocol in a unique postal area consisting of interlinked networks. By encouraging the application of common standards and the use of technology, by ensuring cooperation in the interaction between stakeholders, by improving successful technical cooperation and by ensuring that the needs of users of services that are constantly changing are met. The Union's bodies are congress, administrative councils, post office councils and international offices, while the permanent authorities are administrative councils, post office councils and international offices. The Governing Council shall be a permanent body which shall ensure, according to Union acts, the monitoring of the activities of the World Postal Union between the two conventions. The Union is financed by the contribution of Member States, the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol is one of the fundamental international instruments set up within the World Postal Union which is binding on all Member States. The World Postal Convention shall contain provisions which apply and apply to all international postal services as well as provisions relating to written consignment services and postal packages. The World Postal Convention, unlike the Constitution of the Union, which is amended and complemented by additional protocols, shall adopt a new and integrated text at each convention and shall remain in force until the start of the application of the new Convention adopted at the next convention. This law confirms the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and regulates the following issues. Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the final protocol in the text drawn up and signed in Bucharest on 5 October 2004 in the original in French and translated into Croatian. The central authority of the national administration responsible for confirming the international contracts in question. On the date of entry into force of this Act, the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol shall not be in force and the data on its entry into force will be published in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. The implementation of this law does not require additional resources in the state budget. The Union shall be financed by contributions from Member States. The rules of the World Postal Union set out the Union's costs. The established annual cost settlement fee, as we've already heard from the secretary of state, is 42 thousand 120 Swiss francs per unit. The Republic of Croatia participates in covering the costs of the Union in the class of one unit. The reason for the adoption of the laws of urgency is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to become a party to the international legal instrument that is binding on all Member States of the World Postal Union as soon as possible, i.e. the same for the Republic of Croatia to enter into force, and its provisions and formally become part of the internal legal order. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support all three proposals, all four draft laws, by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12236	Thank you. The Honorable representative Lucic continues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable secretary of state, respected MPs and MPs. A few words about this law, since my previous colleague spoke about points 104 and 101 I will say a few words about the law, pardon law 104, 101, I will say a few words about Law 103, and this is the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement. What to say here, and it's already said a lot. In the full set of postal laws on the agenda, there is also a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a postal payment service agreement, with the Final Bill, and we have already adopted its adoption by an urgent procedure. As regards the international agreement, we see that the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law is 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which is now talking about the obligation to confirm by two-thirds the adoption of this law by the Croatian Parliament. In 1992, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the world postal union, and is also a signator of a series of international agreements and protocols until today. A few words about the World Postman's Union. The World Postal Union was founded on 9 October 1874, and in 1948 it became a specialized institution of the United Nations, its headquarters in Bern. The Union today has 191 member states, including Croatia. The objective of the Union is to develop communication between peoples by providing postal services effectively, as well as by contributing to the achievement of the noble objectives of international cooperation in the cultural, social and economic fields. Union missions, promoting the continued development of efficient and accessible universal postal services, as well as their quality in order to facilitate communication amongst the world's inhabitants. The official language of the Union is French. The Union shall be financed by contributions from Member States. A few words about the postal payment services agreement, which is the subject of the law we are discussing. All postal services relating to the transfer of funds by a Member State of the Union shall be prescribed by the postal payment service agreement. This Agreement shall negotiate which services under the Agreement will be introduced and implemented by each other. The postal administration acts as an intermediary in relation to the postal administrations of other countries and the International Bureau. If the postal administration does not provide financial services as described in this Agreement or if the quality of services does not meet the requirements of the postal administration users of yoga to cooperate with non-postal organisations in the country concerned. This Agreement regulates postal financial services, postcards, including buy-in notes and invoice receipts. Other services may be provided on the basis of bilateral and multilateral agreements between two or more postal administrations. As regards the necessary means of law enforcement, it is necessary to say that the Republic of Croatia, as a member of the Union, is already paying the contribution set out in the annual amount of 42 000 120 Swiss francs, already planned in the state budget and there is no need for additional funds. Finally, in view of the fact that the adoption of the Constitution of the Union and other binding acts of the Union, which also includes the Postal Services Agreement, is a precondition for membership in that international organisation, for which the Republic of Croatia pays the amount set out in the General Regulation of the Union, and that Article 139 does so. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 18 The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts by the Croatian Parliament confirms international contracts that are financially binding on the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement, which gives full support to the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12238	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12239	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The World Postal Convention and the Final Protocol require the same confirmation by the Croatian Parliament. The same applies to the General Rules of the World Postal Union, as well as the other two documents. This procedure is a regular procedure to be implemented by each Member State of the World Postal Union, so the HSS Club will support the proposed documents. The World Postal Union became a specialized institution of the United Nations in 1948, and as we have heard from previous exhibitions, 191 Member States are. By encouraging the continued development of efficient and accessible postal services, as well as their quality in order to facilitate communication amongsts of the world’s inhabitants, the Union’s continuing and continuous task is. The Republic of Croatia became a full member of the World Postal Union in 1992 by laying down Union accession papers and basic Union acts. The Republic of Croatia has also participated in the work of the Congress of the World Postal Union, which has so far signed several additional protocols with the Constitution of the Union, more specifically the 5th, 6th and 7th Protocol, which complements certain provisions of the Constitution. The adoption of these four laws confirms international contracts and determines the central authority of the state administration for the implementation of the proposed laws and determines that the data on the entry into force of each of these contracts will be published in accordance with the Law on the conclusion of international contracts. And let me say a few sentences about each of the proposed documents since it's a united debate. So here are a few of our views regarding the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 5th, 6th and 7th Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, with the final proposal of the Law. We see here that it is common that the Constitution is a basic act, as is the case with each arrangement, and so is the Constitution in the World Postal Union. The Constitution shall be adopted at the Union Congress as well as its amendments and additions and shall contain the basic rules of the Union. The Republic of Croatia accepted the Constitution and additional protocols from the Constitution on 20 July 1992. For the first time, the Republic of Croatia as a sovereign state and a member of the Union participates in the congress on 14 September 2004. In accordance with the Constitution of the Union, the Republic of Croatia is a signatories of the Constitution of the Union and of additional protocols, and it is necessary to ratify them in the Croatian Parliament in order to bring them into force. In addition to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the General Rules of the World Postal Union, we present several of our opinions. This opinion is our opinion that the rules of the World Postal Union contain provisions that ensure the application of the Constitution and the functioning of the Union and in particular regulate the calling of Congress, regulate the choice of officials, the composition and work of the working bodies of Congress, as well as other provisions relating to the functioning of the Union. Here we must point out that the financial resources are planned to pay the annual contribution that are planned in the state budget, that they are somewhere worth 200 thousand kuna, given that it is the rules which determine the contribution per unit of 42 thousand 120 Swiss francs. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement, with the final proposal for a Law, we believe that this Agreement regulates postal and financial services, such as postal instructions, buy-in instructions and receipts from an account. If the postal administration does not provide financial services, or if the quality does not meet the requirements of the user, the postal administrations may cooperate with non-postal organisations in a given country. Other financial services may be provided on the basis of multilateral agreements between two or more postal administrations. This Postal Payment Services Agreement was adopted and signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia at Congress in 2004, and is hereby confirmed by this proposed law. As regards the Proposal for a Law confirming the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, the World Postal Convention is binding on the Member States of the World Postal Union and its adoption is a prerequisite for membership in the Union. The provisions of the Convention shall also apply to all international postal services, as well as to provisions relating to consignment services and postal packages. The new conventions shall be adopted at each Union congress which shall remain in force until the start of the application of the new Convention adopted at the next Union Congress. This Convention with the Final Protocol was adopted at the Bucharest Congress and has been in force since 1 January 2006. The HSS Club advocates the application of these proposed documents and supports the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12240	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12241	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although there is no need for God to speak of these bill proposals, I wanted only to highlight the importance of entering one such organization, or ratifying these protocols. The World Postal Union was founded here in 1874, so 134 years. Thank God, we were admitted to the Union in '92. So, somewhere around 120 years ago, it took us, as an independent and sovereign state, to enter one of these organizations. And I think this is one of the oldest, if not perhaps the oldest organization in the world. And that's why one great happiness and gratitude is that we too are part of this heritage. These protocols, of course, an old one, I would say, are an old organization and is well balanced, way and functioning within the Union itself, where both payment services are prescribed and postal services, where it is said about the freedom of transit of postal services, the authorities are hoping for shipments of postal, also the role and meaning of postage stamps, but also to follow the modern lifestyle, and it is also about e-mail, which, of course, was not 130 years ago, and it is also about the prescribed reception of radioactive and biological substances, also about the responsibility of postal administrations. And since these protocols of the bill are in that take or leave, so at this stage they can't change, so I don't see much reason to change anything here. Therefore, if I do not repeat what my colleagues have said and what it says here, there is no reason to enter these details, it is also necessary to ratify and accept these laws as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12242	Thank you. That's what ended the discussion and the individual. And I call on the government's representative, the respected Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to take a final look around.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12243	Thank you, Vice President. So let's sum this up briefly by joining four points. You are presented with 4 acts 5, 6 and 7 of the Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, and the World Postal Convention, the Final Protocol, the General Law of the World Postal Union and the Postal Payment Services Agreement. In the final word, I will also answer the question asked in the debate. According to the International Post Office of the World Post Office of 27 February this year, Croatia should be the 30th country to ratify these acts that were adopted in 2004. So, in the process of adopting acts of the World Postal Union, there are extensive processes and they are visible in others, and not only in our country, and that would completely avoid the suspicion that you, the esteemed representative, said in your debate, which is to be considered a national postal operator. Therefore, Croatia should be the 30th country to ratify all these agreements, and Croatia is also a country that has accepted a note from the Japanese Embassy, to speed up the process of adopting the World Postal Union act, so that these processes, after their adoption at the level of the World Postal Union, are also speeded up in national legislative systems. What might be important to say here in the final word at the last point is we're bound to gastritis, this is something perhaps more beautiful. The summer is coming, so it's nice to give someone a postcard, because you know how nice it is to receive a letter. Today we are witnessing another way of communication, often forgetting that classic way of writing shipments, love letters, or vacation postcards. However, the participation of mail in the global market is not on the way, but perhaps in front of the judiciary of new types of communication, especially Internet trade, post office, private or national postal operators become almost the only way to get those goods purchased somewhere from their home, so from their home to us. So here and these acts also cover new types of new services that are being opened in front of postal operators. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12244	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12245	Sixteenth, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol was an emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 104. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was unanimously passed with 95 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12294	And we're going to discuss it further. Points 13 and 14 do not have the conditions for today's debate, because there is no applicant for health reasons, so we move to point 15, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reconstruction in the Development of the City of Vukovar, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 105 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. The report you received at the meeting of the Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stanko Janic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12295	Dear Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, I would like to introduce in the novel Lava Tolstoy "Haji Murat" the young Checanac speaks in front of the village elder and he says, "The rope is good when it is long and the speech is short." And I'm gonna try that style to get you, to get you into this law. This proposal for a law that is before you brings tax exemptions into line with the acquis of the European Union or the Commission Regulation of 15 December 2006 on the application of Articles 87 and 88. The Treaty on European Community on Small Value Support. As you have heard, the harmonisation of these tax reliefs represents the fulfillment of one of the criteria for negotiating Chapter 8 of the competition. On the basis of the State aid Act and the State Aid Regulation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the rules laid down in the said Commission Regulation of the European Community and by a decision published in the National Journal of 45/2007. She's accepted those attitudes. Small-value support means that the total small-value support granted to any individual entrepreneur may not exceed EUR 200 000 during any period of 3 fiscal years in continuity or total small-value support granted to any individual undertaking in the road transport sector may be said to be EUR 100 000. These ceilings shall apply regardless of the support of the small value or the objective to be achieved and shall be financed independently by or granted by the State or unit of local or regional self-government. Proposals and additions to the law were made following the published technical consultations in Brussels on 6 June this year with a representative of the main competition administration and the main enlargement administration in the European Commission. The Competition Protection Agency has made a positive statement of the preliminary binding opinion on the compliance of these laws with the State Aid Act. These support still have their own needs, I will only list one possible reason, and it says that the total investment investment by entrepreneurs in the city of Vukovar, and so is both in the area of mountain and mountainous areas and in the overall area of special state care is always greater than the profits shown. So for 2006 profits were shown before tax on 4 billion and 146 thousand kuna, and investments were 6 billion and 866 million, which means that entrepreneurs used all their profits and above that for further investment and further development of employment. According to the legal gains of the European Union, this type of support is the so-called operational support shall not be permitted and in exceptional cases, if permitted, shall be degressive, time-limited and selective. On this basis, a proposal for support for the area of the city of Vukovar, for mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of special state concern for different amounts and different durations of time has been drawn up. Since the city of Vukovar has the status of the first group of areas of special state care and since the level of regional development is proposed, taxpayers carrying out activities in the city of Vukovar and meeting the requirement of the number of employees to keep the tax relief for certain periods of time but up to an amount of EUR 200 000 and EUR 100 000 respectively in road transport. In this solution, it is proposed to gradually reduce this over the next 9 years every 3 years by 1 level. And like... that I do not repeat this as determined between 2008 and 2010 and from 2010 to 2013 and from 2013 to 2016 when only 2017 would taxpayers pay a profit tax at the rate of the prescribed applicable tax rate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This system excludes taxpayers who carry out the activities of agriculture and fisheries, since the State aid Act does not apply to these activities. They are therefore exempt from paying taxes on profits, but only until the entry into the European Union until the entry into the European Union, since the European Union’s rules on agriculture apply to the Republic of Croatia. In order to comply with the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar with the legal acquis of the European Union in the section relating to customs relief, this law amends Article 22 relating to the customs advantage. Article 22 provides that the exemption from customs duty on imports of initial equipment for the reconstruction and development of economic operators based in the city of Vukovar is continued but this proposal will be valid again until the European Community, Croatia, enters the European Union. Furthermore, the current law contains certain nomotechnical changes in accordance with the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. These types of support are only one of the forms of support used in, in the area of special state care and in the city of Vukovar, and these support are found in both the City of Vukovar Fund Act and then in the ministries of economic, agricultural, tourism and these applications, which are now related to a very small number of users. Namely for those users who will gain more than 10 million kuna or 30 million kuna in 3 years. They will be partly covered by this amendment and the addition of the law. Here's so much in the introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12296	Thank you. Would the Committee’s rapporteur like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. Remarkable, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12297	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The harmonisation of the Law on Reconstruction, the development of the city of Vukovar with the property of the European Union is based on amendments to two envisaged, encouraging rights and from the area of taxation of profits and customs privileges for imports of initial equipment. The amendments are expected to remove taxes on profits by 2016, abolish customs privileges from the date of entry into the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal to amend the law on the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar regulates the scalable reduction of the benefit of the return on profits starting from 2011 until the final abolition of the advantage 1.1.2017. Just lifting the benefits and setting the deadline by 2017 is not controversial. How unfavourable the deadline of the first step of the process is set for 1.1.2011. Attraction of investments in the city of Vukovar was not until this year 2008, due to the institutionalisation of the area foreseen for economic industrial activity, and one of the reasons for such an effect is certainly more appropriate to promote the advantages offered by the city of Vukovar by the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. The implementation of the announced investment ventures is foreseen from autumn 2008 to summer 2010 and depends on the complexity of investment and the complexity of the production process itself. In any event, it can be concluded from that point of view that most investors will not be able to benefit from the benefits that have attracted them to their business in the city of Vukovar. Investments are estimated at 40m to 50m euros in the economic zone, and potentially more if initial investments prove profitable. In which case most investors show a strong interest in the expansion of both production programmes and general business in their short-term development plans for the entities to be located in the city of Vukovar. In view of the above, a different time schedule for the removal of benefits can be justified as a necessity, in such a way as to extend the period of exemption from the obligation until the end of 2012, and to introduce a payment of 50% of the commitment until 2014 and finally to the payment of 75% of the obligation by 2017. That amendment would provide sufficient incentives for investors to maintain and further develop their business in the city of Vukovar. Additional reasons for such a request can also be found in investment cycles that are ongoing in other companies, with the aim of starting production lines in the former economic operators of space. The realisation of the same means is needed, as it is most often about investments in rebuilding and equipping crashed and robbed plants. This Regulation shall enter The final proposal to amend the law on the renewal and development of the city of Vukovar states that the customs privileges set out in Article 22 of the Law cease to apply on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. By abolishing customs privileges, the adjustment to be made by entering the European Union abolishes the customs system of each other according to other members of the Union and introduces a common system towards non-members. The logic of the provision is also likely to assume that future procurement of equipment will not, to a greater extent, be directed towards non-member country suppliers or that such practice should certainly not be encouraged, and the additional reason is certainly the poor use of this provision during the application of the law. The weaknesses in law enforcement are related to the weaknesses of the town of Vukovar itself and the inability to attract larger investors on its own have conditioned a weaker application of this provision. Addressing infrastructure problems and establishing a space for economic activities primarily through the establishment of Vukovar economic zone d.o.o. The city of Vukovar has entered the first satisfactory investment cycle in which a significant amount of capital is expected to be attracted to the local economy. The amount of investment is estimated over the next three years as I have already said from 40m to 50m euros. Given that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is expected in 2010 and leaves insufficient time for potential investors to benefit from this provision. It is therefore necessary to consider replacing the benefits offered by this provision by a measure of the same effect which would compensate, after entering the European Union, for the stimulating effects of those customs benefits over a certain period of time. Although those measures are not fully in line with the European Union's practice of measures which should not distort the free market and which should not give a competitive advantage to the special position of the city of Vukovar as a war of a broken space with significant economic, social, labour and demographic problems and limitations, it provides sufficient reasons for the European Union to find a solution for the preservation of certain rights in order to achieve a satisfactory level of development of the city of Vukovar, in line with the provisions of the European Union itself in uniform development. I must say, it has been an extraordinary honor for me to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club about the city of the victim and the city of the hero I come from. In the defensive Homeland War, the city of Vukovar was 85% destroyed and levelled with a country of great Serb aggression. The Vukovar economy has been completely destroyed. I will mention the largest giant tires and shoes “Borovo” with 22,000 employees before the war normally with a trade network. The war damage to the pines is 300m euros. The “Vukovar” port, which is still at the top of the load load today, was completely destroyed. Velepromet “Vupik”, city companies also. Today, with the help of the Croatian government and the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Vukovar "Borovo" there are 1200 employees, and the Croatian Government opened the possibility that "Borovo" could open two new plants, one in rubber-technical goods, and the other in footwear with 300 to 500 new jobs. The government invested in “Borovo” 86 million kunas and completed money. The Croatian government also renovated the port "Vukovar" and "Vupik", equipped utility companies with machines and equipment. The "Vupik" now has 800 employees. The city's Komunalac, water and Tehnostan companies employ about 450 employees in total. Port “Vukovar” 80, big traffic 130. It was this law that gave wind to the back of the Vukovar economy and the economic zones. By observing the economy of the city of Vukovar over the past 2 years, the following is visible. By 2007, it was very intensive to rebuild the housing fund, infrastructure and return of people. The reconstruction of the infrastructure is near-end, the return of the population is near-end, with the opening of the Lavoslav Ružička Velučina resort, the conditions for education of the necessary staff, the establishment of the Vukovar Economic Zone d.o.o. a given area for industrial development and greater concern for the quality of investment capital attracts. During the current year 2008, there was also a capitalised attraction planned from 40m to 50m euros, investment in industrial production, and only in the area of Vukovar zone d.o.o. The realisation of these economic investments is foreseen from 2008 to 2011. I must say, they often ask us why you came back to Vukovar? We're back in Vukovar right now and we're raising the city and the city's economy from the ashes precisely because of those three thousand murdered friends and defenders who gave us the city in stock. I have to mention the less than 500 people we're looking for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12298	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12299	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. On 3 May 2001, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, which it added in 2005. The first article of the law pointed out that the restoration and development of Vukovar is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar established encouraging measures to facilitate and accelerate the removal of the consequences of the Homeland War during which Vukovar was completely destroyed. It also states exactly what the incentive measures apply to. These are war-broken buildings, demining, return of exiles and refugees, employment and creation of new jobs, the introduction of information technologies in all activities, technical and technological modernisation, education and training for new knowledge and skills, the development of entrepreneurship, prevention of environmental incidents, and the removal of ruins and recycling of construction waste, and particularly the concern of the protection and preservation of cultural goods. The funding sources are also indicated in the form of capital transfers from the state budget, loans, donations and similar sources. Other measures provided for in the law are the exemption from customs duty on imports of initial equipment needed to carry out economic activities, refunding the costs of contributions to pension and health insurance, scholarship of students, the possibility of renting immovable property in state property, money support for the cost of living and housing, the allocation of building land, etc. The measures focus on different issues. Some focus on deficits, others focus on Vukovar-Srijem County as a whole, while some encourage the development of crafts, cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies. The law also set out advice for the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar, which was implemented by the then Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction. The law also envisioned the establishment of the Vukovar City Reconstruction and Development Fund as an executive agency with its own legal personality that began at the end of January 2002. The Vukovar City Reconstruction and Development Fund shall carry out a wide range of development activities such as the approval of loans and their investment in the economy and municipal infrastructure, professional information and investor advice, assistance in the development of project documentation, cooperation with other relevant public bodies and so on. One of the more significant fiscal support for economic operators operating in the city of Vukovar, especially when hiring persons resident in the Vukovar area is a relief in the payment of profit tax. The application of this relief has proved justified since a constant increase in the effect of its use is recorded. Since the law was passed, the number of users using the tax relief has been steadily increasing with small fluctuations. From 25 users in 2001, over 27 in 2002, 37 in 2003, 34 in 2004, 35 in 2005 to 60 users in 2006. At the same time, the amount of tax relief had even more pronounced growth. From €5.5 million in 2001 over 6.5 in 2002, 10 million in 2003, 13 million in 2004, 19.6 million in 2005 to €37.3 million in 2006. Since the main objectives of the introduction are to facilitate the development and increase of the number of employees that should ultimately bring about a number of other positive effects, such as stronger economic activity and more tax revenues. It is also important to refer to employment data in the analysis of the relief effects. According to the Croatian Institute for Employment of the University of Vukovar, the annual number of unemployed persons residing in the Vukovar area, so the persons covered by this law during the period 2003 to 2006 were continuously in a slight decline. From 3 thousand 471 people in 2003 to 3 thousand 433 people in 2004, 3 thousand 336 in 2005 to 3 thousand 156 unemployed people in 2006. Here, too, it is difficult to see how much the share of unemployment is related to the entities that used tax reliefs and how much is waste on the other entities. But this indicator is also evident. As indicated in the working material, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar bring tax reliefs into line in the payment of profit tax with the legal property of the European Union. In doing so, the status of the city of Vukovar is still respected as areas of special state concern and special interest for the Republic of Croatia and it is proposed to maintain those tax reliefs during the nine-year period, but with a gradual reduction of relief over three three-year periods. This would include taxpayers in the 2008 period. until 2010 and beyond, they were exempt from paying taxes on profits. In order to reduce this relief by 25% between 2011 and 2013, and to reduce the additional 75% in 2014 to 2016 after the end of that nine-year period, taxpayers continue to pay the profit tax at the rate of the applicable tax rate. It is also prescribed that on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union customs privileges in the import of initial equipment for the reconstruction and development of economic operators based in the city of Vukovar shall cease to apply. Since all of these support and reliefs have been introduced with the aim of helping to develop the city of Vukovar, any reduction or elimination of some of them is received with certain discomfort, I would also say fear, and so is this time. Respecting the fact that the state of development of the city of Vukovar is still such that it lags significantly behind the backdrop of the Republic of Croatia, and this also applies to the entire Vukovar-Srijem County and that the particular segment of economic development is insufficient. I believe that the proposed amendments and additions will not be positively accepted by economic operators, i.e. entrepreneurs. I therefore expect that through others, but also some new support, the negative effects of the proposed reduction will be reduced. However, since it is a matter of harmonising the law with the acquis of the European Union, I consider that the proposal should be accepted with a stressed re-imposed commitment to continue, especially in the town of Vukovar, by encouraging the development of Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12300	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12301	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, the Secretary of State. The essence of this law is also this Article 30.b on page 4 which everyone before me has more or less quoted, so the taxpayers of the profit tax that carry out activities in the city of Vukovar than agriculture and fishing activities and employ more than five employees in a working relationship with an indefinite period where more than 50% of employees have residence and residence in the area of the city of Vukovar or mountainous area or the area of special state care, pay taxes on profits and, as follows, do not pay taxes on profits in the period from 2008-2010. pays 25% of the prescribed tax rate in 2011-2013, or pays 75% of the prescribed tax rate in the period from 2014-2016, means a final quote or rather, so reads this Article 9). So far as is known, entrepreneurs have been paying taxes on profits, we see from this Article 30a were released within 10 years of the application of this law. On the other hand, as we can see in this text, the legislator is calling for Europe, but I am asking myself what the European Union has to do with the city of Vukovar. Why does this law even have to wear that P.Z.E. label? True, the European Union, the United States, etc. They did not prevent war in the area of the city of Vukovar or the Republic of Croatia, but the European Union does not clearly have a city from 90th to 95th when it comes to Vukovar until 97th, which means that it passed the Calvary of the Croatian city. Because if the European Union had such a city in its own form, they would certainly not propose to reduce certain rights as the legislator does in this legislative proposal. Vukovar is as much of the budget as it comes from raising the city, the quality of life in that city, and that's fine, because as Mr. Mlinarić said before, 85% of that work was destroyed in 91 years, but Vukovar is still an economic one, I dare say, the most passive Croatian landscapes. I personally believe that this city should be helped by the very laws on the restoration and development of the city of Vukovar, not by this law that we are discussing but by the law of 2001. So the law which was intended to free the entrepreneur from paying the income tax, that local self-government has a dominant role in the distribution of income tax and income tax, to strengthen its financial capacity, that even without begging in Zagreb, there is something that can do and that finally stimulates investors in free zones or in free zones, although again, for a completely unknown reason, the new law on free zones also took place limiting existing rights, which we as a country seem inconclusive, I dare say false. First we call on someone to come with sweet words, to come to invest in Croatia and then when they invest, we jump to the changes to the existing laws, etc. What am I saying? Vukovar, meaning this central site of Croatia's death deserves a special status. I don't think there's anyone here who's against it, and it really shouldn't be disputed, because I'm convinced that these laws, or the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the city of Vukovar, were unanimously passed in 2001 and 2005. Dispute is next. Why, at this point, they are diminishing certain under quotes, entrepreneurial rights in the city of Vukovar. Whoever wants to invest, he needs to know about the conditions that will rule in one medium term, not to say one period of, say, ten years in advance. It's supposed to be some kind of thing. You can't change these rules in walking especially where we have an international element, for example. in free zones. If we do so, it is an unserious behavior and such a country has simply grown up in its actions. Finally, I am sure that Europe could agree and agree to an exception when it comes to the city of Vukovar. But that Europe is also to be explained by what the city of Vukovar is and how the city suffered there in '91. A year. So, it is necessary to try, to remember or remind them, how dearly they are, what this city has been through, so, if necessary, and what role the European Union played in Vukovar in '91. years, and I dare say that's their role in '91. in those places was superficial, modest, lest I use the word shameful. So here it is because of these reasons that certain rights are being reduced, for me this law is unacceptable. Today it's Vukovar, I dare say, far more necessary engagement of individuals means entrepreneurs than a budget donation. It is clear that a donation from the budget is also needed, but this entrepreneurial activity is also needed to employ people who live in those premises or who return to those premises. Clearly, once again, there is a need for reconstruction, but the same is the case with renovations, and clearly there must be no discrimination by nationality. But the behavior of that private capital again is difficult to influence. So I'm thinking that the special status of the town of Vukovar belongs, that the special status of the city of Vukovar must be maintained and must be maintained for a longer period of time. The Vukovar is integrated, so to speak, into the legal order of this country there in '97. the year, and these measures that we are talking about today will be valid until 2016. So it's about measures that should be worth 16 years or since today about 7 and a half more years. Okay, someone's gonna say it's one significant period, but for a city that's almost up to the ground would knock it down for sure isn't enough period. It may be fair to admit that 16 years or 20 years would be a prudent period for a Great Britain, for one Germany, for one France, for their financial potential, but clearly not underestimating our people, bearing in mind the loss of Vukovar, I think that the existing status or existing provisions should be maintained permanently. Why? Vukovar is the centre of a county, it must in some way raise or withdraw the development of the eastern Republic of Croatia, it must return people and perhaps from the Croatian coast or from Zagreb, which I do not believe in, but also from Serbia, which I also do not believe, especially while in this country at Thompson's concerts, "Kill, kill a Serb". Vukovar must withdraw technology, but for all these are the most important people, that is why entrepreneurs are important, and therefore they do not need to be reduced rights through one of these laws or the one about free zones. I'll do it again, I'll be against one of these, in my court of law, a bad, a court-of-law, a sleazy law to the European Union. Gentlemen of the Government, in the Ministry go to Brussels, Strasbourg, Luxembourg, Rome, Prague, Madrid, explain to the world the truth about Vukovar. When you do, then we can also talk about reducing certain rights, and until then don't touch the existing law whose financial effect in 2005 was 19.6 million kuna. A year ago, 13.6 million kuna, 2003, only 10 million kuna. So it's moving for the better, but today we can talk about one financial contribution of only 30 million kuna and one budget of 20 or 30 million kuna. Either the equivalent of 3 or 4 million euros is such that these funds will not ruin either Croatia or the European Union and should therefore be at least abstentioned to this law. This law on the other hand, when we look at Article 2 as being written for Mr. Cobankovic. This is about gender, meaning Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, while elsewhere it is about mayoral mayor, mayor of the city of Vukovar, so I think that one norm should change as well. But it should also be good not to discuss this Free Zones Act, to say that Croatia and one of such significant ones is located in the town of Vukovar, so it should be said that Croatia cannot sign long-term contracts for 15 to 20 years to attract and direct capital to certain zones. So, Croatia can't tell someone from the world come, invest, you'll have at least 20 or 25 years of a certain relief in profit tax, and then here's the law that makes these reliefs go away, changes, etc., etc. That's true. In Croatian free zones, 350 of these investors are so far, so that the law is existing and perhaps the Croatian economy is not as attractive as we have a positive view of ourselves, and I'm afraid that the height of this gross social product in the country and in our environment this interest in investing in these areas will also decline in the future. What am I saying? Investors have completed certain investments in these areas and already at the beginning of the economic cycle the state tells them, now we're going to change your terms and we're going to reduce your rights. What we promised you was one of our jokes. But, gentlemen, it's simply not state policy, so we tricked investors. It's not fair, it's not perspective and I think it's not or such a policy is not even wise. And that I am right to testify to a whole series of interventions of people from individual zones who object to such proposed legal solutions. To end, very simply, my proposal would be to honor the contracts for these existing zones, for those future 'let's go by the new rules, let's go by this European regulation, but for the existing areas of solutions that we have offered to investors, we must respect. And what else to say, I don't know if I have time. I think that when it comes to these standards, even the foreign inspectorate doesn't understand how they operate these free zones, it shows one complete ignorance of the functioning of those zones, because the mass of free zones is that the goods freely change the owner, and customs and taxes are paid after leaving it, and now for each such trade should run accounting and pay taxes, and the goods...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12302	It's time to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12303	And I don't think it's just that kind of practice that's good. So, at least we will be abstentioned, to this Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, because he felt that the City of Vukovar deserved this special status, as they had regulated and knew existing legal solutions so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12304	Thank you. In addition, if the City of Vukovar only developed on that law, it would be bad. However, with all the other incentives, I think the situation is good for now. We're going to an individual debate. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12305	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The harmonisation of the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar with the legal property of the European Union is based on amendments to the 2 envisaged incentive rights, in the area of taxation of profits, and on customs privileges for imports of initial equipment. The amendments are expected to remove the return on profits by 2016 and to abolish customs privileges from the date of entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal to amend the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar regulates a scalable reduction in the benefit of return on profits, starting from 2011, until the final abolition of the advantage from 1.01.2017. Only the removal of the privilege and the set deadline by 2017 is not disputed if the deadline of the first step of the process set for 1.01.2011 is unfavourable. Attraction of investments in the City of Vukovar, only this year 2008, has seen a higher rise due to the institutionalisation of the area foreseen for economic industrial action, and one of the reasons for such impact is certainly more appropriate to move the advantages of business in the City of Vukovar based on incentives and the Law in areas of special state concern and the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. The implementation of announced investment ventures is foreseen from autumn 2008 to summer 2011 and depends on the complexity of investment and demand of the production process itself. From that point of view, it can certainly be concluded that most investors will not be able to benefit from the benefit, which attracted them to business in the City of Vukovar. Attraction of investments is estimated at between 40 and 50 million euros in the economic zone, and potentially more if initial investments are shown to be profitable in which case most investors show a strong interest in cashing out production programmes and general business in their short-term development plans for entities located in the City of Vukovar area. In view of the above, a different time schedule for the removal of benefits can be justified as a necessity, in such a way as to extend the period of exemption from the obligation until the end of 2013, and then to apply the delayed scale in law by 2020. That amendment would provide sufficient incentives for investors to maintain and further develop their business in the City of Vukovar area. Additional reasons for such a request can also be found in investment cycles, which are ongoing in other companies, with the aim of starting production lines in the former economic operators of space. The realisation of the same means is needed, since it is mostly about investments in reconstruction and equipment of crashed and robbed plants. This Regulation shall enter Finally, the proposal to amend the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar states that the customs privileges set out in Article 22 of the Law shall cease to apply on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. By abolishing customs privileges, the adjustment to be made by entering the European Union abolishes the customs system of each other according to other members of the Union and introduces a common system towards non-members. The logic of the provision is also likely to assume that future procurement of equipment will not, to a greater extent, be referred to suppliers from non-member countries or that such practice should certainly not be encouraged, and the additional reason is certainly poor use of this provision during the application of the law. The weakness of law enforcement, related to the weaknesses of the City of Vukovar itself and the inability to attract larger investors on its own, conditioned a weaker application of this provision. By solving infrastructure problems and setting up a space for economic activities, primarily by establishing Vukovar economic zone d.o.o., the City of Vukovar entered the first satisfactory cycle in which a significant amount of capital is expected to be attracted to the local economy. Investments are estimated over the next 3 years, as I said at 40m to 50m euros. Given that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is expected in 2010, and to potential investors not enough time to take advantage of the benefits of this Regulation. It is therefore necessary to consider replacing the benefits offered by this provision by a measure of the same effect which would compensate, after entering the European Union, for the stimulating effects of those customs benefits over a certain period of time. Although those measures are not fully in line with the European Union's practice of measures which must not distort the free market and which must not give a competitive advantage. The special position of the city of Vukovar as a war of a destroyed space with significant economic, social, labour and demographic problems and limitations provides sufficient reason to find a solution for the preservation of certain rights to achieve a satisfactory level of development of the city of Vukovar in accordance with the provisions of the European Union on uniform development and cohesion of the entire European area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12306	Thank you. In an individual debate, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12307	Thank you. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretarys, this law lays down encouraging measures for the accelerated reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar, which has the status of the first group of areas of special state care, and the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. This law shall also be adopted in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union and the provisions of Article 22 have been fully adopted. Law on profit tax for taxpayers carrying out activities in the city of Vukovar. Since tax reliefs must be justified for entrepreneurs in the European Union, the government has proposed to amend the law on the renewal of Vukovar, which will gradually be reduced to completely abolished by entrepreneurs in the city since 2017. Vukovar entrepreneurs, as so far, will not pay that tax at all by 2010. From 2011 to 2013 they will pay 25%. From 2014 to 2016 75% of the prescribed rate, and since 2017 full tax on profits. According to the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar and the Regulation on the Use of Customs Privileges in the Import of Initial Equipment for the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, imports of initial equipment required as a condition of optimal implementation of the economic activities of legal and physical persons registered in the city of Vukovar and of social activities shall not be paid customs duties. According to the Income Tax Act and the Income Tax Regulation, income taxpayers who carry out activities in the City of Vukovar and employ more than 2 workers on a working basis for an indefinite period where more than 50% of workers have residence and stay in specific state care areas for at least 9 months in the tax period have been exempt from income tax 10 years from the date of application of this law and thereafter their income tax is reduced by 75%. Students residing in the city of Vukovar also have the right to grant a scholarship according to the plan for the job needs of the town of Vukovar, which produces the Croatian Employment Service, provided that after the end of their studies and work in the city of Vukovar, at least twice the time for which they received the scholarship. To all employers who employ high-end trainees, the city of Vukovar pays three thousand kuna per month per employee for the first year as an incentive for the employment of higher education staff. The persons of certain professions and occupations whose work is particularly demonstrated by the need in the area of the town of Vukovar according to the information provided by the Croatian Employment Service, which have not solved the relevant housing issue, can be rented an apartment or family house owned by the Republic of Croatia in the area of the town of Vukovar. The Vukovar City Reconstruction and Development Fund can finance both the construction of the plant and the purchase of equipment for Vukovar employers up to 20% of the investment and up to 750 thousand kuna. I agree with my colleague Mlinarić that it is necessary to find solutions that will find a way to stimulate entrepreneurs and investors in Vukovar and after Croatia enters the European Union. Every investment and every open job in Vukovar has a special place in view of the level of war destruction, the loss of Vukovar and Vukovar must not remain just a symbol of the death in the Homeland War but must be a city that will be equal to the rest of the cities in the Republic of Croatia. Vukovar deserves it. I therefore expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue to rebuild the destroyed infrastructure but in the coming years there should be more and more resources in the state budget to achieve the most important projects for Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County. I hope that these projects will be supported in this Croatian Assembly by all parliamentary representatives because I am sure that Vukovar as a city deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12308	Thank you. And now the esteemed representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12309	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I answered because I mean, I feel like I need to talk a little bit about Vukovar. One view from Dalmatia, not from the direct space of Vukovar, an environment that feels all these problems but perhaps one look on the side as on the chess board reveals some new things. Of course, the law we are discussing aims to stimulate the economy of a single space that has been completely devastated by war, and I can agree in the debate whether this is a reduction of that potential or not, but seeing Vukovar 4 years ago, seeing Vukovar this year, I have seen important changes in Vukovar. Something that gives birth to one optimism regardless of what incentives are given because if Vukovar had once had its own spatial and geostrategic justification for its development, I believe that Vukovar will be able to develop it today and in the future. So at this point, it's only about incentives to get it all going as soon as possible. But speaking of the people who live in Vukovar, the first question arises about the conditions of their life in the first place: how to restore the space they once lived, return to what they had at least once had. Insurance of infrastructure and not only in terms of installations, but infrastructure as a social content complex, and then we talk about work, employment, encouraging entrepreneurs to create new jobs besides those that the state itself can. However, it seems to me that one segment of life is extremely important, which is not so much spoken of, but it seems worth mentioning. It's the value, the inner value of every single person's life. It is a matter of self-respect, self-respect, dignity and even the meaning of life in Vukovar, coming into a situation where Vukovar will no longer be an exception, in which Vukovar will not be spoken of as something special, but Vukovar who will set foot in his life forward as all other cities set foot. In that sense, you've past me when you told the vice president that there are other laws, and that's what I was going to say, that this is just something that gives certain incentives. But Vukovar is also opened with a number of other measures that the government and legislation generally make possible. Four years ago, when we were in Vukovar, we encountered a very desperate state, a condition that was nearer to that not indirectly after the war, but something that would have been said to represent this time. This year the situation is very different. This year there is a hotel, there are economic facilities already built. Life flows much more dynamicly than it was before. I believe that the new topics that occur in Vukovar through spatial planning and economic development, such as the new port, will bring a particularly big swing for the future life of Vukovar. By the way, I would like to agree with a colleague who said that in article 2, article 2 is written by the minister, not by the minister. I think it would be polite to use the same as the mayor and the mayor, the mayor, the mayor and the minister and the minister. But for the end of the day, maybe I should just mention something that comes out of my heart for this debate today of compliance with the acquis of the European Union. I'm going through the thought that before, certain behaviors were consistent with the European civilizational human general gain and tradition. Vukovar would certainly not be in today’s condition, or what happened to it, and would not now discuss a special law for Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12310	Thank you. And now it's the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Every time we talk about the law or some topic where we abolish some of the rights that have existed so far, we need to be careful especially when it comes to the area of action that is related to the city of Vukovar and which in some way helps to develop the economy of the city of Vukovar and in some ways strengthens and improves the whole situation that is happening in Vukovar. In 2001, we passed the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, where we defined that encouraging measures would be aimed at speeding up the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar, especially with regard to the following things – the war destroyed or damaged buildings, demining, the return of exiles and refugees, employment and the opening of new jobs and other things that are related to it. One of these measures was also an improvement, i.e. the development of entrepreneurship in the city of Vukovar, and it is certain that in this part the law and provided for some relief for entrepreneurs in order to make this entrepreneurship as much as possible and so let's say that the entrepreneurship climate is a little more suitable than in other parts of our country. What is seen from the proposal's text is some other analyses that have also contributed to the increase in the number of entrepreneurs in the city of Vukovar and the increase in the number of employees in the town of Vukovar. In 2002, for example, we had 192 companies registered, entrepreneurs registered in Vukovar. 2003. 220, 2004. 232, 2005. 248 and 2006 289 entrepreneurs registered in the city of Vukovar. All those companies' revenues have been moving since 2002. 1.23 billion by 2006. 2.45 billion kuna, which speaks enough about the development of entrepreneurship in those years and the adoption of this law in 2001. The employee's salary was 11,000 kuna in 2002, while last year, two years ago in 2006 it was 42000 kuna. Unfortunately, wages did not grow at that rate and grew on average from 2002. In 2006, 2700 kunas, which says that even though companies were founded, entrepreneurship developed by employees did not benefit so much from the development of these companies, or wages did not follow the profits of companies that were made within that period. Unemployment fell and now in Vukovar is about 21% more than the average in Croatia and in that county there is only one place that seems to me to have more unemployment, which says that the economy in Vukovar is still in a very bad position and is very unemployed and people do not have a simple opportunity to work and live with dignity from their work. And when we look at all this data it is clear that it is bad when we have to change this law in this sense, that is, when some privileges that in some way are entrepreneurs and motivated them to open up their companies in Vukovar will not now have those privileges, or they will not be able to say that they will have a greater advantage if they open a company in Vukovar, but anywhere else in Croatia. What I would like to say is that when I look at a little bit of this data and I look at what your tax relief amounts have been achieved over all these years, it is evident that the number of companies that have and used it does not differ significantly. So we have 38 entrepreneurs in 2003 and 2005. 35 entrepreneurs who say whatever new companies in Vukovar were founded or were not companies that had more than 5 employees or were not companies that made a profit. Thus, this benefit, i.e. the tax advantage, exclusively benefited employers, and they seem to have made a 6 million-dollar relief in 2002 and 2005 as much as 20 million kunas, which suggests that the profits have been raised because potential investments in previous years have paid off. And now I'm asking a simple question. Since we are already taking this relief from this law and we are saying that this is a alignment with the acquis of the European Union, is it possible for the Government to leave that part of the money, since it is now the state's income, to put those 20 million kunas into the budget next year for additional projects in the city of Vukovar? Especially when we look at the fact that by 2006, part of the income tax on profits was in the domain, i.e. in the income of the local unit and the town of Vukovar, with this relief, lost its income by around 34 million kuna in the period until 2006. So perhaps the government could compensate for this deficit which, in some ways, would eliminate tax reliefs in 20 million kunas, could transfer these funds and help to help the city of Vukovar through certain incentives and economics in the city of Vukovar help. In the end, I'm aware that things in Vukovar, in my opinion, are going quite slowly. I have been in Vukovar a few times this year, I am very saddened to see that the city is still quite destroyed, that many buildings are not being renovated, yet I think that the city of Vukovar is the pride of Croatia and that the government should be more determined to stop through this fund and through certain donations to the city of Vukovar that the situation there, both infrastructureally and in terms of incentives for the economy as much as possible. On the other hand, even though I am aware that this law due to compliance with the acquis of the European Union in some way we must accept, I appeal to the government to be even more serious and to start to entertain the problem of the city of Vukovar and that in some way we no longer see those destroyed buildings for a year, to decontamination as many areas as possible from minefields so that we can then say that we have done everything we can for that heroic city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12312	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12313	Mr. Vice President, I would just like to say to an esteemed colleague who is very familiar with the situation in Vukovar, I would say that not everything that the government is investing in and giving to Vukovar that our half of the budget in various ways, in various aspects of our half budget, comes from the various funds that the government is up to, and in the other part, this part that we are going to lose here... The economics are already looking for a back-up option together in agreement with the Government that the reserve variant would not be what the European Union prescribes, but rather have some other funds in someone else who would be eligible, normally with legal acts, to bring Vukovar back to having all that and the Vukovar entrepreneurs all that they had so far, and perhaps even better to mention that in 4 years other than all these projects, the government has one project that will invest about half a billion euros somewhere and a few other projects smaller than that and we are simply constantly connected with the government and I think we can be satisfied with this investment, and the buildings you have seen are not restored, some of which have property-legal relations are not solved, some are protected, protection as cultural monuments, and that is a little slower going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we are fighting and we hope that Vukovar will come out with the help of all, all of Croatia and our government that has helped us so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12314	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12315	Thank you very much. Well, here's what you said in part I can accept that we're trying to try Vukovar in some way to help improve the situation there as much as possible. I think that the issue of these measures, on the other hand, of the incentives that the government can give to entrepreneurs, I think we should maybe invest more in infrastructure. If so, Vukovar is in a very good economic-strategic place. It can also be used by the river, it was a very rich area in some other times. I believe that more can be invested by the government in solving these infrastructure problems, so, and we will probably all agree here in the Parliament and we will all stand behind these incentives and support Vukovar and the development of the city, regardless of course political orientation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12316	Thank you. And distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12317	Hello, dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I must say is that Vukovar deserves a special place in Croatian society and a special place in Croatian history, and that is how it should be treated. I welcome all efforts aimed at restoring the infrastructure, the funds invested by the Government, and so on and some legal steps towards solving the fundamental problems in Vukovar. But Vukovar is still a city where there is great unemployment, Vukovar is still a city where people and people who work, work for small wages, work for small incomes, and there is no life, no development, and there is no restoration of Vukovar without the happiness of all people who live there, and that is what I would underline there and that is what I would apostrophe there. I am sorry that no business zone law came today, also here for this debate, and from the introduction to the very changes and additions of this law can be seen the following facts. The number of business entities in Vukovar in recent years despite all the efforts shown and in the way they are presented, this is seen in the opening statement. It's also a small number of tax relief users. It's the same thing that goes in favor of that thesis. The business zone of Vukovar, which is poorer than 13 business zones. In Croatia, it operates 15 free business zones, the business zone Vukovar, which is one of 13 zones has 20 business entities with only 123 employees. With only 123 employees. However, there is one thing I must say when we are related to harmonising with European regulations. In 2005, this Parliament adopted amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act, which envisioned the full release of investors in the Vukovar free zone from profit tax for 10 years. Today and tomorrow, or next week, we will discuss a bill that degresses this rate of tax exemption, meaning that it is being reduced and that is talking about harmonisation. That's what really worries, and that's what can trigger investors' great uncertainty. So the one who came to Vukovar in 2005 with the goal of staying there for 10 years without paying the profit tax, now, according to these amendments, will have to pay the profit tax at a certain rate, and already 25% since 2011, then 50% of 2014 etc. So the one who came and under these conditions came into the free zone, now these conditions would be somewhat retrograded, and that is in line with the standard practice that was and through a few laws that went through the procedure that actually what citizens have acquired in their current rights we are simply adjudicating and we say not from now on is worth a different mode of work and it can also see the very uncertainty of investors to even come into business zones. The next thing, when it comes to harmonising the Law on Free Zones, which is also said in the proposal for a legal text, that it is fully in line with the Investment Encouragement Act, then it should be noted that the Law on Encouragement of Investments to Support Small Value means that small value investments are totally contrary to the new Free Zone Law Proposal. We now have a case that the Law on Investment Encouragement writes that it is fully harmonised, and on the other hand, the Free Zones Act includes another type of taxation of profit tax and I now do not understand which law is in charge. In fact, it is quite unclear to me since I mentioned in the opening letter that this law is fully in line with the acquis of the European Union. And what needs to be said and said is what it looks like in the European Union. As for the free zones themselves and as regards the promotion of employment and investment in free zones, there are no such areas in the free zone, there are no free zones in the European Union as we have in Croatia, therefore specialising in the good part of trade, which carry out competitive activities but there are free zones, so to speak. export process in free zones or it is a free export production zone. So, in the European Union, only those free zones that contribute to exports are encouraged. Next thing. Where do free zones still exist in the European Union? They exist in countries, as most of the trade in goods and service exchanges within the European Union take place between the Member States themselves, so-called ‘EU’. free economic zones which are solely responsible for the exchange of goods and services between the Eastern countries and overseas countries in order to encourage investment by the same and that is one aspect of how it works in the European Union. What I have to say is that we won't attract foreign investment, that we won't attract domestic investment unless we leave this concept that is now in force, and the concept that is now in force is the concept so I can dare say that we don't know what we want to produce and we don't know where we're going in 5 to 10 years. In free zones now and throughout Croatia, and also in Vukovar come companies that are exempt from profit tax, and competition is for other companies that work in places that are not exempt from profit tax. So production activities within Croatia are competition itself. What should be had is an industrial development agency that should also be based on best European practices, statistics and investment opportunities in certain zones. In this way, the aim would be to bring in new production activities, thus the aim would be to develop a strategy and create a system in which the product will be finalised in the free zone. So we have cooperatives from a particular Vukovar area who produce certain raw materials and we do not want them to come into a free zone, so that they can be competitive with each other, but we want the product of their raw materials to be in that free zone so that this product can be competitive for export, and that's what we want to achieve. So, the level of clustering. Unfortunately, however, this will not be possible without the establishment of an industrial development agency or as the agency will already be called in line with best European practices. Because you out in Europe in developed countries support and subsidies is a program that actually doesn't exist, so I won't say it, but it exists in a very reduced way. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12318	Your Honor, I must warn you, you have come a little bit further away from the topic, a little closer to the topic and agenda, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. I understand you, but this is before the law that we're gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12319	Thank you. No, I'm just because it's in the area of the Vukovar free zone, it works 20% of business entities and only 123 people are employed and most of them work in the textile industry with a salary of 1.600,00 kuna. It was my duty to talk about it and it's actually what we need to do so that these people today 123 people who work in the business zone, and I hope tomorrow much more, do not work for 1.600,00 kuna but work for a decent man's salary. And that's what my debate is about. So my debate is an analysis of this situation and the need to find certain solutions. Well, since you warned me, here's where I'm going to end up, but I really hope that in the future, so in the near future I would say almost immediately, we have that concept of development defined because without that development, unfortunately, there is no shift. Unfortunately, there's no movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12320	Thank you. And I think this is a good debate that will come in handy just as we discuss the Free Zones Act. We also exhausted the individual debate. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. State Secretary, Reverend Stanko Janic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12321	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I am satisfied with this debate, because the fate of Vukovar will really not be problematic because we are all on the same side, wishing Vukovar and Vukovar to achieve the conditions of life and the planning of their development quality and speedily. I'm personally ashamed when I say we're planning something, that it's still underdeveloped in 2016. Let's be a little bit more aggressive, so let's say that's gonna stop in 2011, what he's saying, shoot at the moon, if you miss, you'll hit the stars. And these amendments and additions to this law apply to only one small segment of activities related to the development of the city of Vukovar. They are identical for all municipalities and cities in the area of special state care, which belong to Group 1, all of these cities, entrepreneurs in those cities of Group 1, and they are located from Vukovar via Pakrac to the lower Knin, are exempt from taxes. For the city of Vukovar, further laws on the development of the city of Vukovar and the renewal of additional measures that are not touched at all until the entry into the European Union have been added. But these are not the only laws, the only measures that contribute, in addition to what we have now, ahead of us is the achievement of IPA credentials for pre-accession funds that significantly enable the development of all areas that have suffered by war, especially the city of Vukovar, where huge resources are provided for the creation of business infrastructures in places that are destroyed or lagging behind in development. Also, significant grants for economic operators who will be able to contribute to the development of these areas through their investments and their knowledge and their risk in these areas. And just when we talk about it, I expect another more quality and affordable discussion with the ideas that will appear here. This was necessary to do. In the European Community, no such support is permitted, support for operations other than operating costs. We agreed with the negotiations to respect our difficulties and to be a time period and to be slightly reduced, but they substitute with other programmes, measures that will help the economy. Let me just say, in the city of Vukovar, seven subjects would be touched by this law, and these are entities that have seven million per employee. According to the Investment Encouragement Act, they can achieve greater profits than this taxation, free of profit tax. What encourages me was that in the introduction, I said that the total profit achieved in this area is less than what is invested. It means that the largest number of employers does not invest in expensive cars, but invests in their business to restore or strengthen that activity. And I just think that in the next activities, when a Regional Development Strategy is adopted that provides for specific measures for areas that have been affected by the war, for areas that are borderline to do so. I can't talk about free zones right now, and I respect thinking, I'm sure it will be when that point of the agenda, about that debate. Here I am asking you as representatives to vote this proposal, because it is in line with the acquis and does not touch many legal entities. It will come to debate and the Law on the area of special state care, which has the same inside support. Let me tell you, a total of 1200 legal entities in Croatia, business entities benefited from that. 1200 means all over Croatia. These measures would have touched 20 companies, including Croatia's forests, INA, Cavtat airport, Plitvice Lakes, etc., Vodavod,... companies which can, in other words, solve it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important in the coming stages is that strong economic operators use the Investment Encouragement Act, as it brings greater employment and greater normal development of these areas later on. The idea that part of the funds that are now to be returned to the budget because some will pay for the sureness of standing should be taken into account, because even under the Law on the financing of local administrations and self-government, part of these funds will be returned and those local communities will certainly make better use of it. It may also be directed towards those development agencies formed in those counties whose goal is to get these counties out of underdeveloped as soon as possible. Once upon a time, here I was sitting where Mr. MP Skoro sat, 30 years ago, there were always ideas... I didn't call you, I'm just saying I sat there 30 years ago as a councilman. I always wanted you to stay undeveloped for as long as possible, but to have money. To escape from underdevelopment, that's our goal. Here I am thanking you and I hope there will be a quality vote on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12322	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met for the vote on the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12323	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 105. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure. The amendment submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate in the government's amendment? Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by 84 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against. I'd like a representative of the government, Mr. Secretary of State Janic. Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12324	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The reasons for this amendment are the same as in the previous one, the text of the previous proposal and the text of the new amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12325	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose this amendment to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. Score. This amendment is accepted by 76 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 1 against. And we have amendments to the Legislative Committee to Article 8 of the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12326	The same, Mr. President. We accept all amendments to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12327	Three amendments to the Legislative Committee, all three are accepted. Thank you very much. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was adopted by the majority of votes, 90 votes for and 1 abstention, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12328	We move to point 16, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, with a final bill of law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 106 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12329	Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12330	Yeah. Dear Stanko Janic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12331	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, the opening exhibition is identical. What is characteristic here, this law was also scheduled to last until 2011 and here it is proposed to last until 2011, to remain the same level of support, only it now flies and is down to 200,000 euros in three fiscal years. If they were to apply in particular now to all 363 business entities of 2270 who used it last year, none of them would have stuck to that flight. So, practically, formally, there's no influence at this point. I'd like all 363 of them to be stuck on that line, so they've got big profits, but that's far less than that for the reason that the winnings relate to the release of 25%, and that would be the companies that make 330 million profits in the current year. And beyond that, they would have possibly had some reduction. Here's just so much to say physically how this applies, and it's all the same debate as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12332	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First, Marijana Petir has been respected in the Croatian Peasant Party club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12333	It is certain that mountain-mounted areas are extremely important because of even development, but also because of demographic restoration, as well as the value of the nature of biodiversity. Mountain-mounted areas are of exceptional value, as the very diversity of habitats was created in the interaction of nature with the population there. It's been shaped for centuries by agriculture and livestock. By leaving people, of course, a large number of plant and animal species disappear, grassland and agricultural areas are lost, and that is certainly a real damage for Croatia. As a result, we at the HSS Club feel that more investment is needed to stop the degradation of these habitats or their return to the original, or former state of affairs, but in order for people to find a motive to stay alive right in the mountainous and mountainous areas. However, statistics are inexorable, unfortunately the population density in these areas is very low than only 15.1 inhabitants per square kilometre, while the average for the Republic of Croatia is around 84.62 inhabitants per square meter. The oldest population is on this right now. The conditions of life and work, and the enhancements in these areas are below the average of the Republic, with unfavourable climate conditions, soil configuration and relative poverty in economic potential. Although sometimes we think it is unattainable to compare with Switzerland, we think that just when we talk about mountain-mounted areas should and should be worth using Swiss models. Nevertheless, of course, Switzerland has over $44,000 of gross national income per capita, and Croatia only 4. Some other indicators are very similar to Switzerland, and we are now seeking to make these application models in Croatia through the construction of not only this legal act, but also other legal acts. For example, if we take indicators such as the area of agricultural land, it is 11% for Switzerland, while in Croatia it is 21.6%. The area of the Swiss forests is 31.6% and Croatian 37.1%. From these comparisons it can simply be concluded that Croatia has a large natural but very small, especially small economic potential in mountainous and mountainous areas. We therefore believe that the economy is necessary, but that economy that will be on the trail of sustainable development means that it will preserve its natural potential, and that the population of mountainous and mountainous areas can build its future on that economy. Of course, the example of Switzerland has a well-developed concept to launch the development of a mountain-mounted area, which for objective reasons cannot be fully applied here with us, but can serve as a good example as a source of ideas in making a solution, because our goal should be to keep people in the mountainous and mountainous areas, but also to economically improve these areas. In addition to this economic development, we must also take into account the regional potential itself, as well as the contribution to maintaining decentralisation of population, sociocultural self-loathing and diversity. Also, what is the interest of HSS refers to the permanent development of the mountainous area, where we now see great potential and for the different forms of development of selective tourism. It is of course necessary to work towards promoting cooperation between municipalities, parts of regions, the entire regions, and thus contribute to reducing economic and social diversity. The proposal for this law regulates the promotion of measures for demographic recovery, economic growth, sustainable development, and the creation of preconditions for resolving social opportunities and raising the standard of living in mountainous and mountainous areas. These areas are defined as areas of interest and under the special protection of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, should be treated. This law is also adopted for the purpose of harmonising with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Designation and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, as well as for harmonising with the acquiss of the European Community. In the mountain and mountain areas in 2002, about a thousand 955 entrepreneurs, in 2003, 2 thousand 731 entrepreneurs, in 2004, 2 thousand 923 entrepreneurs, and in 2005, 2 thousand 053 entrepreneurs. Since 2003, 255 entrepreneurs have benefited from tax relief, 257 entrepreneurs in 2004 and 299 entrepreneurs in 2005. Of course, it would be interesting to see the very structure of these entrepreneurs, because it is of particular importance and the definition of economic branches that will contribute to the development of the mountain-mounted area in Croatia. First of all, we think about agriculture, the processing industry, the wooden idustry, the crafts, so everything that doesn't disrupt the ecological balance of that area. We also believe that we should encourage those projects that serve to create additional sources of profit in the rural area. Those branches which contribute to better exploitation of local and regional potentials and which are in line with the objectives and principles of environmental protection and sustainable development. We believe in the HSS Club that it is necessary to implement this law, but to revive mountainous and mountainous areas at local level and define who they are. Of course, one of the options is the Chamber of Commerce of County and the Office for the Economy of the County, as well as Entrepreneurship centres at the county level. But it seems to us that it would be important, first of all, to define which counties that belong to mountainous and mountainous areas and to clarify the criteria which are also a prerequisite for individual counties, municipalities or the city to fit into the frameworks of this law. In the HSS, we are in favour of encouraging the resuscitation of rural economies in the Republic of Croatia and this applies of course to those economies that work at higher altitudes. Of course, for all these incentive programmes, it is necessary to develop the terms of the takeover of products for the domestic and foreign market and precisely for mountainous areas that we see a great opportunity in the development of selective tourism and therefore those on the doorstep. It is also important to point out that all of these problems cannot be solved by one law, therefore, by the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, but we believe that it is necessary to adopt the Law on Regional Development as soon as possible. Here I am also asking the Secretary of State to report to us what stage it is, because just such a law, the Regional Development Act would make an important contribution to ensuring that all the regions in Croatia are evenly developed and that these regions that have weaker economic potentials but also extremely high natural potentials may have yet to have yet another particular stopper and, of course, we manage to preserve these exactly mountainous areas as authentic areas but also to give people who live there motives to stay and find their interests because in other countries people are paid to live in such areas. To keep that space, to keep the rural space, and there is no reason why it should not be in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12334	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12335	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have received a law on the bench which, the proposal, is a proposal for forgiveness, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas marked P.Z.E. and the first and second readings to be done at once and in essence are in line with European legislation. I'll start with a part of what my colleague said, say what we're for and why and with what intentions we've brought first of all the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, so let me tell you, it's not long, it's nice sentences. By law, this Law on mountainous and mountainous areas regulates encouraging measures for demographic restoration, economic growth and sustainable development, as well as the creation of preconditions for resolving social opportunities and raising the standard of living in mountainous and mountainous areas. Of course, Article 2 is also not a long, mountainous and mountainous areas are identified as areas of interest and under special protection of the Republic of Croatia in order to encourage demographic restoration, settlement, the creation of a prerequisite for natural and ine-economic resources to be used as best possible for the economic development of these areas and the Republic of Croatia as a whole. So one noble intention is that in the areas that have fallen under these criteria to be treated by the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas for these reasons that I have read earlier where it was all lacking to encourage and develop, to encourage a better demographic structure and in some way to develop such beautiful parts of Croatia, first of all, I would say parts of the Republic of Croatia and do so to get the Republic of Croatia itself. What are the units of local self-government that have fallen under this Law on hill-mounted areas? Well, let me just say there are 12 cities and 33 municipalities somewhere. Of these 12 cities and 33 municipalities of 5 towns and 14 municipalities are in the 7th and 8th constituency, so to speak, there is a part of it in the Primorje-Goran County, and it is part of Istria County. I'm not gonna pick up these others. These are primarily the city of Buzet, Chabar, Delnice, Ogulin, Senj, Vrbovska. The municipalities are Cerovlje, Čavle, Fužine, Gračije, Jelenje, Klan, Lokve, Lupoglav, Matulji, Motovun, Mrkopalj, Ravna Gora, Skrad and Vinodol Municipality. So far, it has been fundamental to what has been done by this law, except for these beautiful preambles, where the reasons for the need to pass the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, of course, have been said beyond that what should be done in this area so that for these mountainous and mountainous areas it was necessary to create a sustainable development programme of mountainous and mountainous areas. We have made one of our own programs although it was required to do so by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I think, in any case, by that programme that has been verified we have and we know how these mountainous areas should be developed. And what the state did and thank you for that, of course. Without it, there would really be nothing, and these are encouraging measures for the development of mountain-mounted areas. If I didn't list them now, one of these incentive measures is being treated by the current law, so let me just say what are the two incentive measures? Among others, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas has been defined. And this is that the one we are changing now, the taxpayers who carry out their activities in the mountain-mounted area and employ more than 5 undefined employees, where more than 50 employees have a place of residence and a place of residence in the mountain-mounted area or in the area of special state care, pay a profit tax of 75% of the prescribed tax rate, and this all applies to this old man in the business year. This is where we changed it into a tax year. Also, I hope that it will not change and that it will remain regardless of the Europe where everyone is slowly trying to scare us all that it is one big bogeyman, which is that tax revenues from income tax and profit tax made in the area of that unit of local self-government and belonging to the state budget are the units of local self-government that have the status of mountain-mountan area. These two fundamental incentives have led to the fact that the budgets of the local self-government units in mountainous and mountainous areas have been greatly increased by the basis of this article of amending and supplementing the law, and that they are now units of local self-government in which they feel not only economic viability but also all others, because with these money being budgeted, the units of local self-government are, of course, also helping schools. In any case, one of the laws which the Republic of Croatia has passed, which I can say is a full guess that it has revived not only the units of local self-government in mountain-mounted areas but it has brought the counties back to life, of course and of course it is good for the Republic of Croatia. Now, let's just go back to the very law in which the bill on amendments and additions to the law that bears this label P.Z.E. where it is claimed in this assessment that the law needs to be brought into line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. That doesn't seem to interest Europe very much, so I shouldn't wear P.Z.E. Just because we changed the names of the ministries, so Europe shouldn't be looking for it, but come on, it's a technical matter, so we could do it somehow differently, not under the European law firm. Furthermore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area for the purpose of harmonising with the acquis of the European Community has fully adopted the provision of Article 23. Law on profit tax, "National paper" No. 177/04. It is said that we have already brought it, and it reads exactly as it says in the law, although in this new bill of law, it is treated a little differently. So if we've already aligned something with the European Union, and it says that we have, and we've literally translated that article here why we're changing it now with two little corrections that seem not good to me. Of course, by one analysis, the Government must have recognized the benefits of this law and these tax reliefs so that in all this reason, it also said that these tax reliefs led to constant and enhanced growth and entrepreneurs and their environmental impact and society being recorded in these areas, so that there is also something very positive in any case. Now, what is it, what are we harmonizing with Europe? I just couldn't find it. I read these tax payers reliefs just before I said what we've already incorporated into the law without a deadline. There are no deadlines here, and we've aligned that with the European Union and what I've read here we're harmonising essentially behind Article 7c. Article 7d is added. which reads: “All that they have a place of residence, that it is men, the bonds of income tax that I do not read. It's a little silly to read that they pay 75% of the profit tax. But we only added a period. So, we added 2008, 2010. So, in two years since 2011, this 75% relief of profit tax no longer exists for units of local self-government located in mountainous and mountainous areas, and we also changed what I said earlier. It's not 9 months a year, it's in the tax period. I mean, it's a technical thing that's not very European. Now, tell me, what are we coordinating now? So, did Europe tell us that we can't have a tax relief on profit, so we said here we won't have a 75 per cent tax on profits for these areas that I said at the beginning of the very important interest in the Republic of Croatia, because that's not how Europe is anywhere, so neither can we. Or we've found that this period so far is the functioning of this law, and here it's said because it's similar to the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar because these incentives are similar. Have we then learned that these areas have been developed enough, that they have reached the development of other parts of the Republic of Croatia, so they do not need these additional tax incentives, to move in, to open jobs, to work on the basis of these tax reliefs, so that then the income tax remains a unit of local self-government, so that the local self-government unit, together with the individual or new employees, continues to develop. I don't think we're good at that so-called. The bauk Europe, we bring something restrictive and limit our right to tax relief in units of local self-government that have the status of mountainous and mountainous areas and of course, because in this law it is written. I must say, of course, the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. I think it was an opportunity, but it seems to me that my colleague Caine said that we should go to Brussels for a little while for Vukovar to urinate, so that they really don't know what the truth is about the real Vukovar and how much money that needs to be spent. I'd say maybe something that's closer to us. It is not true that Europe or the European Union does not recognise or disrespect tax relief. It's not just true! Here, I think it was now an opportunity, I'm sorry that we lost at the European Championship, there was an opportunity between the two matches to walk Austria that is across from us, which is also in the European Union, which also helps units, its provinces and its producers and have mountain-mounts that specifically treat them and help them in the same way may not be directly seen to be that these tax reliefs are listed in the law but have something else. The reduced revenue the state will receive has a province. In this case, it should be the unit of local self-government and administration, that is, our county and through this horizontal one I would say, the horizontal incentive that has been addressed in Europe, I think it could still be realized that these incentives, i.e. the reliefs, are still in place. Because I claim both in Vukovar and in units of local self-government that are in mountainous and mountainous areas, we have not yet reached that stage of development that we would like and would like. Because when it all finally comes down to how much it costs now. Of course, the state doesn't cost anything and it's always suspicious when the state law we're making doesn't cost anything because it's the most expensive lunch that's the cheapest. But in any case, if the exact data that we can read here were tax reliefs in 2003, 6 million and 600, in 2004. 6 and 600 and 2005 Eight million and four hundred thousand kuna. I think it's funny figures for the Croatian budget, that through another way it could be done and done to coordinate if that's exactly what Europe doesn't want to see, that we're helping local self-government units that are in hill-mounted areas and in the city of Vukovar. I think that should have been done differently, and I am sorry that we are quick to put an end to something, because that is what the European Union said. We are further creating animosity especially among these units, people who live in units of local self-government that I have just read earlier, who will understand that this is not because of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but because of Europe. They no longer have the right to those incentives they had here, we're talking about these 75% profit tax payments, and I don't think it's good for some kind of creating an atmosphere about the European Union as a community that's so happy to accept us. If you'd made a bill that abolished it and said you'd do it by some other means through units of local self-government and administration, then I think this would make sense to people and then we could explain nothing to you. But you've told us since 2011, in two years, there's no further promotions taxed on profits in local self-government units covered by the Hill and Mountain Areas Act, and in the name of the SDP club I have to say because it's a good part, I said the local self-government unit in my county and in the Istrian County, we're not going to accept a law like this that says on "bu" from Europe that, here it is, and that the additional solutions that it has, you haven't even sought out or restructured what we're doing here, which you're taking down here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12336	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12337	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas with the Final Proposal of the Law therefore has its beginning, as my colleagues spoke of it in detail. So, back in 2002, when the law was passed and, of course, given that so far, much has been elaborated and said, almost quoted because it is a small law. I would say, however, what was to kill us should have passed this law, since I came from the area, so the micro-region Gorski Kotar, the Primorje-Gorski County, and of course we felt the positive consequences of that law at the time when it was passed. I would like to say, given that there are a lot of these and detailed articles, this is how I would like to ask the questions, through four questions, what I would like to kill that law has brought us, which should bring us, and perhaps the part that is not so far, I have not heard about it, so through these three articles that talk about, about this text of the provision on mountainous and mountainous areas that are changing or supplementing. So, the law is as was said in 2002, I have to say that it has been preparing for quite a long time, so that law had first the idea to be for mountainous and mountainous areas like Gorski Kotar, therefore for areas, I won't say that others don't fit, but the space from which I come, I must say that it is exactly what, we can say by definition falls into such areas because in the last 50 years the number of inhabitants of Gorski Kotar has been halved. Of the 50,000 inhabitants there in the 1970s and earlier, today we came to only 25,000 inhabitants. So, it should also be said that Gorski Kotar in that part of the hill-mounted mountain is also one corridor through which we can now say the third road, so the space through which Caroline passed, and Louisiana, and the railway line in 1873, and now the latest road, which I believe will open that space. What did killing that law bring us then? He made it possible in Gorski Kotara of 9 local units, a fact greater budget. However, this law also made it possible for some others because there are standards that entered the law, some local communities were given far, far greater resources, so as I recall somewhere from 450 million kunas only 80 ended up in this area, and so those who were rich even got even more. I'm not going to say I shouldn't have, but there's one shift that's been made with us, and it's allowed us to start designing programs, so we can do projects, so we can build infrastructure. The reliefs that the law has passed, we have heard it now, so this tax benefits, but then what might be important to the residents themselves in Gorski Kotar, so it is a tax return. What's interesting to those who live in that space. However, we are not far from real development. So, Gorski Kotar, but also other similar mountain and mountain areas are expected through this law in that part of which I have listed through these three articles that are being changed here, are expected to have some sublegal acts, through these two words that are very much working on us, but I should say, it is very nice to hear, however, that sustainable development must have some sublegal acts behind it, or in this law I think it is good here and I believe that this will be elaborated with the help of local units. So, that will develop that part of sustainable development through these three ministries, which has not been so far. When I said it was a corridor, why do I emphasize it? That corridor to kill means occupied space. In some local units, if we exclude Chabar, so a large part of the space is busy, so the pipeline passes through it, the pipeline passes, the roads pass, and I expect, first of all, that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning will help to help through sustainable development, so through what the Government has a commitment, which is not highlighted within 90 days, and local units through 45, so give quality proposals to make sustainable development, so it really does have one way, means that it allows these premises through these three investment ministries whether to eliminate these reliefs that we've heard about before may not be so much of the most important. In my opinion, the most important thing is that through these three ministries, through these proposals and local communities they are accepted. I'll tell you what that means. In those first reliefs we started to build infrastructure, but other than infrastructure, usually we imagine it's just water, it's roads, so I don't know we who live in those areas have snow cleaning in the winter period, we have a big space, we have a low population, a small number of inhabitants per mile square and so it's not easy to function. So, under the infrastructure in the first place, I consider such spaces as I come from that will be the infrastructure for ski resorts because besides my Vrbovski, Delnica, Mrkoplje and Trsće in the area of the town of Capra, I believe that through this sustainable development this infrastructure should be built and I expect that through these decisions the government will not be able to do so within 90 days, in some ways I can say that some of the beginnings already exist now and that the Ministry of Regional Development through Croatia and through its companies will enable the development of this infrastructure, because indeed local units themselves will not be able to do so, and when this infrastructure is built, I expect, because what colleagues have already mentioned here how many entrepreneurs benefit from this law. So it must still last longer, it must have more built infrastructure and then we can expect that there will also be domestic investors and that we will be able to carry out foreign competitions in order to develop such a space. So in that part, I emphasize this on page 6, so sustainable development, this is just one more time, and I think the possibilities are great. Croatian forests can also through their part, as they are mentioned here, so the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of crafts and little entrepreneurship may currently be missing so that these spaces are still missing, because you see now the road that will be built soon, so it has specifically brought Gorski Kotar closer to Zagreb for 45 minutes, Rijeka for 30 minutes, therefore along with this additionally built infrastructure because part of this infrastructure has been built, so this kind of infrastructure will nevertheless enable development, Zagreb developed city with $18,000 or Rijeka with something smaller or these spaces between $3-4,000 gross income, so it will be possible through this and I honestly expect it here and I suggest that we still adopt this law because it is harmonized and that through these three items that I have spoken on page 6, it will bring us what we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12338	Thank you. And on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12339	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, When it comes to this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, I can say that it must be one of the best laws that, I mean that law of 2002, not that of which it is today, means the one from 2002. So it's one of the best laws that enlists local self-government on employers, then citizens and farmers. Why? Citizens, and we who come from these areas know, have the right to return taxes, as a rule, I don't know 3-4 thousand kuna somewhere. Local self-government retains both income tax and income tax. By increasing this non-taxable part from 1.600,00 to 1.800,00 kuna, the revenues of our municipalities and cities are slightly reduced, but no one in these municipalities or cities is objecting to saying that all are more or less satisfied with the existing solutions. Third, farmers can achieve the basis of these specific stimulants, and entrepreneurs pay a 75% average profit tax. What this specifically means for an average citizen to be able to count under quotes on the thirteenth salary. If in one family the two work, it means that they can actually count on two thirteen salaries. For the economy as we can see in this text of the law, these specific reliefs amounted to some 6.6 million kunas less for the state budget in 2003, 2004. 6.6 million kuna, 2005. 8.5 million kuna, and that certainly is not the money that should be used to shed crocodile tears, and therefore I do not see what this Article 3rd sub 7d does better than 2001 to quote it now: "The taxpayers of the tax referred to in paragraph 1 of this article will pay the profit tax at the rate of the prescribed tax rate." Why doesn't the state let the entrepreneurs do it a little bit as you call it, freedom. I said, on that basis, the state de facto doesn't lose anything, because if for the state, the problem is 8.5 or 10 million kuna, then it is indeed a tragedy for every citizen living in this country. On the other hand, if there is no stimulant, we will be able to relocate capital from many such environments to other cities. That I was right to testify and this information that in 2002 there were 1955 entrepreneurs in those premises, in 2003 we are already jumping to 2731, 2004 as much as 2923, and then again in 2006 the number of entrepreneurs in those areas began to decline. However, it should also be fair and acknowledge that the total profit in the Republic of Croatia from this area has increased slightly, so that these areas of special state concern in 2003 participated in the gross social product with 1.9% and in 2005 with 2.77%. So that's the direct consequence I dare say let's change that economic situation, but also this law. On the other hand, I now don't know how many spaces within the Republic of Croatia these mountain-mounted areas may be 1/5, 1/6, or 1/7 of the Republic of Croatia, and in the total gross social product, these areas are only 2.77% according to this data I speak for 2005. So what we can conclude among other things and because of the provisions of this law, is slow going for the better, but still going for the better, and on the other hand I also believe that these areas are not competition for anyone in the Republic of Croatia. Now imagine that this one Chabar that it seems to me Mr. Mance Ante mentioned or one Lamiće lost that status, so it would be a tragedy for those areas, for those people who live there. In particular, it would be a tragedy for me to say with the domicile population clearly, and I said that the law de facto means every 13th salary, it would be a tragedy for local self-government. I'm saying, not that I'm saying, but we all know that, we're all aware that it's not the same to drag a water line down or down that flat plate around Poreč. It's not the same road to build in a Chabra, climb from Capra up towards Trieste or some plain. It is not the same for children to travel to the city of Buzet or Lanišca or in the area of a small municipality in Istria, Novigrad, Rovinj or what I know below Pula. That is why, in my court, local self-government must have the amounts that this additional cost will in some way cover, and this is allowed by this law. At last, it's not the same thing I would do now and dare say, I don't know how to sow hay on these little parcels in one Grapes or what I know in one Lupoglava or on some plain. All this clearly leads to the fact that this status must be maintained, but also that the state must be more dominantly present in this area, because as I said, life costs are simply not the same. It's about living in some hill-mounted enclaves just like living on some islands. The biggest problem with these spaces is the clear depopulation. On the other hand, I think Mrs. Petir mentioned something about the county, but what can our county do when it comes to these mountain-mounted areas? They can do little or to be even more precise, almost nothing with budgets from 200 to 300 million kuna and it is about the budget of the richest Croatian county, the County of Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County. Which those who are not able to care, to be so cynical or open, to health care, to social or schooling, how will they take care of these areas whose needs are certainly the highest, because, as I said, building that infrastructure in those areas is incomparably higher or the price of that is incomparably higher than anywhere else in the Republic of Croatia. I know that the biggest problem, especially when it comes to this depopulation policy, we can tie to those '50s, '60s, maybe '80s, but today when we know that these ends have de facto run out of people, and being without people in those areas, it's certainly the biggest handicap. You simply have to offer a certain legal solution or certain norms as it is done with this Law on Hill and Mountain Space. Finally, this 2002 law was a commendable beginning. After 2002, a step forward should be taken to help that end. We need to help that end not only through the budget, but also through the extra budget funds. Unfortunately, this law that's in front of us today is two steps back. And it's not Jesus, it's like that. I don't know who threw it. This law, and then I'll say that, about the 2002 hill-mounted area, so that's the law of the third-month coalition, this is a good law. He's a de facto pandan to those about the special state care we brought there in the '90s or the island law. But as the Law on Special State Care has helped many parts, trust me in the same way and this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area helps many parts of Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County and not to list any further. With that difference as long as we say on our islands, there are at least two months of people. the tourists of these parts, I am talking about mountain-mounted areas are normally released for 12 months without additional income and it seems to me that it is not good to change the existing Article 3(3) of that Article, respectively, paragraph 3. That's got to be bad. As Mr. Luka Denon mentioned, I also think that the amendment of this existing law does not force us to the European Union, and it stimulates a whole series of its own ends, each country does so individually, but how does it do so? By recognising these parts, the autonomous status, which highlights their specificity, whether it is a minority, linguistic, historical, thus stressing their needs, is normally respected by their expenditures. And the more decentralised the other side of the country, the more likely it will be. I claim that the Republic of Croatia has achieved its fastest growth according to the '74 Constitution. the year when local self-government remained up to 60% of these fiscal revenues. The truth is, with these revenues, local self-government, city or assembly, the municipality of this or she had to care about education and health care and police and pay salaries for court employees, etc. Today it all goes, and it has to be acknowledged, from the state budget, but as we can see, no one is satisfied with it. They are not satisfied with the state officials, they are not satisfied with local self-government, and I do not know whether or because of such behaviour the happy state is not normally satisfied, which is the worst, the users of these state services. And that's why the country needs to be clearly decentralised. That is why some regions are higher than their specificities, so to speak, deserve "special", a different status, not to bring down anything but to make citizens in these areas happy and to integrate the Republic of Croatia even more strongly through such a form. This law, i.e. In this respect, Article 3(3) does not share that logic and so much is unacceptable to me. I will once again say, I have no idea that one of us in Europe is asking for this law to change, and if the negotiators are unable to explain to the European Union what the mountain-mounted space means, then let them stay home nicely and let those who will be able to explain it to people in the future to the example of one Switzerland, Austria, those mountainous regions of Germany, etc. In other words, I think Mrs. Petir here mentioned and talked about regional development through a syntagm of equal development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. I think such a single policy is a relic, it is simply impossible, it is almost and unnatural, it is one socialization of all in Croatia and it is ultimately a detimulative policy. Help you, yes, but the point is that everyone manages their own. Equal development of the county is simply impossible. It is only possible if you punish one county and then channel those funds towards other areas. Unfortunately, such a policy has been or has been conducted in Croatia so far, and that is not perspective for anyone. On the other hand, how can one county of Istria or Primorje-Gorski County, with their income of 200, 300 million kuna, help one Chabra, one Lanist, Delnice or Gračisu? Almost certainly not, and therefore let everyone make a clear autonomous decision about themselves, but as the government in Croatia operates, it will unfortunately not happen for decades. Or that's why
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12340	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12341	Where they are I don't know, your Mr. Vice President, that's where the funds from the state budget will go, where my assets are not going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12342	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12343	Where your coalition partners are, that's where the funds go from the state budget, and where we're in power, that's where the funding from the state budget doesn't go. All in all, please. [[Intruder: Finish.]] Okay, here's what I'm gonna do with this sentence. I think the existing Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area was a good law, that it had to be upgraded, and not now through one of these standards to bring it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12344	Thank you. The Croatian people should not be shared, your people and ours. And I don't think that's a very good ending for you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Your Honor. Domir Caine, Your Honor, sit in your seat, stop arguing, you have no word. Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12345	I can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12347	Thank you very much. You see how the debate has caught on, like we really are. Parliamentaryism in action. First of all, when we discuss the amendments to this law, I would like to remind you that in 2002 we passed a quality law during the coalition government, where certain incentive measures were being arranged, which also defined the mountain-mounted area as one of life's problems. And encouraging measures that were in the direction of demographic recovery, economic growth, sustainable development, and ageing conditions for resolving social opportunities and raising the standard of living in mountainous and mountainous areas. Under the mountain-mounted areas, we mean an area whose altitude, slope or exposure, all says law, effective fertility, climate and all other natural features, are difficult conditions for living and working inhabitants. So then we accepted that these areas are harder to live, that we have problems with demographics, that people move out of these areas, that local units have financial problems to provide and finance public services, so that citizens can live qualityly in these areas. One of these reliefs was the one that we are abolishing today, which is that since 2010 as the amendments to this law now speak, it has lifted the relief for entrepreneurs in terms of profit tax, where they will not be able to achieve any special benefits in terms of that tax and the tax will be paid in particular as in all other parts of Croatia. What we should have had on the agenda today is 3 laws that are related to this issue, i.e. 3 laws that, by harmonising with the European acquis, say that certain reliefs cannot be achieved in this sense in which they have been achieved so far. I would like to remind you of one thing, we seem to be joining the European Union, i.e. precisely thinking about that charter or what it was called in 2003, and for five years it has been known that in this sense these things will not be able to stand. Today we press time, or by opening new negotiating chapters, says the necessity to change these things from our laws, at least that's how the government's representatives explain all these changes. My question now is why we haven't had a debate in 5 years and why we haven't prepared any measures in 5 years, which would eliminate these monetary and financial effects in order to help these areas in some other ways. What this law certainly passed, that is, in 2002 when we adopted it, was made by certain larger revenues from local units and, in some ways, 45 local units were covered by this law. I must point out that within all our local units, 570 of them in Croatia, we have 274 individuals that are covered by special conditions. It is not just a mountain-mounted area, it is about units located in areas of special state care and 45 island units. So almost half of the local units are all covering some special laws and are achieving some benefits so that life can take place in these areas as successfully as possible. I would now point to another problem that arises in Croatia, which is that Croatia does not have a planned Regional Development Strategy in which it would pay particular attention to the funding model of local units, i.e. with an emphasis on supporting local units that do not have the possibility, i.e. have economic difficulties in developing and have no fiscal opportunities to finance the minimum standard of providing public services in this area. But we always rely on the state to take, and then, according to one of its own criteria, to share the units, most often in our example in Croatia, these are criteria that are related to some of the parties' interests in familiarity, etc. So we have an economic strategy where all units may exist, not perhaps but certainly there are individuals of local self-government who do not have financial opportunities, and are not in the areas of mountainous and islandal areas, and perhaps such individuals should also be covered by one strategy, in order to enable them to finance their public needs in quality. What seems to me, and this has already been pointed out several times already that there have been no express difficulties, i.e. difficulties in this part of the release of these tax benefits by entrepreneurs in these mountainous and mountainous areas, i.e. that there may be a difference given the demographic problem and I think that in Europe we have examples where certain countries also subsidise entrepreneurs in areas where there is no of course no possibility, where business is difficult. What makes me particularly sad is that unlike the previous law on the City of Vukovar, there are a lot of entrepreneurs involved here, and we see that this part refers to about 2,000 entrepreneurs, with him growing in 2002, 2003 and then shrinking in 2005, it is very likely that the simple conditions in these areas are not regardless of these reliefs sufficiently attractive that some serious entrepreneurship can take place. I prefer to think that the state should be able to make these areas more attractive for entrepreneurs in infrastructure and in some economic or regional strategy. What I also find illogical is that in one law, we leave the same principles of tax relief until 2016, and in another law like this we limit them to 2010. And I'm saying we're calling again to an identical principle both at one law and another, so I'm getting this illogicalness, and I'd like to get into an eye, and I'd like to have a government official explain a little bit why that is? I've been a witness to a life in one of those cities myself. I lived in Ogulin for a while, and I have to admit it was a city that was very rich. He had a strong forestry industry, well developed and as far as furniture processing is concerned, and so on. And during the years of war, unfortunately and later privatisation, and let's call it the weakening of the economic situation in all of Croatia has come into a very difficult position and I must admit that the Law on the Mountain-Mountain Mountains or on the assistance in mountain-mounted areas has helped him greatly because the budget has grown greatly with these revenues that the local unit could ultimately further achieve. The city has now managed with these additional funds to make life easier for people there and perhaps stop a negative trend of eviction from the city to the larger and the environment where life could possibly be simpler. So here I would also join my colleague Denoni, I am not inclined to accept such a law, and on the other hand we do not have a clear view of how we will compensate for these benefits that have been expressed so far, or how in some way entrepreneurs or economies in these areas will be helped by concrete projects, or by someone I told the designed economic strategy of regional development that Croatia still does not have, and where I say we rely more on centralisedness or that these countries will take, and then share in principle as I said it earlier, not on some economic, not on someone who has economic logic but on who knows who and where is from which party is in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12348	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12349	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think it's, uh, here I'm listening to both my colleague and the gentleman, the gentleman before Istre Caine, who's speaking, so we passed that law, and as you want to break it now. As far as I know, I was also the head of the local community that we, that the law was passed in 2002, but that, that he was not then brought indefinitely, but the government was behind, extended that law indefinitely. I think that's the first incorrect quote. And the second is this says so we won't support that law. Then I don't know if I'm a good interpreter and I see that no one or that knowingly avoided page 6. Because in the former law, or before it was written, there was no such sustainable development through three ministries. I see here a chance so much, much greater and the obligation of these ministries to build in these areas all the infrastructure that is needed and what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12350	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), I would like to inform you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is time to report a debate of 10 minutes in 14 hours and 10 minutes. We'll continue the debate one more time. Honorable representative Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12351	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here I am one of the leaders who comes from the mountain-mounted area, right across the hill in Bistra, and I remember that in 2002 when the Law on the mountain-mounted area was passed. We were filling out some kind of questionnaire to the Ministry. I was told it was in the 7th month of 2002 that we had gained the status of a mountain-mounted mountain. I thought we got a come on, we didn't get anything special with that. So here after a year, two, three really start to feel the positive consequences of passing this law. What we must in any case agree with Mr. Mance that here's the government is in 2003 the amendments to the laws that extended this to unlimited. And here's what years went by we started to feel all the positive consequences, and I think that's what our citizens and entrepreneurs in the mountain-mountan area feel every day. Especially when we talk about paying back an untaxable part of 2400 kuna is in the area of hill-mountan and I think our citizens feel when they return after their annual application that this is like Mr. Cain's one-on-one salary, and I think it has contributed greatly to here and improving some basic standard from the area here are these municipalities and cities. As is said here in previous discussions, the total amount is covered by this law of 45 units of local self-government, 13, 12 I think 12 and 13 cities and 33 municipalities, and I think that in that sense the state has given up the same certain financial resources so that, annually, only since the return of taxes per year, I think it's returning to those units somewhere around the circus of about 550 million kuna. This law is not just about a law that is very good and in any case it is perspective for these very municipalities and cities. I must say, that law creates another series of benefits. That's what our farmers, the milkmen feel. That's what we feel in local self-government, because our budgets here by getting our status increased by the circus not to say for sure from that tax section by 50% so that with these financial resources we can go to other investments and that's what's important, that's infrastructure. Here I am speaking from the municipality from which I come from Bistra, thanks to these means we have launched the construction of sewers and plumbing because it is also followed by the Ministry of Construction, where the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development and where the Regional Development Fund is following us. So here we could also pool our assets that are certainly much bigger to us than they were before and thus solve what is most important to each place, which is infrastructure. I have to say that here's because it's a beautiful privilege and it certainly suits everyone, but I think we all who are the leaders in these municipalities and cities are aware that one day, we were aware when we got that one day it had to go away in some way, but in a way, it was abolished. The status will most likely not be lifted, but these benefits must surely be known in time to be lost. So what I'm proposing to see is that by 2010, by 2011, basically this benefit is worth a 25% tax exemption. After that, it goes away. I hope that the cities and municipalities that are here will get that status, and I must say that by getting the status we couldn't immediately predict all these benefits. Because for some real, real and optimal expectation of all the benefits, it takes about three to four years, so what's important is that we have to prepare ourselves in local self-government. We had to change the spatial plans, we had to build the infrastructure, so here's the new Construction Act we're also aware that we have to make urban plans for all those surfaces that are larger than 5,000 squares, so I think right now, in some way this year, or the next bar we're going to get the conditions for really these business zones that we've opened, and thanks to the benefits prescribed by this law, but also the benefits that we give to local self-government are not just about what the state gives. I think we must also follow in municipalities and cities if we already have certain benefits to give here, so here I am, specifically in our community, and we have freed all those who are building business production facilities. In my field of municipal compensation, they're still paying in the fifth year. We've reduced maximum municipal contributions to attract manufacturers, which is our biggest goal. It's not so much of a target for us, it's some kind of mall, but manufacturers who will hire those unemployed in our area. I think there's been a lot of work done in that sense, and here's this provision of the law I'm saying in a way that benefits are being lost. But as the secretary of state said, it's only about those who have the benefit of how much I figured out over 200 grand a year, 200000 euros a year. I think there may be some of these, unfortunately, that will cross that line, and I think by 2011, we must be aware that the situation will certainly improve in these areas, that entrepreneurs will also adapt to these opportunities. And here's what I said, and a little while ago, we have to be aware that here's this particular benefit one day, in a way, is going to be a little bit less. So here's what's been said both before and all these years, how many countries and our government have invested in these areas, and the areas of special state care, I think we need to support the law and, in any case, find additional solutions through a certain set of our ministries to see these benefits go down to the maximum until we enter the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12352	Thank you. Honorable representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12353	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, one short bill, and such a long debate. We've been here almost three hours. So long a debate that even colleague Cain called upon the '74 Constitution. And a golden age then for local self-government. But I'm sure he doesn't mean the '74 Constitution. as an ideal framework for Croatia. He also said one thing that is true, which is that all the expensive reduction of benefits does not mean big money for the state, for the state budget, so one wonders whether the state has some evil intention when it wants to do something insignificant. Obviously there was, there is obviously a fundamental reason why this is done, and that money that is eventually obtained from it is either taken away by an entrepreneur or diminishing his interest in investment by the state makes up multiple payments to all others who spend it to develop some spaces. So, in my opinion, the meaning of the bill as far as it can be that some formulation is better is not so important for a general picture in that space, especially that we testify that many of these areas that I didn't even know have such a classification to say are both cities and municipalities. Because when you say mountain-mounted then they think of some guests away from any civilization, and this is actually about cities and municipalities that are quite urban even, well urban. It seems to me as much as this is one of the tools to boost development, absolutely one of the tools that encourages the development of undeveloped areas. In this case, it is only mountain-mounted because the island areas and coasts are resolved by some other laws, although there are the same images as in these. I would point out again as before in the Vukovar debate that the issue of financing infrastructure building is literally like installation, literally as municipal infrastructure roads, water, sewers, electricity. It is also very important for the purpose of living in this area of survival and promotion of social infrastructure, i.e. the availability of that social infrastructure if it does not exist in the local community itself, in the area of the local community that it is easily accessible in another nearby place. We're aware that the Longfield is, say, a space that would also be classified into one of these, one of these definitions. But he is already so accessible to Split that this infrastructure actually brings him into a completely different context of behaviour, and even a son mentioned here as part of the mountain-mountan area, as one of the cities of the hill-mounted area, and today he is from Split in less than half an hour available to say that one part of Zagreb is much further from the city center than it is. So, I law which is, this little law that is proposed with corrections that are more unfavourable than some people before, doesn't seem to me to be as important in some debate as an incentive to talk about other elements that can be encouraged and facilitated by those who are willing to invest in such places and that, in fact, through these investments that are significantly greater than what is possibly being saved on benefits from profits will achieve much better results. We have an example of a lot that we have already fully demonstrated, and that is why I think the structure that has been set that the issue of sustainable development is finally beginning to be integrated in terms of more elements, not only of one aspect like here financially, but of space-planner through other ministries of regional development, agriculture, the economy in general to one such system, more of them in coordination, more of the elements using the tools of all ministries can be achieved much better so that this does not seem so important to me, although it does deny some of the particular money they were counting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12354	Thank you. And lastly, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas was passed in 2002, everyone here in the debate agreed, it meant an important help to people in those parts. He saved them. If it hadn't been for this law, there would have been a continued eviction, the collapse of those parts, maybe to this day there wouldn't be anyone there anymore. Life has been preserved in these areas, young people remain, there can be lived, and just now that this law has opened up their perspective, here are these changes they say since 2011 don't count on tax incentives anymore. Why? There's not much of a reason that it's a alignment with Europe. Well, I know, but was any of you in those parts? Has anyone been to Mrkoplje? What does Mropal have to do with Europe? If that's what European officials are asking you to do, take them to Mrkopalj, take them to Lokve. Well, it's miles from Europe, not hundreds of miles, but light years. Well, there, without help, life will stop, so that's where it'll all be like the Middle Ages. Well, we cannot coordinate with Europe by condemning people in these areas to one camp. To take away their every future. We get with it, or they won't get close to Europe like that. They'll walk away from her. So explain it to European officials that this is not how it works, if it is true that Europe is looking for it. But since you're already offering to remove these benefits as large and actually the only important thing in this law, why don't you parallelly offer some other model to see what happens after 2011 with those parts? What about Chabra, Vrbovski, Delnice? Because I guess those people are expecting an answer from us. Well, we can't just tell them, so now that it was, it was from 2002 to 2011, what helped you, helped you, helped you, no more. They're going to start giving up today based on this message. So who's crazy to invest something there when they know that in 2011, all tax breaks will stop. This is the law that says get out of these parts, save the people by 2011, run anywhere, but don't stay there because the Croatian government won't help you. Because he's just proposing the law to stop helping you. Well, at least it's fair to tell those people when you're already offering them nothing else, no other law, no other form of help, and then it's fair to tell them at least to abandon all hope. Because these ends without mountain-mounted law, without relief, I assure you, they don't have a future. Well, it's not because people are lazy there, so they won't work, so who's to blame? Well, it's an extremely lagging area, so he needs oxygen, artificial breathing. And what are you doing? You take off the oxygen bottle. You're threatening to rip out that infusion in 2011. So this is the announcement of the end, the announcement of the end for the mountain-mounted areas. Here, under the cover of connecting or joining Europe, these regions are condemned to distance from Europe. By this law, you send them into the Middle Ages. And I would ask, Secretary of State, that when you have a final review to make it clear to these people whether the government is preparing some other form of assistance or whether they are all together when we go to visit that constituency, that part of Croatia is said to be the best place for them to get out of there. And I'm not sure Damir Cain is right. When he says that some areas and some areas are being punished because they didn't vote on how they thought they were supposed to vote. That's a terrible message, then. It is a terrible message to share the Croatian people, as the vice president says on his or her part, on those whom we will help and on those whom we will not. So what are these people to blame for Chabra? So what's their fault? You didn't get a lot of votes? Well, you didn't, but you don't have to take this away from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12356	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is the Honorable representative Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12357	Here, Your Honor, I must correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect quote, which he says by this law, you send them to the Middle Ages. Well, I can't agree with that, because Mr. Stazic here I come from that area and I guess I wouldn't go here to defend something that's not good. But I have to tell you, here's when you're talking about those who voted or who didn't vote. I do, but I've made an effort to see what municipalities and towns of HDZ that are opposition, so I have to tell you... No, that this government is returning to the Middle Ages, Mr. Stazic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you said that's where the funds are given to those who are closer, who give votes. I have to say that half, more than half of the cities are SDPs, and also more than half of the municipalities, when I'm talking about it, not just SDPs, HNSs, IDSs, etc. And as for returning to the Middle Ages, Mr. Stazic, you didn't say what remains of the benefits and benefits of those municipalities and cities, which is the return of the income tax, credits, customs-free imports and a lot of things that the benefits are not lifted by this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12358	Thank you. And others, unfortunately, are such a custom, corrections, not others, you have to start from yourself, each one of you. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to correct the incorrect quote of the esteemed fellow Stazic, who said that in 2011 by way of a full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, these regions, so mountainous areas in the Republic of Croatia, are now back in the Middle Ages. You have the right to link Croatia's entry into Europe with the return of these parts to the Middle Ages, but it is only your opinion, and I do not want to correct your opinion at this time, but it speaks enough about your perception of the need for Croatia to enter the European Union as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12360	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Honorable representative of Luke Denon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12361	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I know it's been a while and, like my colleague said, I'm not gonna name him because he's gone, little law, but here's the big debate. You're right. You're right. You're right. This is a law which, due to small changes, will make us one day in areas of, writes here, mountainous and mountainous areas that did not get that status in vain, so I said that we should leave this provision 75% of profit tax, because this law regulates incentive measures for demographic recovery, economic work, sustainable development, etc. A fellow mayor from Vrbovski I will concentrate only on the part I know best, which is the beautiful mountain Kotar. When you pass the Kotar Mountain, then you will find settlements that are whole, in which there was no war, as unfortunately there was in Vukovar, but in which there are no people. There are no people. That's tragic. People won't come if they're made of roads. People will come if they can find a job and only then the road to come to that job. But first if they have a job. The job will be found today, only if we are so determined to encourage a small and medium-sized economy, to encourage something called capitalist thinking, so that there are people entrepreneurs who, in this way, are free from paying some taxes, can come there and bring that end back to life. And that's why we don't have to lift these benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12362	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12363	I'm sorry that I don't have a chance to respond to those who didn't have the moral courage to raise a yellow tile at all, but under the correction of the wrong quote, they're actually trying to replicate, not to dare at all, the possibility to respond to the replica, and then hide behind the white tile, because that's what their courage is, which we can do, so are the secretaries. You say, colleague Denon, there are incentive measures being arranged. This law regulates incentive measures. This law amending and supplementing the law regulates the abolition of incentive measures. This law regulates the destruction of mountainous and mountainous areas. This law regulates that people will no longer stay there, that they will move out of these parts. This is regulated by these amendments and additions to the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12364	Thank you. Just for the sake of accuracy, the possibility of correcting an incorrect quote as well as replicas gives us our Rules of Procedure. So no one hides behind it, but it's a business opportunity like my God and the ability to force each other out of the club club, through replicas. That's right. The debate is individually over. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Stanko Janic, secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12365	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's my first show in the House to defend some law and I'm just glad it was this hard, because that gives me the courage to move on, but maybe I'll disappoint some. With these amendments and amendments to the law, we do not abolish anything but agree on profit taxes that are operational support with the acquis of the European Union, there is no place in Europe to provide support that is not related to eligible costs, and for these very reasons they have been difficult to maintain and in difficult negotiations with the European Community Commission it has been realised that they can be applied for some time. We have done so and according to the degree of development of a particular area to make this selectivity, time-limited where the greatest indevelopment is etc. In this particular Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, which is allowed is as provided for by the Small Assistance Act adopted in this House, it provides for 200 thousand euros in a three-year collection of support for entrepreneurs or, on average, about 500 thousand kuna. That all of these 363 business entities that have achieved the benefits of this tax and received a return of 14 million 724 thousand kuna, that they used 100% of these changes, could get 191 million. So they only used 7.8% of the potential to get incentives. In 2003, they used 3.4% if they looked this way and 2006. 7.8%. We're working on using 100% of this potential for the next two years. This means that they do so well that they can gain as much as possible and have a greater benefit of 25%. It means that when you look at yourself technically we haven't diminished anyone, but everyone will be able to use it for the next two years. But we have to do, do so, and it is through the Regional Development Act that will come to you in the 9th month and the Economic Development Strategy, which will also come to you at the 9th month, where we have to make the difference between the difficulties created by the position, such as islands, if they are mountainous and mountainous areas, from the difficulties created by war such as Vukovar and certain other areas or difficulties created by certain demographic movements, including the Municipalitys of Grožnjan and the municipalities of Oprtalj and Ivanisce. I know that because I'm from Bu. And some other municipalities for demographic reasons. For such environments, such measures must be taken to comply with European standards, and they are related to the means of eligible costs for these companies to operate. Business entities in the mountain-mounted area will be able to benefit from benefits because they are located in a mountain-mounted mountain-mounted area, and those who have some other problems demographically from a municipality such as Buzet or a similar municipality will also have on that basis. There will also be measures for municipalities located in border areas so they have other effects and will be able to use the funds and measures cumulatively to... shortcomings in border areas, and there are large numbers in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we are really solving, agreeing to meet the criteria for opening chapter 8 after which negotiations will arise for the achievement of all the other laws that we are going to pass, and we are opening a perspective in these environments and in the next two years and new measures that are being adopted by the end of the 9th month. And in the future, I believe when it comes to discussing how you will adapt such measures that respect European standards to these environments that are important for the development of these parts. Here tomorrow I'm going to the Green Summit at Ogulin to go hiking with society and I'm going to tell them the same thing, take the money, stand at your disposal, do your business positively, and you'll benefit more and invest more, reinvest it in your own production. I'm really convinced that these business entities that are over two thousand, and they only use 360, and those who use them, will be able to use 7.8% of the potential, can use more. I thank you for your understanding, I believe that in voting this transition part will be accepted in the next discussions on new measures that are really high quality and, by respecting all of your back fundamentals, you will make a good and quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12366	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12367	Secretary of State, it's just not exactly what you say we're not ending anything. Well, that's what the law says. In 2011, 25% of tax cuts are lifted. Well, you can't say we don't cancel now, and it says it's nice to cancel. You say you're going up there tomorrow. Well, that's great for you to go hiking there. That personally made me very happy. But what will the citizens of Mrkopolje, Lokva, Chabra, Vrhovski and Delnik have from your hike when you cut off their 25% perks. To that question, I forgot that I asked in my final review to answer that question, you didn't answer, but you said you were going hiking. So climb.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12368	Thank you. Here, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on that point when the conditions are met. This concludes today's session of the Croatian Parliament. We'll continue on July 2nd at 9.30 p.m. with point 13. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Export Act of dual-purpose goods, point 14 and so on on the agenda. Have a nice weekend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12369	We're moving to 10. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on mountain-mounted areas was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 106. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of this amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who agrees to conduct a debate on the government's amendment. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Most of the votes, 88 for, 5 abstentions, 3 against were accepted to discuss the government's amendment. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Mr. Janic, State Secretary. Here you go, sir. We have an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12370	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable MPs of the Parliament and the honourable MPs of the Parliament. The amendment you have received on your benches is proposed by a series of consultations with the main enlargement committee of the European Commission, and essentially does not refer to a more precise statement in Article 3 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment proposes a new wording of "the exemption from the payment of the profit tax for those periods referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be determined in accordance with the conditions and criteria laid down in the decision to publish the rules on aid for small value." This is practically one more precise formulation of the same bill of amendment and addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12371	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for an amendment from the Government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This amendment was accepted by the majority of votes, 80 for, 9 abstentions and 2 against. And we have an amendment to the Legislative Committee on Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12372	As a predecessor, all amendments to the Legislative Committee are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-24-0.u12373	Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by most votes, 71 votes for, 24 abstentions and nothing against along with accepted amendments. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're continuing to work at the 5th session. Before one notice. Today at 12 o'clock we will have an extension of the agenda and a vote on the transferred and closed agenda points so please... in the assembly room. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, I can now announce that tomorrow's session will begin at 9:00 p.m. with the agenda of budget rebalancing, so not at 9:00 p.m. but at 9:00 p.m., so please adjust your obligations according to that notice. We are now moving to - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Export Act for Double Purpose, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 47. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
