ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21391	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're going back to work. It is up to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z.E. No. 195. Before that, I'd like to inform you that we're going to replace the 7th and 8th points, so the 8th is going to be 7th, 7th is going to be 8. - Final proposal of the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 195 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mrs Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21392	Thank you, Mr. President. In the shortest possible lines. In the emergency procedure, we refer to an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act which we put out of force, or we delete Article 7. The point of that article is to collect from 10 kuna when submitting each customs declaration, irrespective of whether it is an import declaration or an export declaration. According to the current situation, these 10 kunas are paid as customs duties, and these revenues have so far been made available by the customs administration and have been intended for the modernisation and development of the customs service under the Ministry of Finance programme. Following the development of the negotiations in two chapters, Chapter 29 – the Customs Union and Chapter 30 – External Economic Relations, the European Union, or the European Commission, concludes that such an additional customs duty of 10 kuna is contrary to the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement of Articles 19 and 20, i.e. to constitute measures equivalent to those of administrative or technical barriers in freedom, i.e. to the freedom of movement of goods between the Croatian market and the European Union market which do not have any additional customs duty. The Commission therefore considers that this fee is not based on a specific service, i.e. it is impossible to define it and that it does not have a real basis in the work of the customs service but is de facto a flat-rate tax and is held by the opposite practice and by the legal gain of the European Union. In this segment, and starting from the commitments that we have made to Chapter 29, in particular, so the customs union, which is that, as of 1.1, we abolish such an additional fee, the government, according to the Parliament, has referred this bill to an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21393	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21394	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At the 20th session held on 3 December 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 21 November 2008. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the basis of the provision of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question as a parent working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously without discussion to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21395	Thank you. Do the committees want to move on? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On 14 June 2000, The Croatian Parliament adopted the Customs Tariff Act which laid down the rules on the method of accounting for customs duties, the system of the name of goods imported into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or exports from the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia and classified by sections and chapters of the customs tariff. This law also regulated the system of numerical labelling of goods in the customs tariff, the rules on the classification of certain goods in headings and subheadings and tariff headings of customs tariffs, as well as customs duties applicable to imported goods. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The customs tariff law was laid down to pay and customs duties of 10 kuna per one, or each import or export customs declaration lodged when the customs declaration was lodged. The revenue generated on the basis of the legal obligation to pay the tax under the law was provided by the Customs Administration for the financing of the development programme, the modernisation of the customs service. Within the framework of the measures and activities under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and in the framework of the activities related to the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to Chapter 29 of the Customs Union, the European Commission has highlighted the problem of charging all charges charged by the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Administration and those not related to certain additional customs services. Of course, according to this, among the fees of which the fee has been shown is also a disputed customs tax which is charged in accordance with Article 7. The customs tariff law, i.e. a fee of 10 kuna for each individual export or import customs declaration. The European Commission’s view is understandable that this fee constitutes a single duty with the same effect of import and export duties and that such fees violate the provisions of Articles 19 and 20. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. At the same time, the European Commission considers that the payment of a fee of 10 kuna also constitutes a breach of the obligations set out in Article 8. The General Agreement on Customs and Trade, which provides that all fees and public charges charged on import and export must be limited to the amount of the approximate costs of the services carried out. The European Commission is of the opinion that it is not allowed to charge customs duties for the normal regular activities of the customs office. In accordance with all of the above, the European Commission has repeatedly highlighted the need to abolish the payment of this contested fee, i.e. to repeal the rules on the basis of which the tax is charged. It is therefore a rational and understandable proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Administration to initiate the procedure for amending the Customs Tariff Act and deleting Article 7 which provides for the obligation to pay a customs duty of 10 kuna. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports this Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21397	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21398	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law amending the Customs Tariff Act foresees, as we have heard, the suspension of the duty to pay the customs duty when the customs declaration is lodged. The law is passed by an urgent procedure, as one in a series of laws harmonising Croatian legislation with EU regulations. The European Commission, within the framework of the measures and activities related to the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as activities related to the negotiation process for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in Chapter 29. The Customs Union has repeatedly referred to the Ministry of Finance, specifically the Customs Administration, the problem of charging fees for which the customs service does not provide certain services. One such charge whose fee is also disputed is the customs tax to be charged, so now still according to Article 7. The Customs Tariff Act, which stipulates that a customs duty of 10 kuna per declaration shall be paid when the customs declaration is made, and thus the revenue charged shall be directed to the development and modernisation of the customs service. According to the European Commission, customs duties are contrary to the provisions of Articles 19 and 20. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. General Agreement on Customs and Trade. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to abolishing the tax in question on 1 January 2009 in a way that deletes the contested Article 7 in the final proposal of the law. The SDP representative club supports this bill and not only because it represents a step closer to the European Union, but also because it means one less financial burden on economic operators, so a certain financial discharge is both for importers and exporters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21399	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21400	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the proposer. This bill is only at first sight one in a series of technical laws that is not difficult to agree on and support. However, the proposal exposes a number of government failures, specifically Finance Minister Ivan Shuker, who has been appointed by the Customs Administration. ... Thank you very much. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] And now I'm going to explain how. Therefore, first of all, the Republic of Croatia, or its Customs Administration, is charged by an undertaking that is literally called "imposed" at the sight, imposes on the meeting. So by now, 10 kunas had to pay anyone who submitted a simple customs form just to see a customs officer and to hand over that document. Not only that, this bill reveals that the European Commission has repeatedly warned Finance Minister Ivan Shuker that this solution is contrary to your very important documents. The first is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the second is the contract, i.e. the General Agreement on Customs and Trade. The European Commission should not have told us so that we would have known it ourselves, because no one else signed the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Republic of Croatia, joined the process by reading the document and studying it closely. So our Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance have known for years that this is an imposition that does not conform to European norms, but how many years after the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, we get this proposal on the table. Furthermore, it is obvious that the functioning of customs duties, the Customs Administration, is an extremely important element in the process of observing the Republic of Croatia in corruption prevention, in the business of standardising public administration methods that demonstrate compatibility with European Union standards. As for the functioning of the Customs Administration, I am sure this will not be the first and basic issue that we will have to discuss in Parliament as well. The European Commission will certainly warn us of a whole series of other elements, but I am sorry that we must always wait for Brussels to tell us something we know ourselves. Let's just say, for seven years now, a case has been pushed under the carpet in which it was discovered in a tobacco factory's warehouse of 2 million and 700 thousand counterfeit stamps for the export of cigarettes. And to this day, no one has answered, even though the reports have been sent to all the authorities. How is it possible that there are 2 billion and 700 million gallons of oil missing from 2002 to 2006 in the balance sheets of the Customs Administration? We have received an answer to a parliamentary question signed by Deputy Prime Minister Polancec. We waited 61 days for him, not 30 days as long as the regulations were laid down, because it was necessary to coordinate the data with the Ministry of Finance. But unfortunately, unfortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister, unfortunately, the Director of the Customs Administration, did not coordinate the data. How is it possible that a journalist who writes about the failures in the work of the Customs Administration, in oil smuggling business, must have police protection? How is it possible that the Director of the Customs Administration is a person who has never been elected to the competition, even though the Director of the Customs Administration is a place to choose from a public tender? No matter what it is about a person who is also a secretary of state, which is a designated place. He may be the secretary of state appointed, but he can't be head of customs administration. How is it possible that only after a representative question about the failures of the Customs Authority is it possible to order the extraordinary control of all oil suppliers in the Republic of Croatia? How is it possible for the Republic of Croatia to record such a fall in excise duty from oil derivatives in the last six years? How is it possible that in the first nine months of this year the excise duty on oil derivatives is 2% lower than last year? how is it possible when we know that over the past 6 years the number of registered motor vehicles has increased by 35% and the number of motorised tourists entering the Republic of Croatia has increased by 55%? These are all questions that the Director of the Customs Administration will have to ask, and his superior minister of finance will very soon give an answer. Not only this Croatian Parliament, but the entire public. But in order for those who ask these questions to have police protection, I'm warning you now. Cigarette smuggling is one of the topics that directly affects the functioning of the Customs Administration, and unfortunately for the past two months it has been a focus topic. Unfortunately, some announcements about the new impose on cigarettes are once again a story about whether it will strengthen the black market and what the Customs Administration has done to prepare for the new situation. We gave quite confident that the black market was contained, so data for the first 9 months talk about a small number of seized cigarettes in the Republic of Croatia. When we know that only one tobacco producer put about 3 billion kunas into the state budget. And when we know that cigarettes, which are not normally imported into the Republic of Croatia, are sold massively in the markets in the Republic of Croatia, then the question arises. What's the Customs Administration doing? This question is a benign question that we're dealing with today's amendments and additions to the law, but it reveals a lot of dirty laundry. I am taking this opportunity to warn the Croatian Parliament that the time has come to talk openly about what is going on in the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration and in this sense, I propose to the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, to put this topic on the agenda. The HNS club will support this technical law in order to stop robbing those who export, only because they showed one form. But it warns that this is just part of the story we need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21401	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go. And I'm sorry we have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21402	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the inaccuracy of my colleague Beus who said Minister Schuker was the cause and the culprit for why we must now amend this law and align with the European Union. Although he called Minister Shuker, I wouldn't call, nor did I do it on behalf of the club, but I would remind my colleague that on June 14, 2000, this law was passed. And by the provision of Article 7 adopted by the coalition government in which the HNS was also instituting that provision and a fee of 10 kuna in 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21403	Thank you. Mr. Šišljagic, please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21404	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. But, well, for the HDSSB club, no matter who once proposed this provision in law, the Customs Tariff Act. However, the HDSSB club will support this amendment to the Customs Tariff Act. We have also heard that we do not repeat ourselves much, so 10 kuna is therefore given for every declaration, as someone said, to meet without customs or customs administrations doing anything about it, any service activity. What bothers me, it bothers me that it is mentioned in the material itself, and that is stated, that this law, this amendment of the law, is brought on the basis of, of course, our obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but also because it requires the European Commission. Well, let's not do that, if we say for and here in the Croatian Parliament, that's what I quote: "One rational and reasonable move". So let's take these rational and reasonable moves, far ahead of the conditions and points to them by the European Commission, or the European Union. And that, in most cases, we are mainly justified for some amendments and additions to the law, and for this legal regulation to comply with the European Commission, i.e. the European Union. So let's be ourselves rational and reasonable and laws like this, that is to say, change and supplement the law in time, let's make it because we've decided and because we think it's good. And the HDSSB club thinks this law is good. However, something else that I lack is missing in this bill's reasoning, and that's how much is earned by these customs declarations? What's that amount of money? Because it seems to me on our website five or six years ago, it says that such a declaration was somewhere over 2.5 million. Is that true or not? I don't know. But when we make these changes to the law, then I think it would be at least good if the MPs knew what it meant financially. If that's, for example, 2.5 million, that's 25 million. Well, it's not insignificant money. He says this money was focused among other things on modernising the Customs Administration. And it also says in this material that this does not require any change and amendment of this law, does not require any additional cost for the state budget. No funds are needed for the state budget. Where this money went from these 10 kunas to each customs declaration is going to come from, it's not listed here. So, I would ask the Government's representative to explain once again, or to give us information on how much money was collected in 2007 on the basis of Article 7. The customs tariff law is precisely this Article, whose abolition or amendment in this law is proposed. Where that money went, how much funds it was and what it intends to take, given that these funds are no longer available and are intended for the modernisation of the customs administration. Therefore, by expecting answers of course to these questions, the HDSB club will support the proposal to amend this law and we hope that this amendment of this law will in fact not affect a delay in modernising the customs administration but rather the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21405	Thank you. Mrs Tamara Obrazdović Mazal on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21406	I appreciate the question. I'm giving her an answer. According to the Ministry of Finance estimates not for 2007 but for 2008 according to the available unofficial data are not about 25 million kuna, it is about 33 million kuna. Therefore, out of 10 kuna on the basis of each customs declaration, whether it was an export or import yearly income is 33 million kuna. These 33 million kunas thus varying year after year according to the regulations of the customs administration are intended for the equipment and modernisation of work, the operation of surveillance operations, the prevention of smuggling, the detection of intoxicating drugs, the implementation of deep-sea controls, the purchase of prescribed clothing, footwear, the equipment of authorised customs officers, the professional training and training of customs officers and furniture officers, the systematic reception of trainees for their training for work, the remuneration of officials and the furniture on the basis of the performance in the performance of official and work duties, and the cost of the funeral of officials and of the furniture who die in the service or for the purpose of performing of the service as well as the assistance of their family. As for the withdrawal of funds related to the team of 33 estimated million kunas, I believe you will soon have a chance to discuss the budget. A separate budget of the Ministry of Finance of the Customs Administration will also be part of the budget. So you're going to allow me to really not be able to give you a measure and professional answer to the question at this point. However, that part of the budget will be provided to parliamentarians for insight and I assume that it will show the funds that are intended for what 33 million on the basis of this year's spending. I hope you're satisfied with at least the first two answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21407	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21408	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Of course, I support the adoption of this Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act although I must say that, even with the right here, the Customs Administration opposed the suspension of the provisions of Article 7 because, nevertheless, it was the customs declaration, the taxi, the fee of 10 kuna and the revenue thus realised that the current norm of Article 7(2) had warned or determined that, in accordance with the programme of development and modernisation of the customs service, that revenue was precisely intended for that purpose. However, here we agree that here are the holders of either importers or exporters to release this enormous 10 kuna burden. And you see our citizens, no one cares about it, they all pay taxes, the administrative fees that we reduced to 50% in 2001 because they were huge but today they're high, on all queens. It is rare that those who are excluded, and those who are led under official duty, to a copy of the birth certificate, married, dead, and this should be taken out almost for the achievement of other status or some property rights of citizens, and that is all that is necessary for citizens and no one takes care of it, and these are huge amounts. So here we are whining and crying over a huge importer who will have to pay 10 kuna per customs declaration and our citizen in order to achieve any right must pay at least 60-70 kuna to obtain various certificates, copies and so forth. Therefore, by supporting these changes, this should be taken into account. However, this is an opportunity for us to really take a little care of what is happening in the Customs Administration and how to strengthen that service. Namely, customs service, Customs administration is of the utmost importance to combat transnational organised crime but it is said little about it, it is also mentioned in various measures, in the fight against corruption and organised crime but little in this daily effort and efforts to fight that monster is almost negligible and neglected and it should not be so, that I do not repeat everything that my colleague Beus said. In support of the fact that on behalf of the club, our colleague and colleague from the CNS who wonders or determines that it is all the irregularities that the public is saying that these people who point to such irregularities, he has been saying that he has also listed stamps, and the problem with the oil charge of excise duties lately, and he says that these people will have to have police protection. Unfortunately, I do not agree with him here, not because I do not want to agree with him, but simply because it is not because those who have warned about whether they are in the system or outside the system were often subject to processing themselves, and it is precisely a miracle when they point to various irregularities, illegalities, or lawlessness. Namely, the Independent Customs Union keeps shrubing and talking about terrible problems inside the system, calling for inspection services. They, the Independent Customs Union, are talking about the shagging of customs officials, the degradation, the inability to advance and other procedures that have been thrown out by those who have decided to talk about illegalities and irregularities. And instead of the inspection services trying to control these allegations, verify these allegations, such persons are demoted. And then what are we talking about? I think again, on this occasion, I draw attention to the need to deal seriously with all these allegations, not only that my colleague Beus pointed out, but which is constantly being warned by the independent customs union. We are now in a terrible dilemma, or power, whether to freeze wages or not, simply the state budget seems unable to handle it. But today, recently, I own a number of new employees here specifically in the customs administration, of course I'm not going to be talking about political counterparts here right now, because, of course, that's understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21409	Thank you. We've got one, a report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Berislav Roncevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21410	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think that colleague Anticevic has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 210(1), the speaker can only speak about the subject of the agenda. If I am a good reader of this consolidated agenda, the subject of the debate is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act, not a report on the work of the Customs Administration. And that can be debated in the Assembly, but it would be appropriate for representatives, or directors, of his associates to be able to argue, that we can then discuss the data. This is completely out of the debate, the debate is one technical change, the harmonisation of tariffs, not the report on the debate on the work of the customs administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21411	It is difficult to separate it sometimes because some amendments to the law can be discussed, but it is our practice not to interrupt unless it has gone too far to some other extreme and debates about things that have nothing to do with the agenda, but here you are, looking for, here you go, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21412	Thank you, Mr. President, for your understanding, but here is the violation of Article 209 because I did not injure the Rules of Procedure. In fact, it is a colleague here who is the final draft of the law, and when the debate is on the final draft of the law, then you can talk both in general and individually. So we must not only obey the law, the Constitution, but also the Rules of Procedure. Although you are a new representative, that does not justify you from ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21413	He's not exactly new, he's an old representative, in a new council, but he used to be. You know what? We could open a discussion now about what's in the agenda, which is not in the agenda. I try not to be very strict about some, here exactly the emphasised precision, because rightly Mr. Berislav Roncevic says, the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda, and the established agenda is the Amendment and addition of the Customs Code. And there's exactly a certain change and addition. But it's hard to limit it to one or two sentences. So in that sense, we ask you not to step away from the subject of the debate, and then there will be less of a stick lift for the injury, etc. Here, has a replica of Mr. Goran Beus-Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21414	Thank you. counterpart Antičević-Marinović, when the legislator himself says that the European Commission has repeatedly warned the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Finance of the Unsustainability of this provision, then it is clear that there have been certain irregularities in the work of the customs administration responsible for this as part of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, talking about customs administration irregularities is part of this topic. And your reminiscing of those who speak loudly doesn't rule out this story about police protection, because these are the two elements that ring our alarm. So, if journalists who write about it have to get police protection and those who work at the customs administration are being scrawny, then the question is, isn't the staff of those who do business in the customs administration and those who bother the story of smuggling actually obvious from the plane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21415	It's Ms. Nevenka Majdenic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21416	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act harmonizes Croatian legislation with the regulations of the European Union or fulfils the obligation under the negotiations under Chapter 29. Customs union. I think it should be pointed out that since the formal opening of the negotiations on the chapter, therefore, on 29 December 2006 until today, our country has taken a number of activities and measures to fulfil the obligations arising from this negotiating chapter 29, through the harmonisation of legislation, as well as the strengthening of the administrative and operational capabilities of the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration. In line with the obligations arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia has abolished all disputed fees. Since 1 March 2008, the obligation to pay compensation for the use of terminals on exit from the Republic of Croatia has ceased to apply. The obligation to pay the fee for the use of the terminal when entering Croatia ceased to apply on 1 May 2008. The obligation to pay the administrative customs duty ceased to apply on 27 June 2008. After the entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes. And now we have a proposal to abolish the customs duty charged under Article 7. The Customs Tariff Act shall cease to apply from 1 January 2009. Namely, the Customs Tariff Act "The People's No. 61/2000. and 119,2000. the date of entry into force of this Agreement;", it was found that, when the customs declaration was lodged, a customs duty of 10 kn shall be paid under one of the customs declarations lodged. The revenue achieved by that tax was subject to the customs administration in accordance with the needs and standards set out in the Customs Administration Development Programme for the purpose of equipping, modernising work, carrying out operational surveillance operations, training and training of customs officials, and so on. It has already been said that income has been achieved under that article, so 33 million kuna. Therefore, under the draft law, customs duties for the normal activity of the customs service will no longer be charged but will continue to be charged for services which will be provided in special cases by the customs office at the request and the cost of the importer or exporter for, for example, the costs of keeping goods longer than the prescribed time limit, the costs of handing over the customs declaration outside the office time of customs service and so on. Given our commitment to join the European Union, and thus harmonising our legislation with European and, of course, facilitating the business of exporters, here I propose that this law be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21417	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21418	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and colleagues. In 2000, the Customs Tariff Act was adopted and this Law and Customs Tariff as its integral part are governed by the rules on the method of calculation of customs duties, the system of the title of goods imported or exported from the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia by sections and chapters of the customs tariff, the rules on the classification of certain goods in headings and subheadings and headings in the customs tariff and so on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also indicated that these revenues are made available by the customs administration in accordance with the programme of development and modernisation of the customs service. Within the framework of the measures and activities implemented, implemented in the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and in the framework of the activities related to the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in Chapter 29, the European Commission has highlighted the problem of charging all charges charged by the customs administration which are not related to certain additional services provided by the customs service. In accordance with the obligations of the implementation of the SAA and the commitments made under the negotiations for Chapter 29, the Republic of Croatia has committed to abolishing this duty for 1 January 2009. Therefore, the customs administration indicated the need to amend the Customs Tariff Act and delete Article 7 which prescribed the obligation to pay a customs duty of 10 kuna in respect of the customs declaration lodged. I give full support to the adoption of the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21419	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21420	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen from the customs administration. It would be funny to repeat that we will accept this Amendment to the Customs Tariff Act, which has been going on since 2000. Of course it's more than necessary. We have been reminded of the European Union on several occasions. That's what it says in the material itself, but I might even be happy to say this change and that warning because somehow it's indirect that we actually kept this measure, the customs measure, the tariff as long as it could. It turns out that somehow it is close to entering the European Union, so there is no time left for this measure to survive, but here it is being abolished and we are harmonising the legislation on customs duties, tariffs with EU legislation. Since this law is in an emergency procedure, in fact, as someone said the first and second readings and the final draft of the law, I am allowing myself to say something and maybe that comes out a little bit but I say only a little outside the scope of the topic, beyond the framework of this bill proposal, which is that on the 5th electoral unit, so Brodo-Posavia County and Vukovar-Srijem County have a dozen border crossings and that in Slavonia there was a customs office only in Osijek. It took a long time to fight and prepare and request that the customs office be established or founded in Slavonski Brod since it is a county that stretches 130km along the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 4 border crossings and there is a large retail traffic and other traffic in the area as well as in Vukovar-Srijem County not to list the border crossings from Ilock, Tovarnik, Lipovac, Gunje, Župa, Shanca, Slavonski Brod, Svilaj, Stara Gradiška. If I left anyone out, I apologize. However, with the draft customs office in Slavonski Brod, I have witnessed these days that we are getting what news is actually being brought here by a colleague from HNS and colleagues of Antičević-Marinović about the fact that there are different malversions, illegalities and those who are trying to point out that they are experiencing shagging, degradation and then also because of the stress and stress situations that threaten not only with existence but also with physical harassment in the workplace to experience both sickness and disease and to say here and almost concrete occurrence of some of the diseases associated with stress situations in the workplace. It's called mobing somewhere, but this is about actually shorting out certain whistles that, due to the threat of local powers using customs offices for various malfeasances and illegal actions, are experiencing problems of this kind in the workplace. Therefore, it may not be time to talk today about the customs administration and the work of the customs administration and what is happening in these places, but in any case, it would be necessary to make sure that in this country the inspections and all other controls so that no such cases would occur and that some local powers would not use customs offices, in order to be prosperous, let us call so without paying customs duties, tax taxes and all other things that belong to them under the law. It is clear that this law, which has two, three pages and in which it is clearly and loudly said in three sentences, will be abolished the tariff of 10 kuna for, here for the view of the customs officer on some kind of goods or some kind of document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21421	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not normally intend to report in an individual debate on this subject, however, I was offered this reminder, so that this customs duty was imposed in 2000, so at the time of the coalition government and it was true that it was introduced at that time, but whether it was not hypocritical to remind me of it and to have 5 years to pay the customs duty more than the European Commission in, we heard, on several occasions, that the payment of the court fees was contrary to both the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the General Agreement on Customs and Trade. However, after hearing the State Secretary's statement, it is clear why the customs duty has not expired so far. Because she brought more than 30 million kuna into the state register. Sometimes more, sometimes less, depending on the number of declarations submitted. Therefore, it is difficult to give up such a beautiful income, especially if it does not literally require any counterproduction for it, and therefore it has waited for it to do so for so long, so until the last moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21423	Thank you very much. It could have changed since we signed the Association Agreement and, as it is called, stabilisation and accession. It could have been then, so it's more than 5 years that this law could have been harmonised. So we're more specific, and you're otherwise right that it could have been five years, but it could've been more. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we'll decide when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending the customs tariff law. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 195. The debate is closed. I'm putting it to the vote. Final draft law amending the customs tariff law. Who is for this final bill, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, the proposal for a law amending the customs tariff law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21426	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, before you, there is a final proposal for a law on financial conglomerates. Allow me, here in the introductory word immediately to first and fundamentally define the financial conglomerate and how this final bill makes it. So the financial conglomerate is defined as a group of undertakings that meet, we say two out of three fundamental terms, we can say institutional conditions, which are that at least one entrepreneur from the group is an insurance company and that at least one entrepreneur from a group or a credit institution or an investment company. In addition to these basics, we can say the institutional conditions of Articles 3, 4 and 5, additional conditions are laid down concerning group activities and the percentage share of balance sheet positions in the group. What are the objectives, the basic objectives of proposing this law? On the one hand, we have a harmonisation with the Directive on additional supervision of credit institutions of insurance companies and investment companies in the financial conglomerate, and on the other, it is the introduction of additional supervisory over a group of related entrepreneurs in the financial sector currently individually regulated and supervised under certain sectoral regulations. This esteemed Parliament has already adopted Insurance, Credit Institutions and the Capital Market which, of course, refers to this sectoral part. As regards this harmonisation with the European Union, it should therefore be said that this is a 2002 directive on additional supervision of credit institutions, insurance companies and investment companies in the financial conglomerate. However, it should also be said that the adoption of the Law on Credit Institutions, on the Capital Market and the Insurance Act, the legislative framework of the financial sector is in line with these sectoral regulations of the European Union, but the development of the financial market allows for the creation of financial groups that provide services and products in different financial sectors, i.e. these financial conglomerates. So far, there has been no supervision at the level of such groups consisting of the credit institutions of the insurance company, i.e. reinsurance companies and investment firms which are part of such a conglomerate, in particular as regards the situation of insolvency and the concentration of risk at the level of the conglomerates, intra-group transactions, the internal risk management process at the level of the conglomerates and the reliability and expertise of the administration. The law also provides for exceptions for the identification and conditions of exclusion of persons from the group and defines additional parameters for the determination of the financial conglomerate, as well as for the data used in the determination and notification of the existence and termination of the financial conglomerate. This law defines additional supervisory supervision as a supervisory exercise over the operations of the financial conglomerate, which is carried out by the body responsible for supervisory supervision under sectoral regulations. So once again, the Credit Institutions Act, the capital and insurance market, and of course those institutions that carry out the additional supervisory work are the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the Croatian National Bank. The bill defines exactly who in certain cases is coordinators and the head of this additional surveillance, i.e. supervisory supervision. The law also found that the introduction of an additional supervisory review does not affect the powers of the HANFA and the Croatian National Bank on the basis of sectoral regulations and in relation to the supervision of the business or supervisory of regulated entities on a single basis. This law would enter into force in 1.1.2009, with individual provisions governing cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States entering into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. According to already mentioned sectoral regulations and laws adopted, the deadline for compliance with the provisions of this law is until 30.6.2009 and should also be said that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources, additional resources from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21427	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr. Goran Maric, chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21428	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 3 December 2008 the proposal for a law on financial conglomerates with the Final Proposal for Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 27 November 2008. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the basis of the provision of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question as a parent working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously without discussion to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Financial Conglomerates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21429	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. By adopting the Law on Credit Institutions, the Capital Market Act and the Insurance Act, the legislative framework of the financial sector of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the sectoral regulations of the European Union. The law on credit institutions is defined by the notion of a credit institution which accurately defined the basic financial services which together with banking services make up a set of mutually known services, recognised services that credit institutions from the Republic of Croatia will be able to provide in the area of other Member States and which credit institutions from other Member States will be able to provide in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The law further specifies the powers of the Croatian National Bank to quickly and effectively prevent and effectively through instruments set up by law, and unless it effectively resolves any crisis situations in the business of credit institutions. The law on credit institutions is governed by supervision of credit institutions in such a way that the Croatian National Bank carries out a super-vision of credit institutions which verifys whether credit institutions operate in accordance with the rules on risk management of other provisions of that law, the regulations adopted under that law and other laws governing the conduct of financial activities carried out by credit institutions and regulations adopted under those laws as well as their own rules, standards and rules of the profession. At the same time, the Capital Market Act regulated the conditions for the establishment, business, supervision and termination of the existence of an investment company, a market operator and an operator of a screening and intent system in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency shall have the power to verify whether an investment firm which is a supervisory entity is in accordance with the provisions of the Capital Market Act in accordance with the regulations adopted on the basis of it as well as in accordance with its own rules, standards and rules of the profession and in a way that enables the orderly functioning of the capital market and the implementation of measures and activities to eliminate identified illegalities and irregularities. However, the new development of the financial market enables financial groups to provide services or products to different financial sectors, etc. financial conglomerates. So far, there has been no supervision at the group level of credit institutions, insurance companies, i.e. reinsurance and investment companies which are part of such a conglomerate, in particular as regards the situation of insolvency and concentration of the risk at the level of the conglomerates, intra-group transactions, internal risk management procedures at the level of the conglomerates and the reliability and expertise of the administration. In order to achieve the desired results, additional supervision of credit institutions, insurance companies or the resecuritisation of investment firms in the financial conglomerate shall apply to all conglomerates that have an important cross-sectoral financial activity, which is the case when certain thresholds are crossed regardless of how they are structured. Additional supervision shall cover all financial activities set out in sectoral financial regulations and all business entities including asset management companies which are the main activity. The adoption of this law in the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia implements Directive 2002/87 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on additional supervision of credit institutions, insurance companies, investment companies in the financial conglomerate. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports this proposal for a law on financial conglomerates because it regulates an area that has not been regulated by a special law in the Republic of Croatia and regulates the substantive adaptation to additional supervisories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21431	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21432	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me say that the SDP Representatives' Club will support the adoption of a proposal, i.e. the Law on Financial Conglomerates, primarily because of what this area is, as has been said before, which has not been governed by a special law in our country so far, and we believe that it should be regulated and defined. This is another one I would like to say to the benefit of the negotiations and accession of Croatia to the European Union because we are passing a law that we have not adopted ourselves so far, and it is necessary and we need to adopt it in order to close chapter 9 in negotiations with the European Union dealing with financial services. So in some ways, we can say that here is Europe and in this area of protection and control of a particular market has helped us to pass a law that we have not passed so far. Are there any financial conglomerates in Croatia at all? Well, that's one question we'll probably get an answer to when there are criteria to determine whether or not and who are conglomerating in Croatia, but I think we're going to have a little problem with this issue because most of the Croatian banks and these related companies are owned by foreign owners. Perhaps something is telling you, 61 financial conglomerates have been established in Europe so far, including Grawe, Winterdorf, Generals, Intesa, all companies already present in Croatia, some and owners of Croatian banks, so that they are already partially and partly regulated and controlled by the European Commission, or European Union countries. Several companies will definitely appear in Croatia to be candidates to become financial conglomerates and still owned by Croatia. What makes us feel that there is a need to have additional control, or supervisory over financial conglomerates? We think it is not enough to control only these companies, companies that are already under the regulators such as HANFA or HNB, because situations such as Hypo Alpe Adria Group in Austria, where at the level of certain members of the groups that were under the regulatory authorities, everything seemed to be fine, and then finally it was seen that when all companies were summed up to show a loss, i.e. there is a risk for citizens who are used by the services of certain groups. What we think is particularly important is that the HNB or HANFA supervisors, depending on which companies will be dominant within the conglomerates, provide that additional supervisory, additional information to make Croatian citizens safer when using the financial conglomerate service. Finally, I think this law is necessary and we think it should be supported and that eventually all Croatian citizens will get another additional security using the financial services, that is, the information they need to be safer on the market on which financial conglomerates operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21433	Thank you very much, fellow representative. Now on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished colleague Zlatko Koračević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will also support the proposal for a law on financial conglomerates. The Financial Conglomerates Act itself is one of the specific financial laws that we need to adopt in order to close chapter 9 in negotiations with the European Union, which deals with financial services. Its intensity and task is to further improve and coordinate the supervision of financial groups providing products and services in different financial sectors. This law is the duty of regulators to monitor, step forward with the development of the market, to have a better overview of the financial situation of mixed financial groups, i.e. that at least has some insight into the business of conglomerates as their owners do. The application of this law will reflect more real system solutions, legal and sublegislative acts, other regulations that will monitor further development of the financial markets of the Republic of Croatia, and thus their involvement in the European Union's financial market and the global financial market. So far in Croatia, let's remind ourselves, only members of groups, banks, insurance houses, and groups of similar financial institutions, e.g. banking groups, but supervision and limitation at group level, consisting of combinations of banks and insurance or investment companies and insurance so far have not existed. For example, at the level of the conglomerates, for example, it will have to be calculated and at a certain level to maintain the adequateness of capital. In addition, financial conglomerates will be obliged to report at least once a year on group risk concentration, as well as on significant intra-conglomerates transactions which, as the practice has shown, can lead to cavities in consolidated reports. The Supervisor of the Croatian National Bank or the HANFA will be able to conglomerates, which it concludes are at risk of insolvency or within a group transaction or risk concentration jeopardising the financial situation, order measures to improve the financial position. In fact, it is quite possible that as proven, it proves an example of the Austrian Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank, which was also spoken of by fellow Maras, that some members show positive results, and that consolidation shows that everything is actually hollow and that the total total is loss. The law on financial conglomerates should not specifically change the manner of business or the scope of reporting, as banks are already under supervisory supervision and Croatian National Banks and HANFA today. The unification of supervisory institutions, if it results in a more effective supervisory vision, will also have a positive impact on development, above all in terms of better investor protection. It should be warned and warned by institutions that will be subject to supervision, the need for the coordination of supervision to be effective and that the same data will not be requested in different formats from both regulators, i.e. it will establish a system of communication and exchanges in order not to increase the cost of business to banks, insurance companies, funds and others entering the definition of the financial conglomerate. In the Croatian People's Party, we support the adoption of this legislative proposal, as well as all others who impose the necessary order on the financial market, thereby opening up the potential of the financial market. At the same time, however, we propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and ask why and why it prevents us from realising a longer present idea of establishing a strong financial conglomerate owned, controlled by the state. We believe that the necessity, especially at the moment when it has clearly made a mistake in the privatisation process, with the error of the state of Croatia, has given up its financial sovereignty. The sovereignty that is necessary and especially necessary in today's economy of extremely difficult and particularly uncertain business conditions, moments in which there are still no too many indications to create conditions for the preservation of jobs. Why and why not go into a strong financial conglomerate under the control of the state and what prevents us from establishing a financial conglomerate with the potential of the Croatian Postal Bank, Croatia Insurance, the Financial Agency and the Mandatory Pension Fund? Which prevents us from going through a possible state... We don't use potential and profit from cca. 3.5 billion kuna, profits on state resources, billions of whose vast majority of foreign-owned banks are coming out of the country through profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to remind you that foreign owners of the domestic banking sector have withdrawn 4 billion kuna profits this year. The fact is that we have missed and we have not made ourselves firmer towards the banking sector and with the fact that by guaranteeing up to 400,000 kunas of savings, which is a good measure and the moment it was adopted in this House, it was extremely necessary, necessary, with that fact, that the state guarantees banks owned by cca. 100 billion kuna saving citizens. Did we draw from this fact from foreign-owned banks any benefits for the domestic economy? Recent measures by the Croatian National Bank released 8.5 billion kuna on the financial market. How much and what concrete benefits will the Republic of Croatia's economy benefit? And following all this, we in the Croatian People's Party are convinced that the financial conglomerate under the control of the state would unite all the important services and products that exist on the financial market and that it would be indisputable to compete with foreign-owned banks, and on the other hand it would be a necessary lever in the development of the economy, and at this economic moment and job-saving.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21435	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague, representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the law on financial conglomerates is the last to be harmonised in order to close Chapter 9 in negotiations with the European Union, i.e. the area of financial services. In fact, this financial area has so far not been defined by the specific laws of the Republic of Croatia. Let us remind ourselves, we have passed the Law on Credit Institutions, the Capital Market Act, the Insurance Act and harmonised these financial sectors legislatively with the sectoral regulations of the European Union. The development of the financial market enables financial groups, financial conglomerates providing services and products in different financial sectors, with a view to achieving the synergy effect in all phases and areas of business. From raising funds in different sources, rational management of these funds, more input placements to risk dispersion. Of course, this means strengthening the financial potential of the total group, so total but also for providing each type of services, i.e. in certain segments of the financial market. At the same time, the possibility of obtaining different services in one place often in the financial package, so it means lower total costs, and thus cheaper service to users. Thus, the combined financial business becomes a strong element of competitiveness for regulated entities, credit institutions, investment companies or insurance companies depending on what makes up the financial conglomerate. It is certain that the combined business also carries certain risks, as potential problems in one sphere are also transferred to the overall business of the financial conglomerate. This law lays down rules for the additional supervisory of regulated entities that have been granted work in accordance with specific sectoral regulations governing the business of credit institutions, investment firms or insurance companies, i.e. resecuritisation that constitutes a financial conglomerate. The intensity of the law is therefore to further improve the supervision of financial groups that are in different financial sectors providing products and services. The supervision carried out over the operations of financial conglomerates will therefore be carried out by the HANFA, i.e. the Croatian National Bank, depending on the overarching competence of the review, or the supervision of the business. The supervisor will be able to conglomerate if he finds that insolvency or within a group transaction or risk concentration threatens financial positions in any way, order the implementation of measures to improve the financial position. Financial conglomerates, i.e. the group leader, also has an obligation to report regularly and at least once a year to the coordinator, so to the Croatian people, the bank or the HANFA, on the more significant within the group transactions of regulated entities, as well as the significant concentration of risk at the level of the financial conglomerate. In addition, the financial conglomerate must, as I find extremely important, take into account the adequateness of the guarantee capital and report to the coordinator. In the absence of the adequateness of the guarantee capital in the manner prescribed in Article 17(1) of the Law, one of the serious infringements and regulated entities shall be subject to between 500 thousand and one million kuna. Of course there are other infringements in the event of non-compliance with this law, and all for the security of the financial market. Based on this, and in order to maintain a truly stable financial market in Croatia and at this level, I will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21437	Thank you very much. And respected colleague Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21438	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So it's very short. I think what my colleague Maras said is crucial, and it is pointed out that this law defines and reduces the risks of this particular control. So within sectoral business within the financial conglomerate itself. So, if citizens invest in some fund, the Peace Fund or any part of the financial conglomerate, and it's liquid, so it's doing a good job, and some other part of the financial conglomerate is doing a bad job, in this way it can happen that their risk of bad business is increased due to bad things and it's good to carry out additional supervisory work. But there's a sign. I'll open two questions. First, the question concerns the 40% limit for defining the area of supervisory. So 40% is the limit on which some regulated activity enters the definition of a financial conglomerate. What will happen and what is the way to potentially prevent is to regulate the financial conglomerate if the company itself, or the financial conglomerate, in order to avoid that limit, includes another activity in its group, in order to be below that limit. So, as the ministry, or as the legislator predicted that possibility since the 40% limit is not, I think it is not in line with the European directives, it is our assessment and it has been done based on the assessment of our markets. And that is why it is crucial that we have control in that part, especially because they are banks, only in the first 9 months of this year, which were mostly owned by foreign governments, had profits in Croatia of 5 billion kuna. But I have to remind myself that banks are mostly owned by foreign governments and they have a supervisory vision in their home countries. So they're supervisory in their countries of origin. And now I'm curious, how much do you expect as well, according to current estimates that financial conglomerates could be found at the time of the adoption of this law in Croatia? And also that cost of additional regulation that isn't foreseen here will probably bear the financial conglomerates themselves. And I want to know how much this cost will be, that is, how much it will burden the conglomerates that are owned by Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21439	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. First one notice. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Selem, informs that the Continuation of the 10th session of the Committee will be held today, Thursday, 4 December at 14.00 at the hall "Ivana Kukuljevic". Would the motionary's representative like to take the floor? Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21440	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I, above all, would like to thank you for this debate and for your comments and for your support for the law. Let me just take a moment to get back to this last thing we heard. So, the honourable representative in Article 4 is exactly what you said, so these 40% were put as a limit to the definition of the financial conglomerate. And precisely for the reasons that you have stated, we have made it a little bit stronger in paragraphs 2 and 3 with the additional conditions that we define we can say so at least in the law, the importance of the existence of a financial conglomerate. That's this 10%. Therefore, that the share of the total, therefore within the group of financial services provided by the entire conglomerate, more than 10%, is also another thing that we have provided for in the law, which is Article 7 where we have in fact given additional space to supervisors or supervisors in some way, if they consider that additional supervision or supervisory supervision should be carried out in a particular legal person they consider to be able to have indications of the financial conglomerate that they also have with this. Anyway, we've stepped it up, too. And let me finally just reflect and return to the comments or amendments that we received from the Legislative Committee. We've received five amendments that are all acceptable and the government accepts them. I only have one note. In the third amendment, I think it's tipfeller, so here we are, and we've discussed it. For the purposes of Article 32(2) of the introductory wording, point 2 is replaced by the following: Anyway, all five amendments are accepted by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21441	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21442	8. Final draft law on financial conglomerates, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 215. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted these amendments. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I am voting on the final draft law on financial conglomerates. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The proposal for a law on financial conglomerates was adopted unanimously by 111 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21443	Now we're going back, or that's going to be the 8th point. - Final draft law supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 201 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate on this law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We've received reports from the board. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Ivica Mladneo State Secretary and Director of the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21444	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary MPs, distinguished parliamentary representatives. The proposal for a law supplementing the Tax on Profits Act means we don't change the law but we supplement it. The main issues covered by the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Profit Taxes is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation or the Law on profit tax with the acquis of the European Union. As regards the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, or related to the negotiating position for the negotiating chapter 16 – Taxes, it has proved necessary to supplement the provisions of the Tax on Profits Act in accordance with the legal property of the European Union. It is about harmonising the tax system of the Republic of Croatia with Council Directives 90/424 of the European Economic Community and 205 of the Economic Community on the common taxation system applicable to mergers, division, transfer of assets and replacement of shares of companies from different Member States of the European Union. In addition, Council Directive 90/4235 and 2003/121 on the common taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States and Council Directive 203/49 on the common system of taxation applicable to interest payments and copyright fees between related companies located in different Member States. Directive 90/434 and 205/19 which provides for a system of taxation applicable to mergers, divisions, transfer of assets and exchanges of shares provides that the common tax system should avoid taxation in connection with merger, division, transfer of assets and replacement of shares of related companies from Member States under the prescribed conditions. The directive is not aimed at avoidance but at postponing taxes in those transactions, which means postponing taxes until the moment of estrangement, or until sale. Applying the Tax Taxation Act for profit tax on status changes relating to companies in the Republic of Croatia. Council Directive 90/435 and 2003/123 on the taxation of companies of mothers and companies of daughters of different members in the Tax on Profits Act has already been harmonised in the tax system of Croatia. I Council Directive 203/49 on the common system of taxation applicable to interest payments and copyright fees between related companies located in different Member States, the suspension of interest payments taxes and copyright fees in the country of origin is the most appropriate means of ensuring equal tax treatment for intra-country transactions and among Member States. The tax related to such payments between related companies located in different Member States of the European Union should be abolished as between permanent business units of such companies. According to the applicable Law on interest income tax and the copyright fee paid by the foreign payer to the non-resident in the law, a 15 % payment is envisaged but a double taxation contract has been concluded with most members and these rates have been reduced. I just have to point out that in harmonising these directives which is one of the most difficult areas in taxation in cooperation with the tax administrations of England, Austria, Slovenia and the Netherlands and Ireland we have discussed and with their assistance has been harmonised. Otherwise, as regards the funds that would be less charged, it is envisaged to be around 50 million kuna, but I must note that this law only takes effect by entering the European Union. And for the sake of compliance with the European Union, it is envisaged to be adopted by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21445	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the rapporteurs, on behalf of the board, want to take the floor? On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, distinguished colleague Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21446	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 20th session held on 3 December 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Profit Tax with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 27 November 2008. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the basis of the provision of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question as a parent working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously without debate to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on profit tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21447	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? Likewise. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Profit Tax, based primarily on the harmonisation of Croatian legislation, i.e. the Law on profit tax with the acquis of the European Union, and all in accordance with Directive 90/424, 90/425, 2003/49 and 2005/19. The harmonisation with Council Directives 90/4234 and 2005/19 concerns the common taxation system applicable to the merger of assets, the division of assets, the transfer of assets and the replacement of shares of companies from different Member States of the European Union and all with the aim of delaying the taxation of profits and capital gains from the reorganisation of business or with a view to the protection of Member States' tax rights. This will remove obstacles to the establishment and functioning of the single market and avoid the possibility of double taxation. In order to create conditions within the European Union as a condition of a single market for merger, division, partial division of transfer of assets and replacement of shares of commercial states from different Member States, it is necessary to introduce neutral tax rules in order to maintain a competitive environment. All economic operators therefore expect the process of adapting to the requirements of the common market, which will ultimately lead to an increase in their efficiency, i.e. productivity and the improvement of their competitive power in the international economic environment. The common tax system removes the disadvantages of tax regulations in relation to business activities but at the same time allows the Member State to refuse to apply the directive when the merger, division, transfer of assets and the replacement of shares is achieved in order to avoidance or evasion of taxes. The existing Law on Profits in Articles 19 and 20 lays down taxation issues in the case of status changes in commercial companies in the Republic of Croatia and it was necessary to implement Council Directives 90/42434 and 2005/19 in order to extend the non-taxation of transactions in the status changes of companies and cross-border transactions. By applying such a legal framework, non-taxation means actually delaying tax payments until the moment of sale of companies, so that the tax system does not become a limiting factor in the freedom of movement of capital. Council Directive 2003/49 concerning a common system in the taxation of interest payments and copyright fees between tax companies in different Member States ensures that payment of interest and copyright fees is taxed only once and only in one Member State. In this case, Member States may not apply the provisions of the Directive if the State assesses that it is a fraud, fraud or abuse. According to the current Law on Tax on Profit, that is, the provisions of Article 31 of the Tax on Profit are a tax tax which taxes the profits made by non-residents in the Republic of Croatia and the tax base of the tax after deduction is the gross amount of the tax which... pay the non-resident, i.e. the foreign recipient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the existing Law on profit tax, deduction is paid on interest and on copyright and other intellectual property rights paid to foreign persons who are not natural persons at 15%. The harmonisation of the existing law with Council Directive 2003/49 repeals the provisions on the payment of taxes after deduction of interest and the copyright fees made by non-restrained persons in the Republic of Croatia. The objective of Council Directive 90/4235 is to allocate, in cases where a parent company, based on its status in relation to a subsidiary, profits from a country whose mother State has its head office, must either not tax such income, or to tax that income and allow the parent company to reduce its tax liability by the amount of the profit tax paid in the State's daughter. This proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Profit Taxation is in line with Council Directive 90/4235 on the common taxation applicable to the parent companies and subsidiaries of the daughters of different Member States, thus ensuring fiscal neutrality because the dividend distributed by the company to the mother is exempt from the tax after deduction. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of specific resources in the state budget but its application will certainly result in a slight reduction of income from profit tax. It is known that in the 2007 profit tax application, 99,000 805 taxpayers were filed and that profit tax was charged in 2007. 8 billion 646 million 621 thousand and 434 kuna, and 169 million 753 thousands and 838 kuna were charged from profit tax on deduction in 2007. This Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act is an even better step forward and such an already quality legal framework relating to profit tax. One economic cynic long ago said that the art of taxation is the art of taking as many feathers as possible with as little nausea. In Croatia, the indicators suggest that from 2001 to 2007, from the profit tax, the Republic of Croatia has entered the state budget with a billion and 907 thousand in 2001 to 8 billion and 800 in 2007, and the projection of the tax on profit tax in 2008 is more than 10 billion kuna. This just means that the profit tax framework is extremely encouraging for the Croatian economy and that it certainly contributes to the growth of economic activities and new investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21449	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. The purpose of this proposal for this law is that neither the status nor the reorganisation and business changes in companies in the euro area or the European Union are carried out without tax burdens until the actual sale is made. I therefore stress that the purpose of the legal and economic system of the Republic of Croatia is to comply with the directives of the Council of the European Union on the common taxation system applicable to merger, division, transfer of assets and replacement of shares of companies from different Member States of the European Union. The '90s directive experienced changes and additions in 2005. We are installing both of them into the Croatian legal system. ... Directive No 49 of 2003 on the common taxation system applicable to payments of interest on copyright fees between related companies in different Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What should we stress here? The Government as a Proposer is talking about the form of harmonisation, not the content of the effects on the economic life of the Republic of Croatia after entering the European Union. There is no court of value, there is no assessment of how much such law and such legal solutions can help the economy of the Republic of Croatia when it enters the European Union and how competitive the ability of Croatian economic operators to compete equally in the European Union under these conditions. In this poor economic development of the Republic of Croatia and could I say to the under-competitive economy of the Republic of Croatia whether such a law will help or help? The bill only deals with physics. And here we have heard what consequences for the Croatian budget are expected by applying this law. That's not enough. The meaning of lawmaking is not only a fiscular but an uplifting economy from which the budget is being filled. What does the European Union want with this law? It wants to remove obstacles to the functioning of the single European market, and this primarily refers to double taxation that is possible. Then remove specific benefits that individual members of the European Union or candidates for the European Union provide for their economic operators. Such a situation does not correspond to the development of a single European market. It also highlights the role of this law. But have we, in accepting such a law or in preparation for the entry into the European Union in the period that we have provided and raised the competitive capacity of Croatian, commercial and Croatian entities as a whole, so that, after entering the European Union, they can easily transfer their parts of the company or even some whole of it to certain European Union countries? Either the process will take place that individual companies from the European Union will transfer part of their business or parts to Croatia. That the law has been adopted as a higher goal of entering the European Union and this is in the light of this bill, not as economic, support for the Croatian economy and raising its competitive capacity. From the very explanation on page 3, I'm going to have to quote it. So "As the provision of the applicable Tax Tax on Profit is prescribed so when merger, attaching or dividing companies in the Republic of Croatia there is a continuity of taxation. It also has no impact on taxation. The same should be prescribed for cross-border merger, division, partial division of the transfer of assets and exchange of shares. As regards the above and since it is a matter of postponing the tax until the actual sale of the company, we believe that the transposition of those Directives, quoted here under the Tax on Profits, will not affect the tax on profits," and now this qualification "will not have a significant impact on the reduction of income from profit tax". And there's nothing else the government has to say about this bill. This is, of course, quantified, and it is said that the budget will lose, for example, two million and 600 million or 50 million on the other hand, which is not a major item if it is a higher goal to join the European Union but our goal is not to join the European Union but rather to make a better life in the European Union and a more capable economy in the European Union. That's not what this proposal says. Of course, this higher goal also supports the SDP but cannot be seen by the SDP club that training the Croatian economy is so to say in the third, third-ranking priorities of this government, and that the first priority is formal harmonisation of acts with Acqui Communityair. No matter what effects we can count on, we will vote in favour of this bill, but we must remain in the sense that the meaning is not formal harmonisation but essential harmonisation and life by the new criteria that provide us with a better life in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21451	Thank you very much, fellow representative. There's no more club registrations. We're moving on to individual ten minutes of debate. First of all, distinguished counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go. He's giving up the debate. Further application of the esteemed colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Probably in the time since we have passed the last amendments to the Law on Profit Tax and since the time when this bill in the Government has been prepared to date, there have been major changes in the economy and financial situation in, not only Croatia but in Europe. I expected that the government would use these amendments of the law for another proposal that would greatly affect particularly medium and small entrepreneurs, which is the part where I should have suggested not to tax the profits that are reinvested or not derived from the company, society, from companies. In the time in which we have every investment either in the facility, whether in technology or technique which, in particular, means not only opening new jobs but also saving existing jobs. Any investment that means improving our economy's competitiveness because of this and the economic and financial crisis is even more important. Entrepreneurs who enter the investment these days use part of their profits must invest first in real estate, may also avoid paying for the refurbishment of agricultural land into construction, but certainly will not avoid that for each hall, every plant that builds and invests has to pay water contribution so that we have one absurd situation that those who have not obtained from the company have not distributed and distributed any dividend, have not invested in the purchase of yachts, aircraft and other luxury, have not cheaped on salaries and have achieved a profit of investment in this difficult financial time, and to this profit first obtained by the state determines their tax, and through the investment there are various burdens, burdens that such investments collect. That is why I felt and believe that it would be extremely important that both because of this financial crisis, but also because of the transformation into an operation of that declaration that we want to help entrepreneurs to come to new investments as easily as possible because this law and the state's move not to tax the profits that remained in the commercial society, there would be another concrete contribution in the company so that Croatia could also cope with this serious economic and economic crisis that has affected Europe as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21453	Thank you very much. Honorable colleague, Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21454	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Following these amendments to the Tax on Profits Act, two important areas will be regulated and two groups of issues will be edited. As regards the first group of issues, it relates to the tax treatment of mergers, the accession of divisions, the transfer of the economic unit, the takeover of shares and the change of the headquarters of companies on the route of Croatia and some of the other Member States of the European Union. The law defines each of these status or business changes and introduces the general rule that such transactions are tax neutral. The introduction of such tax rules is Croatia's obligation to create a legislative framework for freedom of movement of capital, one of the 4 freedoms on which the single market of the European Union is based. In fact, we now apply most of these tax rules in Croatia, but only between commercial companies based in Croatia. The amendments to the Tax on profit of a business combination also become tax neutral in the event of a situation between entities established outside the country of Croatia, provided that they are Member States of the European Union. The introduction of these tax benefits will normally reduce income from profit tax into our budget as is the material that is estimated to lose 2.5 million kunas of income in the first year of profit tax, and this amount will increase every year. In the long term, however, such a tax regulation should foster a variety of forms of business combinations between our companies and companies in the Member States of the European Union, which also opens up development perspectives for the longer term. As far as these other groups of issues are concerned, according to the now applicable Law on Profit Tax, non-residents who earn income from interest in Croatia and from copyright fees and other intellectual property rights are obliged to pay 15% of the income tax in our country. The amendments to this law propose that non-residents established in the Member States of the European Union will no longer pay income tax in Croatia. Otherwise, even now, non-residents from the countries with which Croatia applies double taxation contracts generally do not pay income tax in Croatia, and now it is only extended to all members of the European Union. It is estimated that this provision will result in less revenue in our state budget for about 50 million kuna a year. Both amendments to the Law on Profit Tax will only take effect on the date of Croatia's accession into membership of the European Union. It is therefore justified to expect that reduced income from profit tax conditional upon the fulfilment of the requirements of the European Union Directive will be compensated by the development and market opportunities opened for Croatia once it becomes a member of the European Union. In fact, the same rules will apply to Croatian companies operating in the Member States of the European Union, which effectively eliminates obstacles to the functioning of the European Union as a single market. If we want to be part of the single European market, Croatia must provide foreign companies with the same tax benefits that Croatian companies will have in the Member States of the European Union and it is good in this law, the law proposed that the provisions under which the exemptions described will not apply if the supervision process determines that business entities have abused tax exemptions for tax evasion or avoidance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21455	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21456	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we started this session today and this Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Profit Taxation is related to the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, and regarding the conclusion of accession negotiations with the European Union so that when we soon become a member of the European Union we would not only have harmonised legislation, but we also have legal assumptions that we can benefit from the rights and benefits that this membership will certainly bring us. In this particular case, therefore, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on profit tax is a matter of complementarity to the directives of the Council of Europe. The application of the first Directive concerns a common system of taxation applicable to mergers, divisions, transfer of assets and exchanges of shares, companies from different Member States. This application of the Directive was implemented in Article 1 of the proposed supplement to add, in this case, 17 new articles supplementing our tax system in this case, the profit tax after Article 20 of the existing law. It is thus precisely defined what is considered to be a commercial company to the resident of a Member State of the European Union to which the common taxation system applicable to mergers, division, partial division, transfer of assets and replacement of shares of companies from different Member States of the European Union and for the transfer of European Society’s headquarters. These complements introduce tax rules that are neutral from the point of view of competitiveness, thus allowing entrepreneurs to adapt to the requirements of the common market, increase their productivity and improve their competitive power at international level. The common tax system may provide a satisfactory solution in this respect and avoid taxation when mergers, divisions, transfer of assets and exchanges of shares between companies. The application of the second Directive provides for a common system of taxation applicable to interest payments and copyright fees between related companies located in different Member States of the European Union. This ensures that interest payments and copyright fees are taxed only once in one Member State. The provisions of the second Directive are incorporated in Article 3 of the proposed amendments to the Tax on Profits Act, which adds the new title "Determining and paying taxes per deduction" which regulates payment of interest and copyright fees with four new articles legally and from the tax point of view. I think it is important to note that a Member State has the possibility to reject the application of those Directives when the merger, division, transfer of assets and exchanges of shares are realised with a view to avoiding or tax evasion. And at the end of everything, I suggest that the bill on profit tax supplements be accepted, of course by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21457	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21458	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It should be said that the profit tax is one of those taxes which directly affects the competitiveness of the national economy and which is in some way an incentive for foreign investment. Given the level of tax rate and the level of economic activity, profit tax is not a major budgetary item in the Republic of Croatia, but it is certain that if the law entered the European Union before entering the European Union, so that it would certainly act on competitiveness but in a negative sense. We are in line with European Union legislation with this law. The law shall enter into force on the day of entry into the European Union and shall aim at removing tax differences and tax barriers to the functioning of the common market of the European Union, in particular the double taxation system. Therefore, the aim of this harmonisation is to introduce tax rules that are neutral among Member States and which will not create unfair competition because of the specificity of tax systems. These barriers and differences in the tax system relate to a different regulated tax system for the merger, division and transfer of assets and the replacement of shares of companies from different Member States, and then to a different set-up system of taxation applicable to the payment of interest and copyright fees between Member States and third countries, on common taxation applicable to the companies of mothers and companies of the daughters of different Member States. This harmonisation and these existing directives that we coordinate with should be seen in the context of both announced tax reforms and in the European Union. The aim of these reforms in the European Union is to harmonize tax systems and for the purpose of equating both tax bases and tax rates in all Member States with the view at this point that a greater problem is therefore the functioning of the common and single market, so for this operation to make tax rates. The average tax rate at the level of the new members of the European Union, so those who joined in 2004, so Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia is about 22-21%, so on average I don't know from Cyprus of 10%, Latvia 15%, to not know Slovenia by 25%. While in the old Member States we can tell this more developed, not transitionary, that's where the rate moves at about 31% on average from Belgium to 34, Germany with 38, Italy with 37%. Therefore, given the economic activity and the higher tax rates of those precisely profit tax, there is a significant tax income in those countries. For this reason, however, the difference in these rates puts it as a problem, and it is the old Member States that require harmonisation. In fact, the transition countries that entered the European Union are using exactly the lower tax rate mechanism to attract capital and encourage economic activity and thus are considered to be creating one unfair tax competition within the European Union and therefore the pressure of these additional old Member States in relation to the transitions that have entered the European Union and in relation to the countries which join, that these tax systems are harmonised. In their scientific and professional circles, they even talk about harmful and unfair tax competition. Thus, this report, which was held in 2003 by the European Commission, which requires the establishment of a joint consolidated corporate tax base in terms of removing these tax barriers. In the integrated market of the European Union, it comes from a corporation, therefore as the cornerstone of economic activities, and is believed to be precisely the problems, because there are 25 different tax systems in these 25 countries in which they operate, so there are 25 different tax systems in the common market, and therefore these systems are trying to bring them into line. Clearly, it's not a job that will go quickly and simply, but according to harmonisation... Therefore, they want to remove tax barriers and divergences in order to allow businesses to operate on an integrated market on equal terms, and also in a way these old Member States would come to their own and make it impossible for others in particular these transitions to be one unfair competition and thus attract capital, attract investment in their countries. [[You don't understand.]] The harmonisation is unquestionable, because if the European Union wants to impose itself on the global market, on the world market, then it will have to be some kind of competitor in economic terms and in the United States and Japan, so it will have to go into harmonisation, and what is the problem of the diversity and development of economic systems of individual national economies and where economic differences are, this will have to be addressed by some other measures, primarily through the European Union budget, through various assistance from funds for structural and other reforms. It should be said that this alignment has its price, so as the Secretary of State said somewhere around 50 million kuna is an estimate and that this lower tax revenue would therefore increase by cca year by year. 3%. Namely, we should make it clear that by joining the World Trade Organisation and signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we simply had to remove or reduce customs barriers, quota regimes, etc. It means doing everything that our market is liberalised and that in some way it becomes an integrated market for the European Union. The same thing is happening at the moment with the tax system. In fact, what we need to look for is a space, if we look that, as the market has been liberalized, it will be harmonised one day and feet etc., it means where to look for its space. This is primarily in strengthening domestic production, in competitiveness that will rest on the quality of production and also, speeding up structural reforms where I think more and more attention should be paid to support and where support should be better directed. So there are as few of these sectoral support that today out of all support are taking up almost 50% and that more goes into these horizontal support, to go more to support regional development where, in particular, it needs to find its own space and encourage entrepreneurship. Here, in the end, I'm just going to say that I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21459	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Profit Tax, which has been sent to us in an urgent procedure aimed at harmonising another important segment of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The Annex provides a declaration of its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Here are a few words on the objectives of the Council of Europe Directives that are in line with this law. In short, it is a matter of harmonising the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with the Council of Europe directives which regulate the common taxation system applicable in the merger of the division of the transfer of assets or the replacement of shares of companies from different Member States of the European Union. Then, there is a common system of taxation applicable to interest payments and copyright fees between related companies located in different Member States and common taxation applicable to companies "Mothers" and companies "Daughters" of different Member States. What are the objectives of these directives? First, it is a delay in taxation of profits and capital gains from the reorganisation of business, as well as the protection of Member States' rights to taxation. Then, removing obstacles to the functioning of the single market such as double taxation. And the fundamental objective of the Council of Europe Directive on the common taxation system applicable to interest payments and copyright fees between related companies located in different Member States. In the end, interest payments and copyright fees in one Member State, i.e. taxing them in one Member State, should be ensured. It is also clear that if a Member State considers that tax evasion, fraud, abuse means some illegal activities, it may not apply these Directives. This, as I said, is another law in line with which Croatia is approaching the European Union and for this reason, and because of the above reasons for amendments and complementarity, we give this law full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21461	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21462	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the beginning, it should be said that profit tax is something that stimulates or detimises the national economy, competitiveness and that is something where Croatia means at this point it has one of the lower rates and it is certainly good. However, as some colleagues have said before me, what is actually the most troubled by the current European tax system is this unequal taxation. And then what kind of multinational companies, companies that have their branches across the European Union, means using exactly this possibility of different legal systems and tax systems of certain Member States, in one way or another, avoiding or reducing that tax, and I think that the predecessors in 25 countries have been clear and created, especially in the new members of the European Union, unfair competition precisely because of this smaller rate. Croatia is also one of the countries that has this smaller rate, but it is a matter of Croatia's having to look ahead and watch how this law will increase companies, increase the profits made in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This law shall enter into force on the day of its entry into the European Union. And now we're gonna have two situations. One is if the European Union agrees on a single tax system, and this story in the European Union will be led by great players. Of course, this will not be very simple, since tax revenues are both from profit taxes and from other taxes in the European Union, they are dependent on national economies, national economies and fiscal policies of individual countries and this is a complex and complex process. And for this reason Croatia will have to take two positions. One is, if that happens then we don't have a problem, we're gonna have to get in that car with everyone. But if that does not happen, we need to hear the answers that Croatia plans to do in order to reduce the outflow of our profits, to increase investment in Croatia, to encourage certain companies, certain economic operators that are now operating outside to come to Croatia and thus help the national economy as well. It should be noted that only banks made more than 5 billion kuna in the first nine months of this year. So they made a profit of more than 5 billion kuna in the first nine months of this year alone. The profit, mostly from banks, is registered to a credit market in Croatia and it is good to keep the money there. However, in one way or another because of the headquarters of companies located outside, not only by members of the European Union, it is estimated that between 2 billion and 3 billion euros per year for foreign companies in Croatia. Regardless of how much money from banks is reinvested in Croatia, it is still foreign money. That's not our money. And they, with that money, kind of give the citizens money, so they can take interest from them again, and they can re-inflict their money. And it is therefore particularly important, in particular, to stimulate investment in some way. Reinvestment get. And that is where Croatia must offer answers and solutions if this single tax policy does not occur. One of these solutions was also sent by the SDP to the parliamentary procedure, meaning for this session of the parliament. This is the Profit Tax Act, meaning tax exemptions, meaning the current year which is invested in investments, or retains for trade purposes. At these moments of economic crisis, at these moments of reduced construction work, meaning the decline in the value of construction works, the reduction in personal consumption, it is extremely important to attract investment. And this is one of the measures that investment can attract. How to reinvest the Croatian economy. And that's what national legislation, the national economy. This is what the state can and must do to protect national interests. I, too, hope that in this spirit and accordingly, the competent ministry as well as the government will support the SDP proposal, so that profits are reinvested on profits in Croatia do not tax to encourage the national economy, to encourage the national economy, to preserve jobs and to tackle the crisis more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21463	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21464	So while most of what my colleague said agrees, I will correct the incorrect assumption, where he said that due to the diversity of tax systems and tax rates, companies go from more developed to a less developed country to avoid paying taxes. Which is not true. So they're paying him in this other country too. But their legitimate right, therefore, is for every company to go to exactly those countries where there are smaller taxes, where there are greater stimulations. We have an example especially in the last few decades where the automotive German industry, invented its own facilities, I don't know in Alabama, New Jersey, etc. So where are smaller taxes, where are less social rights and where are weaker unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21465	Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21466	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Profit Taxation, regulates the basic issues in which Croatian legislation is brought into line with the acquis of the European Union, transposition into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia of the following Directives. This is, above all, the Council Directive on the common taxation system applicable to mergers, divisions, transfer of assets and replacement of shares of companies from different Member States. The aim of this Directive is to delay the taxation of profits and capital gains from the reorganisation of business, as well as the protection of Member States' rights to taxation. The aim is also to remove obstacles to the functioning of a single market such as double taxation. Activities of merger, division, transfer of assets, etc. from different Member States within the European Union, they must not be prevented by restricting, unfavourable conditions resulting from the specificity of the provisions of the Member States. In order to achieve that goal, it is necessary to introduce tax rules that are neutral from the point of view of competitiveness, in order to allow entrepreneurs to adapt to the requirements of the common market. In any event, there is a need to stress here the delay of taxation in those transactions, until the moment of estrangement, or sales. The law on profit tax extends the taxation of transactions in the status changes of companies and cross-border transactions. Non-taxation within the meaning of these Directives also means a delay in the payment of taxes until the moment of sale of companies. In this case, the tax system is not an obstacle to freedom of movement of capital. The second Directive is a Council Directive on a common system of taxation, which applies to payments of interest and copyright fees between related companies located in different countries. The fundamental objective of this Directive is to ensure that interest and copyright fees are paid only once in the country. It is therefore necessary to repeal in the Tax on Profits Act, the provisions on payment of interest tax and the copyright fees made by non-residents in the Republic of Croatia and subject to the conditions laid down in this Directive. And the third Directive is a Council Directive on common taxation applicable to the companies "Mothers" and companies "Daughters" of different Member States. In the Republic of Croatia, it is important to stress that there is no tax on dividends and share in profits based on shares in capital, in the case of legal persons and in the case of natural persons. Therefore, this Directive of the European Union is fully in line with the provisions of the Tax on Profit, which shall apply from 1 January 2005. On the basis of all this, I am giving full support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21467	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank the honourable parliamentary representatives and the MPs for their constructive debate. We only have one amendment to the Legislative Committee which the applicant accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21469	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21470	Seven. The final draft law supplementing the Tax on Profits Act is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 201. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted these amendments. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Tax on Profit. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This bill was adopted unanimously with 111 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21471	We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 216 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and by the Committee on Law. Finance Ministry State Secretary Ivica Mladneo will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. From foreign finance ministries of the IRS, a new General Tax Law has been developed. There are two reasons for the adoption of the new General Tax Code. The first is the harmonisation of Croatian tax legislation with the acquis in the part of the implementation of the tax procedure and the second is given in mind the experience and concerns of the current implementation of the current CAP since 1.1.2001, which means eight years. It is estimated that certain interventions in the content of that law are necessary and that certain provisions of the law should be specified more precisely, defined, amended or amended, or introduced. For this reason, we are harmonising Croatian tax legislation with the acquis and this with Directives 77/799 and 208/55, which include provisions relating to administrative cooperation with the Member States of the European Community for the field of tax, means the exchange of information in order to detect and reduce tax fraud and to assist in the collection of claims, and Directive 203/48 which includes provisions relating to the exchange of information between the Member States of the European Community on paid interest on savings income. A more precise and better solution to certain issues, the proposed law should contribute to a more correct, consistent and uniform application of tax rules as well as rules of other public administrations, which are essential elements of strengthening the rule of law and protecting the rights of individuals. Furthermore, the provisions of the General Tax Code prescribe all procedural provisions for taxes and other public duties which were previously laid down in a number of other legislation, thus ensuring the authenticity of the treatment in the field of taxation as well as other public duties. In this way, harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union should mean a quality shift and an important contribution to the tax legislation of the Republic of Croatia. I just have to say for a minute that the O.P.Z. is actually one... Taxed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Changes relating to the applicable law, which is firstly introduced by the OIB as a number for tax needs which the Tax Administration and based on it will collect data and official property records and compare the collected data with the reported incomes and receipts, means one type of fight against both crime and corruption, and these will also be used for international data exchange. The concept of public taxes applicable to the General Tax Law has been defined since the tax administration has been transferred over the past years to the business of determining and charging other public contributions such as compulsory contributions, monumental rents, tourist membership fees, chamber contributions. So these other public fees are equal to taxes. The concept of a tax secret, which is considered to be all the data that the taxpayer makes in the tax procedure alone, and all the other data relating to the tax procedure available to the tax authority, is specified. Taxation cases are listed when the obligation to keep tax secrets is not considered to be damaged. For example, it is not considered to be a tax secret for information on who is in the VAT system but also for those circular frauds if they exist, so these data are not classified. Certain tax procedures are also defined as the institution of withdrawal from the tax application so that, in the case of annual tax returns, the application may be waived within 30 days. The correction of the tax application is also scheduled for a period of 12 months or a year but also shorter if tax supervision is under way. It is also a shortened procedure that is provided for in the determination of taxes, in particular regarding those data obtained from certain bodies, such as the tax on road motor vehicles, vessels, meaning data that have been taken over from other state institutions. The process of electronic data processing, the use of modern IT achievements, has also been developed by the Institute of Tax Control using this practice in the European Union countries. A priority has been put on the supervision of large taxpayers and related companies, the concept of a tax auditor to control those large taxpayers or related companies has been introduced. The provisions relating to the performance have been clarified and specified more precisely, the term executive document is defined, meaning the solution, the accounting application, the settlement, the definition and unsustainable auctions which would be at the level of minimum wages, the possibility of a delay in the form of payment, also extended provisions in charge of the second. There are also increased penalties for tax offences in the light of the level contained in other regulations, so they are also in line with the Infringement Act, the Law on areas of special state care. Some new violations have been foreseen, and the law is in line with the Criminal Law. It is foreseen that the law enters into force in 1.1.2009, with the exception of provisions relating to administrative cooperation and the exchange of information between Member States of the European Community, with the payment of interest on income savings and which will take effect with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to membership of the European Union. I note that the adoption of the General Tax Code does not have an impact on the budget because it is a law that prescribes the tax procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21473	Thank you. Legislative committees, European integration? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21474	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 20th session held on 3 December 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a General Tax Law, with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 27 November 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the basis of the provisions set out in Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question as a parent working body. In its discussion on the Committee, it pointed out the proposal for an amendment of the Croatian Banking Association to the provisions of Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The final proposal of the General Tax Code, which prescribes the obligation of banks to provide information to the tax administration on the turnover of all kuna and foreign exchange accounts of legal persons, natural persons carrying out the registered activity of crafts and free professions and citizens, is deleted. In the light of the proposed amendment, the Croatian Banking Association points out that the provisions of that article are incompatible with European practice and conflicting laws governing the business of banks because they are seriously affected by privacy. In most European Union countries, tax authorities have the right to request data and banks have the obligation to send a reply. But always on a single question based on a valid reason. In Croatia, the Credit Institutions Act regulates the operations of banks and has adopted a solution in accordance with best European practice, and in Article 169 concerning the obligation to keep a bank secret has made very clear in paragraph 3 of paragraph 13 if confidential data are necessary to tax authorities in the process they carry out under their legal powers and are notified on their written request, therefore, on the basis of the mass transmission of data in the transport of all kuna and foreign currency accounts of legal and natural persons should not be allowed. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the intensities of the proposed amendment and proposed that Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 516/2013 be replaced by the following: The final bill is complemented by the way words are added at the end of the text: "except for current and savings accounts". In the proposed way, it would narrow down the amount of data that banks are obliged to deliver to the tax administration. The members of the board voted mostly; 7 votes in favour of and 2 abstentions supported the proposed, proposed addition of Article 101 and decided to also become an amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a general tax law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21475	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21476	Mr. Vice President, Director of the Tax Administration, colleagues and colleagues. We will accept the adoption of a new general tax law. In fact, it was adopted in 2000 and the tax procedural law of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed and in this, this proposed new Law on General, the General Tax Law is almost entirely adopted with minimal changes but has been complemented by 3 European Union directives relating to the administrative cooperation of Member States of the European Union in the field of tax and exchange of information and on paid savings. I say more clearly, some existing provisions are also defined. It primarily refers to a tax secret. A personal identification number is being introduced as a tax number and penalties are being increased which we think we can support. When we talk about harmonising certain laws with practice or legislation of the European Union, then I must say that we have some progress here, but the bigger problem is that after we carry out harmonisation or delay application or in practice we do not implement it in an adequate way. We also have a lot of observations from the European Commission, and here in this law we have a whole chapter relating to three European Union directives that will apply only to Croatia's entry into the European Union. In this brief presentation, I would also like to warn of certain irregularities that are observed in supervision, tax supervision. Thus, the head of a large, large tax administration office recently singled out a series of illegalities or ways of avoiding tax that tax collectors in tax control. So he singles out the following: no bills, no taxes and no contributions, no taxes on renting a residential or business space and no employee registration by employers. Next, the non-report of total turnover by taxpayers operating in cash. Non-exchange of an account with a statement or issue of an invoice with a value added tax in the case where the taxpayer is not even entered in the value added tax system. He further says that the practice of the offender is because the non-reporting of taxpayers to, reporting taxpayers to non-existent addresses, not keeping their books, intolerance to the law of prescribed tax returns. Then the possession of fictitious accounts for which goods are not received but is required to pay back taxes for entrepreneurs to pay part of the salary in cash for which they do not pay tax or contributions and so on. But when the press asked him who these entrepreneurs were, what companies were they? He couldn't say the names of the tax evasionist because it was bound by the tax secret. This is what I've said here, and I'm saying it's good to say that we've expanded the chapter relating to the tax secret, and what we're saying now is what data can and must be given. So publish all those who are in the VAT system but also some other data. Similarly, as the tax secret has been regulated so far, we also have a case with a banking secret, so those who bring mess into business in Croatia actually have legal protection. That's why it's good to extend the provisions relating to the tax secret in the section that says when the tax secret isn't hurt? In particular, the possibility of publishing data on taxpayers which provided false data with the aim of reducing their or other obligations. This is where the value added tax is spoken and we believe that it is necessary to say it in all other taxes and all other taxes charged by the tax administration. In relation to the existing law, the provisions on electronic data processing are complemented, and the way in which the taxpayers are obliged to conduct their business books in electronic form are required. It is good that the deadline for issuing a solution is set after the annual tax application and it is reduced to a year so that it is known exactly when it is necessary to make a decision on the annual obligation to pay taxes. The law prescribes the obligation of banks to provide traffic data on taxpayers' accounts. Already in the debate, and counterpart Maric also made an amendment accepted by the Committee on Finance. The bankers had an objection to this formulation as it is now in the proposal, and we would like to warn that banks often call for banking secrets when looking for certain banking data, so we suggest that the provisions on banking secrets and arrangements be reconsidered in such a way that income control or control of taxpayers is possible. Often untaxed revenues are shown not through business accounts but through private accounts of entrepreneurs and it is really necessary sometimes to make an insight into not only business but also private, current and other bank accounts. To comply with a certain law with the legal acquis of the European Union is a smaller job for Parliament, a greater problem is the lack of its application. What must concern us is the European Commission's assessment that in the latest report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia relating to the tax system did not give us a very good assessment. The report notes that progress cannot be reported in this area, especially in the area of indirect taxation, as well as no progress on direct taxation, and that progress on administrative cooperation and mutual assistance cannot be reported. Certain progress has been made by the commission only in operational capacity and computerisation. The problem we actually see is that these problems affect the assessment of administrative capacity, tax administrations, and among other things they concern an inadequate system of paying and rewarding officials, lack of consistency training, employees, not stimulating employees to improve their own business in the tax administration. So, we urge that, with the speedy harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union, we also apply this harmonisation of legislation in Croatian practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21477	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21478	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the general tax law proposal with the final draft of the law. It should be pointed out at the outset that the adoption of the proposed law is necessary in order to bring Croatian legislation, tax legislation with the acquis of the European Union. One of the changes in the current OPC is that the more precise definition of the concept of other public administrations is that it achieves precision in determining the powers, in handling the tax authorities. So far, there has been no compensation for concessions, fines and any other charges for which the determination, payment and supervision under specific rules was in the jurisdiction of the tax authorities and thus the authority for the handling of the tax authorities could be questioned. More specifically, the concept of tax secrets is further defined, and it is also clearly defined what is not considered a tax secret, such as Data on taxpayers who have provided false data with a view to reducing VAT obligations if this is established in the tax procedure. More detailed cases of tax authorities' behaviour have been elaborated when it is considered that the tax secret will not be injured, which is particularly important in harmonising tax legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, thus enabling the OPZ to provide information in terms of administrative cooperation and exchange of information between the Member States of the European Union. So far, the OPZ has also stated that participants are obliged to act in good faith and the new OPC defines what is good and further requires the finance minister to prescribe a way of doing good faith. One of the important news is the introduction of a tax number definition that the tax administration will use to connect and pool existing property data owned by natural persons. The issue of introducing a tax number is one of the fundamental issues of effective taxation of natural persons and monitoring changes on their assets. It is precisely regulated by the way in which tax acts are delivered, including delivery abroad, which is one of the preconditions of effective work of the tax authorities. The issue of the delivery of tax acts, according to the current OPZ, has often made it difficult and slow to work by tax authorities in cases where, for any reason, personal delivery could not be made. It is now precisely defined that 15 days from the date of leaving the signed written notice at the place of delivery, it is considered that the personal delivery was carried out, making it greatly easier for tax authorities to work and removing the possibility of deliberately avoiding tax returns by taxpayers. Article 57 allows for electronic data management and the defined treatment of taxpayers towards tax authorities in such a case. Allowing electronic data management is a major step in the information sense. This step will enable taxpayers to manage data more easily and easily but also lead to tax authorities taking in new knowledge and technology more quickly and developing themselves in accordance with time and modern trends. The novelty is also the institution of withdrawal from the tax application in Article 65, which allows taxpayers to give up the application they were not obliged to submit within 30 days of the date of submission, and the correction of the tax application is also specified, and a deadline of 12 months for correction is set. The deadline for the delivery of a tax solution on the basis of an annual application which cannot be longer than one year from the expiry of the application deadline has also been set. Changes have also been made to the Institute of Tax Control, using the practice of the European Union countries to modernise the control procedures themselves. The notice of supervision will be delivered to the taxpayers no later than 8 days before the start of the supervision than the previous 15 and 30 days, respectively. For the purpose of the institute, it has been explained precisely that the perpetrator, a natural person, corresponds to his entire assets and assets that are considered to be a marital property in terms of the Family Law, as well as the property of relatives by blood in a straight line that they acquired from the perpetrators on any basis. In order to collect the tax debt, the tax authority can carry out the entire property of the taxpayer, and the adoption of a new OPZ is clearly defined and what is meant by this. Full newspapers called administrative cooperation between Member States of the European Communities for the field of tax have been introduced. The Minister of Finance will have the obligation to prescribe, within 4 months of the date of accession of the European Union, the procedure for the application of Directives which regulate the European Communities' rules on administrative cooperation in the field of tax. Cooperation with the Member States of the European Communities will achieve effective avoidance of tax evasion and possible double taxation of taxpayers. Article 176 defines when the tax administration will forward information on taxpayers to authorised authorities of another Member State. The presence of representatives of the authorised authorities of the Member States in the surveillance procedure, i.e. the presence of tax administration officers in investigations in another country, is also possible. Furthermore, it is also possible to negotiate comparative supervision between Member States when it comes to the common interest of two or more Member States. In doing so, care will be taken to protect the confidentiality of taxpayers' data. The tax administration shall have the right to refuse to exchange information if the transmission of such information would be contrary to domestic legislation and administrative practice. Finally, fines were increased for offenders from a minimum of 500 kuna to a minimum of 5 thousand kuna and from a maximum of 200 thousand kuna to 500 thousand kuna for legal persons and from 500 to 50 thousand kuna to 2 thousand to 100 thousand kuna for responsible persons in legal persons. An increase in the level of penalties for offenders aims at preventive action. Once again, on the basis of all of this, I stress that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21479	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative. Okay, correcting the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21480	Here, a colleague found that this law introduces the full possibility of paying the tax debt. It would be good, but unfortunately it is not because it remains the possibility that those who remain in debt to both the state and the worker can liquidate their company, of course according to the project of the famous HItro.HR and no one can do anything to them. It is therefore necessary to change the law as we had it in 2003, in the second year that such persons could not form a new company until they had paid for it. This colleague, she says, agrees with the fact that there should certainly be a full settlement of the tax debt, not that these debtors play and thus mock the state as well as the other debtors.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21481	HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will also support this Final Proposal for a General Tax Law, the last in a series of laws regulating the area of finance, and is in line with EU legislation. I will not read in this debate what it says in the bill, we all had the opportunity to read it and I believe that we have all read it responsibly. The law also unambiguously determines tax obligations, unambiguously determines the system of collection, but when it comes to the collection system, it is simply one remark. I want to point out or to point out a problem that our economy has, above all, an economy, especially at the moment, which is the practice of the tax administration that, namely, we know that, in addition to tax revenues, we have non-taxable incomes. And that the tax administration collects some non-tax revenue in the same way as paying tax revenues. The fact itself and the term of non-taxable income has its meaning. The fact is that we have in the structure of these non-taxable incomes we have a variety of 245 different fees. The fact is that the economy, primarily the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, had an obligation in 2007 and had largely paid 12.7 billion kuna. I would like to remind you that in 2002 this type of commitment totaled 5.5 billion. So within six years, she's double. Of these non-taxable incomes, I'd like to mention a few more significant ones. In 2007, the economy totalled more than a billion kunas of income in which it is mandatory to join the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I don't want to enter whether this membership fee should be mandatory or not be mandatory, but in any case it should be in function and to the benefit of those who pay it, but I don't think it's necessary for the tax administration to charge the same as the tax revenues. The same applies to the compensation for the Tourist Board, which last year amounted to 180 million kuna, the income that is absolutely necessary, but whether it is necessary to charge through the tax administration. And Croatian forests in which the economy has paid for so-called The compensation for the general services of forests over 500 million kuna has been invested in Croatia's forests. Water compensation, a five-year increase for a whole billion kuna, a monumental rent, and now I'm not counting any further. A question arises which is visible to the benefit of these non-taxable incomes? The question is, what is the position of the economy paying for a certain service in the control of the spending of these funds, the funds collected with the help of the tax administration? How can the economy affect this? How can the economy control what it pays, and I repeat, it paid billions of kuna in 2007? Finally, the dialogue on non-taxable income launched on the initiative of the Croatian Employers' Association was fully processed specifically from the position of the economy and especially at this time launched by the HUP, communication was made between the HUP and the Government. I must say that I hope that this debate will open in the House too, that we will get a proposal from the government, in the end, the government has committed to being one of its measures, as one of the measures in terms of encouraging or creating more quality and de facto necessary conditions for the economy, and we have heard from the prime minister that we are in bananas. Therefore, it is also necessary for this segment, a 12.5-billion segment in which local self-government units with their various and different certainly justified ones, and the question of whether local self-government units must organise their own incomes because of their functioning, participate with 42.3% and extra-profit users with 32.7. Is that necessary? And in conclusion, and on the subject, and this is the proposal of the general tax law, and in this law, there is a possibility that extra budget revenues may be charged as well as budget revenues, but we also believe that in the club of the Croatian People's Party, we believe that the tax administration, but that the government's decision is necessary, that tax administration does not have to charge extra-account revenue in the way that it charges budget revenues primarily from the economy because I believe that extra-accountary users should also bear the burden and uncertainty of these difficult times for the entire economy, and in any case the battle for jobs as announced by the prime minister. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this Final Proposal of the General Tax Law on demand, the application primarily for economic reasons, primarily because of the preservation of jobs, to analyse, as soon as possible, non-tax revenue, but in any case, that extra- budget users do not use except where necessary, not using both the Institute of Tax Administration and this law to collect what they have no influence on and cannot control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21483	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21484	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. As Zgrebec, an introductory colleague, said, the law is mainly prescribed by law, which at the beginning of its rule brought coalition authority. It was a really big newspaper, first of all, that with its basic principles and what's good is that over 90% of this law is essentially rewritten and in these modernities complemented by what we support. This is the basic principle for the first time affirmed in 2000, the principle that citizens have confidence in the state and that the state has confidence in the citizen as a taxpayer. That the citizen doesn't look at the state as the one who eventually wants to use it, and on the other hand, even if the state isn't looking at that citizen, it's just someone who wants to cheat on her. So this relationship of one trust has already resulted in precisely good filling of the state register and the relationship of citizens' trust with the state and state towards the citizen at that time, when all issues are at stake, and on their own, especially when dealing with such areas. But what I want to particularly apostrophe, that is the question of this very tax number as one of the largest newspapers and as one institute that now wants to be portrayed as deus exmahin that will solve all the problems. First of all, for the solution to this problem that the state actually collects its claims, but indeed trusts those who consciously carry out their obligations to everyone and also to the state, it was possible to solve until now and existing home numbers, and existing transactions of those who did not enter the tax system at all and for whom the public resisted what the media were talking about, and the answer of the tax administration was we can't ask you anything, because they are not taxpayers, they have no activity reported. It was also in order to suppress the grey economy that broke right at the beginning, because there are tax inspectors, the tax administration has no authority over those who are not in the system, who did not report their trade to him no one can do anything, so he can not only do undeclared but do whatever he wants, because he is not in the system. I mean, if we don't change that logic, then neither of the progeny, the replacement by this identification number, it won't be, and it's gonna stay just a mere tap. Equally networking a system that will make life easier for citizens, but also for the state itself. It's incomprehensible why all the data hasn't been networked by now. It's not a very cheap and simple project, but it's not insurmountable. However, the difficulty in this regard is no reason for us to make it difficult with those years and not to deal with the problem. So networking all data is necessary, because still the tax number will not mean anything by itself. It is not possible, and in Croatia this happens, those who have no activity still have it, these more large drug mobsters and other mob cartels have long since legalized their business, but you still have these small ones who are not employed anywhere, who have the best villas, who drive the most expensive cars, no one asks him anything, because they are not in the tax system and the tax number will be empty, no one will be able to control them. That's not the way it is. So this shows not a lack of weight to regulate this matter but an absolute lack of a serious will. So first of all, the state needs to look at those who don't even report taxes, which are not in the system at all. Not just the ones who keep it a secret, but the ones who don't report it at all. Because those who don't report to the state aren't secretives, interesting. And who does the most inspection come to? To those small craftsmen, on which basically the whole of Croatia lies and the whole fiscus lies most on them. They're not forgiven for anything. And I'm going to ask again a question here which was a replica, actually a correction of an incorrect quote, but in its essence is a replica, one rhetorical question, but to which the government should give an answer. We can't insist on collecting taxes on our own tax debt if the state, the same state, allows the team, ahead of those principles of priority, to start a new company. These are the biggest players and the legal order, as well as the legal stability and security and trust of citizens in the country. Not only is the state lightly disowning huge claims, but it tolerates other people who will then knock on her door again asking for help, asking for donations, seeking subsidies and a long form of help from the state. Only because it tolerates staying I say to her and other debtors, suppliers, and above all workers. You're burdening the system multiple times. They've been dragging around courts for years, they're litigators, and after years of litigation, they lose their disputes, and then they liquidate the company. Simply, a citizen as a believer cannot understand that it is possible to happen in one country and it is really not possible in any country to happen. Well, people like that in other countries are put in jail, and we're giving them grace, fast.hr, and it's like nothing happened. I'm familiar with so many families, small small-time businessmen who fell in terrible despair, hopelessly, impoverished, they got sick, whom, for God's sake, respected businessmen remained in debt, litigated, got sued, this one liquidated the company, continued freely with the other company. You see, we've just seen this problem from afar back in 2002, we've introduced a law that does not make it impossible for such individuals to establish, to start a new company. We got an answer when that law was abolished, that it was an obstacle to the economy. No, I don't. And that it's possible for such a person to play so he can base on his wife, his wives, his children, some family. But then, of course, every norm can be misused, but it can't be met by the authorities, and then it can make it easier for these abuses to end up being used. Here, therefore, I urge that we promote this good legal solution and these amendments that we need so much to really apply this law are effective and that so much trust between creditors and debtors, their moral, their civic, and above all business obligations be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21485	Thank you. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic really said a lot of inaccuracies. She also said that there is an absolute so there is no government will regarding taxation, which is not true at all. This government really takes care of a fair tax system. She's done a lot to reduce the grey economy, and I really don't think you have the right to talk about the work of this government like this. I'll just remind you that you've abolished the Financial Police and should've really made up for it. You canceled at the time when you didn't have to and of course you contributed, you contributed a lot...... And you have contributed greatly to the development and strengthening of the grey economy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, if you are already speaking, be consistent over and over again, do not be so hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21487	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. This law finally adopted the operational implementation or establishment of a basic identification number. Although those who have declared their own unique home number a secret, they are responsible for the big mess and the problems that occurred at the time. But I'd be happier if this law had brought a personal property tax card. I stress this, a personal property tax card, because then we could talk about more detail, quality and better about that part of taxpayers who are on tax returns, and even in this identification number there will be social cases, and at the same time the owners are very valuable real estates, movables, and some of them even use health care on the burden of the state because they are poor, but at the same time they own huge wealth that is nowhere, and obviously they have nothing to be shown to anyone. I want to believe, perhaps the Secretary of State will agree with me, that the adoption of the new General Tax Law will also require the adoption of a new Tax Administration Act because of their or her jurisdiction, the way and the implementation of this law, and that there will again be discussions on two things that I want to warn again. An announcement from the top government, from the prime minister himself, as one of the fight against crime, has also been announced in Croatia by confiscation of illegally acquired assets, and illegal property can also be obtained through tax evasion, tax evasion, avoidance or other matters. This law, at least I did not find in it implementing regulations on when and in what cases the tax debtor, the tax administration, will launch through the court a temporary blockade of property either movable property or real estate, if it is suspected that it is a consequence of tax evasion. There's no greater effect. There is no more effective way to fight non-taxation if the state has the power to effectively, quickly and through the law to block the availability of this property so that it does not end up on crocodile, Cayman or monkey islands until the tax collection process is completed, and unfortunately it sometimes takes two, three or more years. And you probably already have a register in the tax administration of those with whom you have the biggest problems, which are masters in avoiding tax, litigation and dispute. Therefore, I would really advise that, when preparing the new Tax Administration Act, this provision, which all European countries already have, that the tax administration has an obligation in such cases to apply to the court for the temporary blocking of the availability of property, regardless of whether it is movement or real estate. And secondly, I would like to warn you that in Croatia there is a new way of obtaining wealth that is not sanctioned by any law. One of these examples I recently set in the Parliament, happened in the meantime and a new one. In Croatia, there is a part of citizens who deliberately take loans they do not intend to repay, who find victims in the form of guarantees. And I made an example of Mrs. Anne from Varazdin a few months ago. No law and you always talk about it, you all point me to other laws. Now we're talking about the IRS, we're talking about the IAS, it's not a subject. We talked about the Mandatory Relations Act, and again, the answer was that it wasn't a subject. Now I'm going to illustrate to you how this is the subject of the General Tax Law and how you can get rich in Croatia and how you can pay no tax in Croatia. The case is from the Varazdin spas, the lady ended up in prison, mother of four, because she insulted the judge because she made a decision to decommission herself from the house. And the house was a supply or a guarantee to one respected entrepreneur, who simply decided not to repay the loan he took. Credit didn't go to the company, to the company, but made a fortune as a citizen. And by this law, but by no other law, a fraud who takes credit in a bank, decides not to repay a loan. And instead, the loan is returned to the bailiffs, and they won't pay a dime of the tax on the property that he earned with such fraud. Only if he was crazy enough to transfer that loan to the firm would they tax him or consider it his income. But if he uses that money as a physical person to acquire movable and real estate, it is not shown in income, tax is not paid and people are legally rich. As a result, the question of property and powers of the Tax Administration is in line with this law, not only to control what is listed as income and expenditure, but to compare through the property, they have paid all taxes, they have reported all the incomes, who will not have, for so long those notices of confiscation of illegal property acquired will not be in office, and since the resolutions of the authorities that are indeed different here are different from the finances, the judiciary and others, are not going to sit together and agree how to solve these problems of fraud, thieves, criminals, criminals who cheat on citizens, are now gaining already too much wealth without any obligations and sanctions. The only people who sanction themselves are, unfortunately, naive citizens who have agreed to be guaranteeers, who have run out of health, property and any other means of further maintenance. And those who have done so are not only prominent citizens. In this case, from the Varazdin spas, this man is called a prominent barbarian entrepreneur because he owns even two companies. And I'm sure no company owes you anything, as a company, as a company, because it got rich this way. And with a personal identification number, you won't have a problem with it, because it's not and it's not, and it won't have to show up with an asset that he's acquired with this kind of behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21489	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21490	Thank you. Well, Agent Lesar, you said in your debate that it would be necessary to finally introduce property cards. However, I must tell you that the property card regulations have been existing for a number of years and that provision is contained in the Income Tax Act. Now the second question is, why was that provision not followed? I also have to say that Article 63 is. Income tax law, the Tax Administration is even more obliged during the year to collect data, means about the property of taxpayers and to compare data on acquired assets and reported income, and thus if it is determined that the property obtained by the taxpayer is far greater than the income it has reported, it must be taxed. I'd really like to hear, how much is it... in the IRS, or how many countries on the basis of that article have collected tax revenues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21491	Replica response, Agent Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21492	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would be truly happy, namely I know about this provision of the Income Tax Act, but I would be as happy as you would be if it said in that law that the Tax Administration had to carry out a comparison of assets at the beginning and at the end of the year observed. But the law says the IRS can do it. Well then, with some citizens, that legal provision can be made by the IRS knowingly working and knowingly comparing the property, and knowingly calculating the difference. And some don't, and they never will, because that's what law says it can do. And that word can, so it's pretty much left to be a tax collector, the IRS officer decides when he's going to do it. And that's exactly what it's all about, that it can't be the right of personal assessment and judgment, but it's the obligation of the IRS to do it to all those who are just about to clear up the disproportionate of reported income, paid taxes and acquired wealth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21493	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the proposal of the Tax Law with the Final Proposal, as stated by the Proposer, is primarily the harmonisation of Croatian tax legislation with the acquis of the European Union and with the directives relating to administrative cooperation between Member States of the European Communities in the field of tax, and the exchange of information between Member States of the European Communities on paid interest on savings income. However, some of its provisions are also proposed from a certain intervention contained in the current law, by amending, supplementing, or introducing new ones, all with the aim of saying in the proposal that the proposed law contributes to a more regular, consistent and uniform application of tax rules and regulations on other public duties and their transparency. In my debate, I would like to point out that the solutions offered, and I am primarily referring to the amendments to the Institute of Tax Control and the Institute of Implementation, may not be the best and that, in that part, the existing law, or provisions governing those institutes, should not have been changed. It is proposed by law that the tax control notice must be delivered to the taxpayer no later than eight days before the start of the tax control and that period shall not, of course, apply if the purpose of the tax supervision is compromised, because in that case the notice is handed over to the taxpayer immediately before the start of the tax supervision. The current law primarily distinguishes large taxpayers and these are taxpayers who have an annual tax obligation by all types of taxes of more than 50 million kuna from others and is a team so-called. a large inspection order should be delivered 30 days before the start of inspection. And all other taxpayers 15 days before the start of inspection. This provision, in my opinion, was good in the current law, the optimal deadlines were set and the division of small and other taxpayers, i.e. large taxpayers, were also taken into account in this proposal. It is clear that if you go to the supervision of large taxpayers who, for example, have a large number of business units that it takes a longer time for these bonds to prepare all the necessary documentation and thus facilitate the work of an inspector who does not have to waste time and wait for the taxpayer to take into account all the necessary documentation and business books. So I suggest that at least this deadline that is prescribed as the latest of 8 be extended to 15 days. I am saying this because it is always possible to order the Central Office of the Tax Administration to make sure that this no later than 8 days applies. And on the other hand, it opens up the possibility of a different course of action as far as that deadline is concerned, which I don't think is good. As a result, I think that the current law, or provisions that regulated this matter, was better and should not have changed them in that part. Furthermore, the tax payer's proposal abolishes the possibility of delaying the launch of tax control, which is certainly not good for both the taxpayer and the tax authority, or the inspection. Namely, it should be possible for the taxpayer to request a delay in the implementation of the inspection control within 8 days for justified reasons. For example, a taxpayer like any other citizen can get sick, and this can indeed be a valid reason for the delay in monitoring the taxpayer, especially if the taxpayer himself keeps a business book. I would like to say something about the postponement of the tax debt or the delay of the exercise, which are provisions which have not changed, namely, this proposal of the law as well as the current regulations, it is prescribed that the tax authority may, at the request of the taxpayer, fully or in part, postpone the payment of the tax debt on the basis of the tax under the prescribed conditions, either on one occasion or in meals or at the best of 10 months. The implementation may also be delayed under the prescribed conditions for the deepest six months. What is not good is that in the case of deferment of charges as well as the delay of the commission, the tax authority prescribes that the delay may also be conditional upon the provision of payment insurance. In my view, payment insurance should be mandatory because the taxpayer who requests a delay in the payment of the tax debt or a delay in the application is already in financial difficulties cannot pay his tax obligations on time, and he often buys time right now. Very often, delays are not respected, and in the meantime, he is hoarded with new tax obligations that should be settled, but he does not do so most of the time. The State should ensure and prescribe the mandatory provision of insurance funds either by the unrevocable guarantee of a bank or by other financial organisations authorised to carry out payment traffic by means of a stock of securities or by the law of publishing. But in any case, it should be ensured because these insurance measures will also affect the taxpayer himself who will then make sure that he pays his tax debt. Because if, for example, he has a claim to real estate, especially if it's a residential facility where he lives with his family, he'll pay that tax debt before he gives no insurance measure. In my view, if insurance measures are not required, the impression is that the state is not very interested in the safe payment of the debts paid by it. As regards the procedure for enforcement, I must refer to the provision of Article 131 of the bill, which is very questionable, and I can say that it is contrary to the constitutional principle of ownership rights. This article states in paragraph 2 that a natural person is responsible for the debt of all of his assets, which is, of course, fine but also property that is within the meaning of the Family Law, a marital property and the property of his relatives by blood in a straight line that they have acquired from the perpetrators on any basis or from the receipt of the perpetrators. I have to say that it turns out to me that there's a possibility that a perpetrator can answer not only his own property but also someone else's. This provision will bring great doubt and will make it difficult for tax authorities to work. I ask who and what procedure will determine what is the matrimonial gain, how much it belongs to the perpetrator, how the tax authority will prove in the tax procedure that certain assets are derived from the receipt of the taxpayer. I don't think the tax authorities will be able to apply that provision in practice at all. I will only give an example of a taxpayer who has a tax debt and who performs any independent activity and whose husband, wife or child, because it means all legal, means ancestors and descendants for the taxpayer's debts, earns income from indeterminate work. To which and how to prove the proportion of that perpetrator's share in that asset, i.e. how much of that property is acquired from the receipt of the taxable person or performer. And the very expression of receipts to me I must admit is not clear because we know that taxpayers who carry out their own activity realize the meaning of income or establish it in a way that distinguishes between income and expenditure. Is this where you were thinking about the total receipts that I don't think are logical and that it's impossible? Whether it was meant for taxpayer income which is again a tax-containing category, or whether it was meant for what remains after tax but in any case it would have to be precise. I am sure that this provision in the work of the tax authorities will indeed bring a great deal of doubt and that it is almost impossible under that provision and in some way the conduct of the tax authorities. So there's a general tax law that prescribes the implementation of the tax procedure that can't be determined as I said. There's something else I need to say about this provision. It discriminates on me by natural persons compared to the legal ones because today, according to the applicable laws, you can have a private company that works in some rented business space, which owns some small value of some thousand kunas, which means the property can consist of a telephone, some desk, a phone, and that taxpayer have nothing more to do with it. And this company can, for example, do. ... I don't know transit trade, there's millions of traffic, but there's also a possibility that he can make tax debts, because he would pay the state tax if he didn't have to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it happens that for its debts it only corresponds to assets worth a thousand kuna, while at the same time it can have expensive cars, more real estate, but it is his private and with it answers, with it not responsible for the tax debt created, his private property is protected. And as I said in my debate, it turns out that the property of the income taxpayer means that the natural persons of that perpetrator are not in any way protected, because in my opinion, it is incursed into his property, but also in property and his relatives, and that of the ancestors and descendants. So this provision that I was talking about really has no basis and certainly should remain a provision of the law currently in force, which requires that the exercise be carried out from the total property of the taxpayer, and if the taxpayer also wanted to feel the settlement, it is, for example, estranged his property, because we know that it is happening too, if so, there is still the possibility, or the Institute of Disprovement of Legal Actions, and I think that the Tax Administration can do this and not actually make provisions that will not be applicable to me at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21495	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. When we are discussing today the proposal for a general tax law, I think it is necessary, however, to say a few basic data on the tax system of the Republic of Croatia and then one specific part of the protection of human rights prescribed by this general tax law. And when we talk about the tax system, it is known that taxes are mandatory for the state to take from persons, businesses, without direct and instantaneously provided services for... grants to help raise money finance public expenditure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, we pay a part of our income to our country which in turn provides public services, such as education, health care, public security, care for the elderly and the poor, social assistance and others. It should also be said that the tax system of the Republic of Croatia is based on a set of direct and indirect taxes. Basic direct taxes are income taxes, income tax and income tax taxes. Basic indirect taxes are VAT, excise duties and real estate tax. In other tax revenues, we can count a whole group of local taxes, county, municipal and urban, customs and social security contributions. Tax revenues can also be observed by different levels of government, so state taxes include VAT and excise duties, county taxes are inheritance taxes and gifts, taxes on road motor vehicles, taxes on road motor vehicles, taxes on motor vehicles, taxes on machines for fun games, and municipal and city taxes are taxes on income, taxes on consumption, taxes on holiday houses, corporate tax. Taxes shared between the state and units are income taxes, where distribution depends on whether local self-government units finance health, social care or education, income tax and real estate tax. Also, municipalities, i.e. cities, can prescribe the payment of income tax cuts, but are not legally obliged to introduce this tax expenditure. A few words on the protection of human rights established by this general tax law should be pointed out that these are the following, meaning the possibility of protecting human rights. First of all, the right to show off. Taxes also have the right to be made known before making a decision or judgment on all the relevant facts that are important for the decision. Furthermore, there is the protection of the confidentiality of information and personality. The taxpayer is obliged to subscribe to the tax authorities the true data that are relevant to the taxation process, and the tax authority is required to keep the tax secret in the interest of the taxpayer. In this way, the identity of the taxpayer is protected. If a taxpayer gives up privacy rights in writing, the data may be made public. Furthermore, it is a protection of human dignity, tax authorities must not compromise the reputation, dignity or honor of the taxpayer in the tax procedure. And finally, the right to information, which means that the tax authority can't be forced to charge, for example, by forced payment. by seizing a television or radio receiver which are sources of information for the taxpayer. For all the reasons here today, I am giving full support to the adoption of this law in the proposal for a general tax law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21497	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Mladneo.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21498	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, we have amendments to the Committee on Finance which the Committee president has already read, as well as to the Committee on Legislatives, which the Proposer also accepts. Once again, I thank everyone for the discussion, and I hope that this law, however, which is only an amendment to the law that will help to establish a good cooperation between the tax administration and the tax liability. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21499	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21500	Nine. Final proposal of the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 216. The debate is closed, amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure, they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final proposal of the General Tax Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The proposal of the General Tax Law was unanimously adopted by 111 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21501	We go to the following point: - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 205 The government, the emergency procedure, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Finance and the State Budget. Secretary of State Ivica Mladneo.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, just for a minute. The agreement between the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark is only now being concluded because the Republic of Croatia used that contract previously concluded with the Kingdom of Denmark. This contract, like all these other contracts, is concluded on the model contract of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and provides for the same relief, both for the citizens and businesses of Croatia and for the Kingdom of Denmark. We just have to point out that this contract cannot be changed but is accepted as proposed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21503	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21504	The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 205. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 111 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21505	We go to the following point: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 209. The proposer of the law is the Government. Emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration and the Defence Committee. The amendment was submitted by the Committee of Legislatives. Defence Minister Branko Vukelic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, and this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law has arisen as a consequence of obligations and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. Also as a consequence of the necessity of harmonising our legislation with legislation, i.e. the acquis of the European Union, but also with the harmonisation of the law adopted by this Croatian Parliament in July 2008. This is about the Export and Import Act for military use and non-war killings. The proposed amendments and amendments to the laws therefore comply with Articles 28 to 30. Treaty establishing the European Community. Those articles shall regulate the non-harmonised area and prohibit exports of quantitative restrictions between Member States, as well as measures having equivalent effect on quantitative limits. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws of the Member States shall be aligned with the legal property of the European Union and shall be clearly and clearly with this law which I have also mentioned concerning the export and import of military goods. By proposed law, all participants, that is, the most important thing I would say is the change or the novelty in these amendments that all participants in the process of equipping the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior have been brought into an equal position. Therefore, with the Agency Alan who is a company owned by the Republic of Croatia by exporting and importing arms and military equipment for the purposes of the armed forces and the Ministry of the Interior, all registered legal and natural persons, craftsmen registered in the register of exporters and importers of military use goods and non-military means of killing. In accordance with the Export and Import Act of Military Use. It also applies to the sales of non-spective weapons and military equipment by the armed forces and the Ministry of Interior. So far, the only way Alan Agency has been able to work with these amendments to the law so that all registered legal and physical persons in the Republic of Croatia can do so. The keeping of a single record of exported and imported arms and military equipment has so far been in the jurisdiction of the Alan Agency by adopting the Export and Import Act of Military Use and Non-military Murders, the job has been divided into three parts, one of which is introduced by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the other by the Ministry of Defence and the third by the Ministry of the Interior. In a new way, it is also prescribed that arms and military equipment manufacturers whose production capacities are particularly important for the defence of the Republic of Croatia may, under certain conditions, exercise the right to cash compensation for cold-drive, that the basic criteria that those producers must meet are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special regulation, that it is competent to decide on the requirements for monetary compensation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the eligibility of the request of the manufacturer of military equipment is determined by the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. The right to cash compensation for cold-drive along with those arms and military equipment manufacturers on an equal footing will also be possible for scientific research institutions relevant for the development of arms and military equipment. It is particularly important to stress that the proposed law deletes the provision on the possibility of obtaining the right to cash compensation in the event of the withdrawal of the authorisation to export arms and military equipment in accordance with the Export and Import Act of military use. Given that the Export and Import Act of Military Use and non-military killings are prescribed for the Ministry of Economy to report once a year to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exported and imported goods for which it has issued the permits, the proposed law obliges the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior to keep records of certificates issued for the export and import of arms and military equipment intended for armed forces, i.e. the Ministry of Interior and at least once a year are obliged to report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on exported and imported arms and military equipment for the previous year. Finally, I will just say that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21507	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? European integration? Defense? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21508	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Whether the law is in line with the European Union, I think it is a minor problem. Clearly, the law should be agreed, but more important in something else, is there anything that Croatia has to do at this time when it comes to the production, or the transport of weapons? So the fundamental question is, do we even have a military industry that can produce goods at this time that will be interesting to the foreign market? Something understandable. We have unfortunately that's very little and it seems that everything in this country has fallen to only one factory and this Karlovite gun factory. Unfortunately, even here when something can be done, there are enormous obstacles and it turns out that Croatia does not want to participate when and when there is a chance to do a good export job. I want to believe that this law, which will start de facto with 2009 will make it easier for the Croatian military industry to operate undisputedly. The Croatian military industry, clearly it is easy to say, is far more difficult to produce and perform, should also, in my deep conviction, be associated with partners working on the production of weapons in the field of ex-Yugoslavian republics. Clearly, it's not blasphemy, it's simple life. The formerly most significant ex-Yugoslavian goods that were exported were weapons. Clearly, then we had Tito, and he didn't have a problem with the contract and selling that weapon, but today it's a little different, but we're not going to get him back because we can't, even though we sure could use him when it happened, but what I'm trying to say. In that industry, almost all industries in the ex-Yugoslavia area were networked. For example, one tank could not be produced, as I know in Djuri Djakovic, without the Slovenians driving the optics, that the pipes did not drive, I do not know, from Kragujevac, that the domes were not done by the Bosnians, etc. So that's what I stand for, not clearly, that someone here would not think about rebuilding Yugoslavia but about connecting companies in the area of the former Yugoslavia so that ultimately everyone would benefit us, both them and what I know of a third. Without this connection, neither Croatia will be a more significant manufacturer of weapons, nor will we ever be nor have such ambitions more, a relevant exporter of weapons, and also where we could carry out a part of our weapons, and yet it should be seen as a good export attempt or a job, there to a large extent I dare tell us the world's leading countries or economies dealing with this. For example, an American exports over $20 billion a year when it comes to weapons. The English and the Russians each year export cca 10 billion dollars. I don't know if Croatia has had a chance this year, had opportunities, had it exported, say, 15 or 20 million dollars. So on the other hand, that's what we should say, instead of us taking advantage of the efforts and President Stipe Mesic when he leaves as we like to say, in some exotic countries where such an arrangement could be concluded, we usually make fun of the president. How did I figure out how to say this law? In Croatia, this business could mean dealing with how to express myself, all of which are now legal persons, normally which will be registered higher than that. I think it's personal good. Why? They're limited at this point to the possibility of "Alana" when it comes to exports. Imports are different, clearly imported all can be imported. However, it is not essential now in Croatia that we import, because we have no budgetary capacity to do so, rather than try to produce something here and try a part of that weaponry, which is a good export business, to perform. It is therefore certainly good or good is this spirit of this law that allows one healthy competition as it is reading and foreigners who will, for example, register companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and at that moment they will be domestic legal persons, in that export they will be able to participate. So every export needs to be welcomed, every export needs to be stimulated, even when it comes to weapons. For example, before some of what I know, some 3-4 years ago, Libya wanted to serve some of its patrol boats or what I know about ships in Croatia, then NATO seemed to oppose it, but interestingly no one in that Brussels stood up when those same ships were served by the French on their journeys. We must, among other things, oppose as one serious country and I will say to such a kind of planting, and as Croatia is more present on the foreign market, for example when it comes to exports between other and our weapons, it is clear that this planting of these large ones, not to mention them now, is going to be more and more. On the other hand, I don't think Croatia can build some at this time, as it was said a few months ago, big series, for example. ships for their needs on our runs, unfortunately, God forbid, but we don't have easy money in the budget. I doubt it, I haven't seen him for this year, such jobs won't be able to be financed, and the question is clearly why close the possibility of third parties who would like to finance their shipbuilding not know or shipbuilding needs in Croatian ports, i.e. those overpasses. That should mean some point of simply opening up to others amongst other sites and our shipyards. God forbid we as a country can deprive ourselves of old fleets, go into some modernization of the same by building new ships, unfortunately I said budget capacity wouldn't allow it. But then neither Libya nor Algeria should be clearly defended, which I know Morocco or Montenegro if there is such a need to come service ships on Croatian runs, because business is business, but regardless of all this law is certainly a step forward. This law is a good start, a good law. Perhaps it will stimulate exports in some segments, perhaps we will open up some markets because if we are present with a product in a country, for example. With a gun, we'll come up with a gun, maybe a grenade or something. and it will develop over time, and if we are present there then with one product no one will be able to drive us away. So a little liveliness and opportunities for domestic legal persons to be involved in these affairs will certainly come in handy. And finally when it comes to off set only two or three sentences. Clearly this must be a condition, in all major arms orders for the Croatian Army, if someone delivers you as Patria did or wants 120 armorers then they must also do something on the ground of the Republic of Croatia or participate clearly in our exports. Too bad we didn't know them when it was possible, let's just say we didn't condition them to build one or two ships in some Croatian shipyard. However, the law is short, the law is positive, and I am deeply convinced that the exports of Croatian weapons in 2009 will certainly increase compared to 2008. Imports will not clearly increase. Why won't it increase? We simply don't have these budget capacities, but we already need to express ourselves, figure out how we're going to set ourselves up to buy these planes. He can't go in this Swedish "grip" or what I know about American "fantom" etc. not to invest anything in Croatia and to convince anyone who has an interest in doing business with the Republic of Croatia in this way. But what kind of financial pressure we are today, I doubt that so soon these planes will not be discussed. All in all, the law is positive. I also want to believe that this military industry will begin in these small segments, not to join but to cooperate with those factories in the space that we used to share so that we could all benefit from it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21509	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club will support these technical changes to the Law on Production and Transport and Remonting of Arms and Military Equipment. However, we would also like to take the opportunity to say that it might be good if we had heard more about Croatian military production as it is now in its current state. In the event of a debate on the state of the defence system, however, there may be an opportunity to speak more about this at a closed session of the parent board. The export of military equipment from the Republic of Croatia in the last six years was 250 million dollars, and in 2007, and this was mentioned by Mr. Cain, I have the data of $80 million. So the highest part of the equipment and weapons sold refers to the guns "HS 2000", the safety helmet "Sestan-Bush", 6 patrol ships PV 30 and demining machines. However, it should also be said that, for example, Serbia in the last year had 300m dollars in arms and military equipment exports. Analysts, however, say, I will quote, "Serbia sells to everyone and everyone." And this is exactly the political factor in the arms trade, so it's an opportunity to choose what we want to be? Whether we want to be the ones who beat up the voice to sell everyone and everyone or we want to act in one politically way or another, I would say correct. After all, export procedures in Croatia are such that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of the Interior gives consent to export to a country and there is certainly a market in fact divided into black, white and grey. So white ones in which it is absolutely allowed to export, black ones in which it is absolutely forbidden to export because of the countries of questionable, questionable orientations... And of course she's so-called. gray markets where you can but normally not recommended exports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is, however, is the fact that you are most wanted by weapons where at that moment you most need them. And that's why this fact is happening so that somewhere it's estimated whether it's going to be done or not? This case Mr. Cain said with Libya was in 2001 or 2001. Yes, the remont was not carried out then, I think it was a ship because Libya was under sanctions, and another state that is a little stronger politically than Croatia has done so without any foreign policy consequences. But after that, there are six patrol ships involved in the Libyan Navy. Since it was not made in 2002, it was made after it had politically matured in some way. In the world last year, since arms and military equipment, traffic was about $30 billion. So it is easy to calculate that what Croatia exports is not even 1%, and question whether 1 promil total, total turnover. In the past, arms trafficking has in some way always been a socially questionable branch. Because of some consequences of arms trafficking in the 1990s when due to war and war circumstances on various... and the sanctions in which Croatia has been exposed in different ways to arms and military equipment, and some raps due to this kind of work are still subject and one of the top topics in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would therefore like to stress that this law speaks of legal trade in arms, legal production and legal remont. Everything outside that zone isn't covered by this law, so I'm gonna try to stick to it. So every export is positive. Therefore, each kuna, each EURO, each dollar earned from exports, is legal exports positive. So, of course, weapons should be treated as well. Weapons production actually has several segments to pay attention to. So it's primarily very, very high-tech, expensive technologies, and it's a very expensive production. And the market is more or less questionable. So it's variable. It depends on many circumstances that change relatively quickly. On the other hand, production and characteristics of equipment and transport often falls under secret. So and then, of course, under the secrecy of the data, although it is always possible for certain abuses to occur, but under the secrecy of the data then it cannot be as transparent as some others, some other branches of trade. There, too, should be stressed that there is a lot of political interference. So not only in determining the market to which you are allowed to sell, to whom you are not to sell, but in some way in determining domestic priorities, in a way in the ability to retain certain military production and this idea with a cold suitably suitable is, in fact, quite an old idea that came as a result of the total reduction of the defence budget after the 1990s, after the 90s. For example, I think that 90, at the end of the 90's, that budget was 7 to 8 billion kuna to come to about 4 billion kuna in 2003 with a relatively unfavourable structure due to a large, large share of staff costs while, while the costs of equipment and modernisation were relatively less represented. In 2004, the budget was further reduced and then increased to these appropriate levels for 2007 and 2008 where opportunities for greater and better equipment of the Croatian army were opened. I don't know what's going to happen after all these cuts and savings, but here's the situation over the years. However, it is now questionable when we talk about the impact of politics on the possibility of exploiting our military envoys in promoting therefore Croatian, Croatian military industries because, for example, most of the serious countries that have military envoys in Croatia have often lobbyed for their companies in the ministry in the last ten years, and it is quite certain that if serious countries do so and have success that they can do so probably Croatia with greater or less success. As for the agency "Alan" except for its role in the 1990s, then by coming to a bad voice of those years, it should be said that a restrictive, restrictive approach to these export and import jobs was precisely the consequence of a bad experience from the '90s, and if it is now, then, if in some way it is now time for this traffic and trade to be liberalised, it should be supported. One more thing to say, therefore for the end, for every Croatian exporter is very important to have a domestic reference. So it's very difficult to sell weapons to someone if the army in the country where you are isn't using that kind of weaponry. Therefore, all these attempts to revive the domestic industry are positive because it is clear that no military industry can survive without the help of the state. It can be said about the role and merit of any structure in the ministry that a company has managed to perform its product, so that it has managed to express it enough, to show that it is good, for someone else to use the product. Therefore, it is questionable how much greater or smaller the role of the state, the role of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economy or some other ministries is. However, it is clear that every kuna exported is positive and kuna derived from weapons, regardless of how much arms trade is in some way an undiscovered occupation. Here, the SDP club will therefore support these technical changes and, of course, we expect a broader debate on the state and the Croatian military industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21511	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt the session now. We will continue at 3 p.m. with the presentation of the Club of Representatives of HDZ, Mr Krešimir Cosic and the Club of Representatives of HSS, Mr Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21512	My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we begin our afternoon work. As announced on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21513	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Here is the debate on amendments to the Law on Production, Repair and Transport, Arms and Military Equipment, as it is said, may be a good opportunity to say more about the Croatian military industry part of the Croatian export-oriented economy. What are the possibilities, which are restrictions, chances, prospects of the Croatian military industry during the people's period. Each proposal for a law that we will adopt in a day's time represents a contribution that enables more flexible access to the wider arms market and military equipment in the world. Certainly especially in European spaces. The Croatian military industry has often been mentioned, commented and reported mostly in recent years. In 2007, 50 million euros or 80 million dollars. The basic question is, is that a lot or a little? I would say a lot if we were really looking at challenging demanding global markets, achieving exports and a minimalised balance of payments deficit, then each million in particular means a good contribution to tens of millions of euros. But the question is whether we can do more, whether we need to and can achieve more, is far more demanding and complex, because the arms market and military equipment is a market that is mostly reserved for the highest quality, the best products of the market that impose excellence not because of the elections, but because of the elemental reasons of survival. The likelihood of survival on the ground, the likelihood of survival in combat, victory or defeat, loss of territory, success of mission or failure, political power and much more, indeed depends on the quality of the arms industry and military equipment, the quality of the product that even our soldiers have in demanding peace operations. The measure of this quality can be very simply defined by these $80 million numbers. It is a statement of the ability of individuals, small companies, companies that have succeeded in achieving the continuity of their development since the early 1990s, to stress simply that the gun and helmet of their lifetime and first support were obtained through the first contracts in the Ministry of Defence. Unlike others, they have managed to achieve the necessary quality level and are held on a demanding high competitive market. They are joined by a demining machine located today in Afghanistan, Iraq, etc. as well as recent shipments of ships for the needs of the Libyan Navy. This is a measure of our competitiveness, a quality measure that we can offer to a demanding world market for arms and military equipment. Certainly not that number I'd say a lot if we compared maybe to 1989. 20 years before the SDP, then we have exports of armed and military equipment over $2 billion more than the total tourist income of the former state and this shows however that this level of complexity of the industry was far higher than it is today. It's normal and logical, living in other times, other needs. But what is also important to highlight, the complexity of the arms and military equipment products is impossible to achieve at the level of a small state such as the Republic of Croatia today. For example. The ability of the Croatian tank to compete in the demanding competitive world markets, such as the successful tank that was then offered by SDP on the world market specifically in Kuwait 25 years ago who won the competition with the world's best tanks in the US, German, Swedish, etc. but how to get to a complex competitive, quality, excellent product, that's a different story. Probably one day, and she'll be the subject of our discussions. Excellence and a simple recipe, but instead of philosophizing, we also need people who understand this, who know this, who are able to increase the complexity and competitiveness of the Croatian arms and military equipment industry. Something similar is trying to do today by the European Commission and the European Union, aware that the competitiveness of the arms and military equipment industry is very important in the interest of the competitiveness of the Croatian, or European economy on the global market for competition between the United States and other producers, especially Russia, etc. However, the national interests of certain countries of France, Germany, the UK of strong economies and powerful military industries do not make it impossible for the European industry to minimise its particularly expensive research costs and generate products and systems that are competitive and can find their place on the global world market, Eurofighter, Airlift, etc. A few words about this law. As it has been said, it aims to comply with existing laws in a way that all participants in the process of obtaining weapons and military equipment for the Croatian Armed Forces and police are placed in an equal position. And that's the important role of this law. In accordance with the proposed law with the Alan Agency, which is a state-owned company by exporting and importing arms and military equipment, all registered legal and natural persons, craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia, will be able to deal equally with this. The same applies to non-perspective arms and military equipment sales activities which so far could be carried out exclusively... a new opportunity for new initiatives and possible successes in the arms and military equipment market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the product needs to be exported, but what is a prerequisite for all this is development. The development that is very often in this area is uncertain, very expensive and lasts years, at least two, three, five years remains a question of ability and willingness to understand the complexity of this development and to ensure success, i.e. The final product, which can take place on the world market. One of the more interesting parts of this law applies in a new way that prescribes the possibility of certain arms and military equipment manufacturers, and only those that are particularly important to the Republic of Croatia, under certain conditions exercising the right to cash compensation for a cold drive. This is the topic that we discussed immediately after the end of the Homeland War, the demands for financial compensation were very often so great that it was almost difficult to implement and difficult to achieve in the terms of the budget which was falling extremely quickly, which was logical after the end of the war. The criteria that these producers must meet are defined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special regulation and for deciding on the requirements for monetary compensation, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the broadly defined rights, sometimes important, but the fact is that the risk of potential conflicts is almost minimal and in that sense the exercise of the right to cash compensation which will not only be linked to manufacturers and the weapons of military equipment which can have a particularly important defence role to defend the Republic of Croatia. As suggested here, it should be achieved and extended to scientific research institutions that are important for development, weapons and military equipment. And now it's a question that I also ask which institutions are, do we have such institutions? It would be good to have them and to have the real consistency and continuity of the functioning of these institutions. The question is, is it possible, will it be possible? And then the second question that is related to this is also about the fees we are talking about today and that we are challenging when it comes to one other part of the important Croatian industry, it is shipbuilding. So it's obvious that there's a conflict, on the one hand, we're looking for compensation in one important segment of industry, weapons and military equipment, the question is how important it is at this point. It is certainly important in terms of exports, it is important in terms of security, but I would say that Croatian shipbuilding is very important for the Croatian economy, for the Croatian future, for Croatian competitiveness. These are certainly some newspapers, some additions and for all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will give full support to the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21514	Thank you, fellow MP. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished colleague Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21515	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that by adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia will, in addition to further progress in meeting established criteria by the European Union, make a positive step in the area of production, remonting, transport, arms and military equipment. Analysing the proposed solutions as information from the field as information that comes to us tells us that the bill is acceptable, and that in its preparation the detected and removed and detected irregularities that have been observed in the Republic of Croatia so far. Its adoption also aims to further formulate the country's determination to improve this area. Which we particularly consider a good solution to this law. Terminological and other harmonisation with the provisions of the Export and Import Act of military use and non-military military killings, as well as other applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The creation of a prerequisite for the work on the production of remonts and transport of arms and military equipment to be demonopolized and allowed by other companies to work in the zone. Clearly, which would be entered in the exporter’s register, i.e. the importer, means that it must have certain conditions and comply with certain prescribed rules. Amendment to the articles of the law governing cash compensation for the so-called so-called a cold drive, during which the capacity of registered manufacturers for the production and remonting of weapons and military equipment is not operational. In further discussion, we would also like to point out some open issues in the overall area of the production of remonts and arms and military equipment, which are so far perceived in the public and at the level of the profession. Technology, weapons and military equipment are changing very quickly. The purchase of Western technologies on the market will therefore continue to be expensive in order to obtain the main combat funds and systems at a lower price, it is necessary to create conditions for the transfer of Western technologies to raise domestic research capacities to a higher level and achieve forms of cooperation between domestic and foreign military institutions and producers. This is certainly a model of establishing a very important regulation in the acquisition of weapons and military equipment with a foreign supplier. Military production should reduce the price, equipment of the armed forces and high dependence on imports. What is the impact of the provisions of the law on the affirmation of domestic military production and its perspective in order to be competitive in future time. Will the small Croatian market and small Croatian companies be able to survive the competition of large players when the provision of the manufacturer's obligation to have a seat in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is deleted? Whether it is necessary to finance producers through a cold drive mechanism or only the capacity to remount weapons and military equipment already contained in the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia which would be too expensive to organise a maintenance system within the Armed Forces if there are already companies that possess specific technologies and special capacities with trained and licensed employees, normally with supervision and sanctions unless they fulfil their commitments. The interests of the producer are sometimes state interests, because they can bear the development of the economy and thus generate profits. Is it not the primary role of the Government and the Ministry to ensure the conditions of military production in the domestic industry and, where appropriate, co-ordination and producer organisations in order to have a greater chance of exporting either spare parts or certain assets as a whole? As the activity of development by nature is a continuous process in cold-drive conditions, the development vehicle should be free of interruptions and cost of drive, as it cannot be done by development by telephone or by any written call. A higher level of transparency contrary to secrecy should not be an obstacle to the development of military production. Key procurement of military weapons and military equipment is visible on the Internet in many countries. Under the democratic system of control of the armed forces, the public means transparency of the spending of taxpayers' money, especially under the conditions of a limited budget. For reasons of secrecy, it is therefore necessary to clearly define the limits of exemptions from the law, which means that exemptions are possible, but transparency must not be questionable in the case of supervision of this implementation. At the end of the debate, we would like to welcome the government's efforts to enable foreign suppliers to support the potential of the Croatian military industry in the long term and enable its vitality and development. In this connection, we hope that the competent authorities will make their full contribution to improving the resources of production, remonting and transport of arms and military equipment in order to continuously implement the technical modernisation of the armed forces and the employment of domestic capacities. We also hope that some open issues may be better regulated in a more procedural manner by sublegal regulations that are within the scope of the competent defence ministry. We consider the bill good because it offers largely solutions in an area that has not been well regulated because here it has been monopolized so far. And because of these solutions offered by this law, the HSS Club supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21516	Thank you very much, colleague. For an individual debate, a respected fellow representative, Berislav Roncevic, applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21517	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished representatives of the government. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, and therefore, as we have heard from the Proposer, Government of the Republic of Croatia, the proposed amendments and additions to this law. The law is in line with Articles 28 to 30. The Treaty establishing the European Community thus prohibits import and export quantitative restrictions between Member States. This bill also removes the current non-compliance with the provisions of Articles 17 and 21 of the so far with Articles 28 and 30. Treaty establishing the European Community. It is important to point out that, in July 2008, this House adopted the Law on the Export and Import of Military Use and Non-military Murders, which came into force on 1 January 2009 and which, in accordance with the legal property of the European Union, regulated the area of imports and exports of military goods, which is also governed by the Law on the Production, Remont and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment in one part, and the proposed law is aligned with the provisions of that law. The export and import laws of military use and non-military killings shall regulate the conditions for exporting and importing goods of military use and non-military means of killing for commercial purposes. Powers to issue export and import licences for military purposes and non-military killings under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, the provision of services relating to military goods, the jurisdiction of the body of the State Administration for the implementation of laws, rights and obligations of exporters, importers and service providers, the conditions for carrying out the activities prescribed by law. The procedures for issuing export and import licences and the provision of services will be subject to the law governing the general administrative procedure. It is precisely the law passed by the Croatian Parliament in July of this year, and as I just pointed out, which is in line with the legal property of the European Union, that exports and imports of goods can be carried out by legal and natural persons and craftsmen registered in an eyewitness of exporters and importers of military use goods and non-military means of killing for commercial purposes. The harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union, as well as the law on the export and import of goods of military use and non-military means of killing, proposed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Production, Remonting and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, all participants in the process of equipping the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior shall be placed in an equal position. In addition to the Alan Agency, which is a company owned by the Republic of Croatia established by the Government's decision in 1993, exports and imports of arms and military equipment for the purposes of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will be able to deal with all registered legal and natural persons, craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia registered in the register of exporters and importers. This should be seen as an additional entrepreneurial option, but should be seen exclusively in the context that it is also an additional responsibility and a physical and legal person who decides to deal with this activity. According to fellow parliamentary representatives on behalf of clubs, the arms market and military equipment is very limited. It is worth a ruthless fight and needs to be looked at in this context by the development of the Croatian military industry. She's in constant reinforcements. $250m in the last five years is worth of Croatian arms and military equipment exports, and is currently moving at an annual level of about $80m. The efforts of Croatian producers without the desire to advertise should be welcomed, they should be pointed out and encouraged to continue with their production programmes and encouraged by other potential producers, entrepreneurs who will decide to enter this area. The Croatian gun was produced in over a million copies, a record production in the world in less than 8 years. Croatia's military helmet is considered the best safety helmet in the world, and its exports are about 250 thousand pieces. Let's not dream of some high-tech technology. Croatia will probably never, for God's sake, have the need to produce fighter aircraft, but there are specific areas of the military industry where we have experience gained in manufacturing in the Homeland War to be upgraded and supported by economies. In this context, I welcome the news of the announcement of the development of the Croatian military assault rifle. Following the announcement of the conclusion of Croatia's Kroko contract with the Montenegrin Defence Ministry. Of course it creates additional responsibility because we know negative information. The issue of security is primarily the issue across the world, in the European Union in particular. Any activity that could only lead to the idea that the Croatian export product could end up in the hands of any unwanted elements or terrorist groups would endanger all the positive efforts of the Croatian military industry, and in the context of this, I stress the commitment to the consistent application of this law and the responsible behaviour of all those involved in this process. The import and export law of military use and non-military killings requires that the Ministry draw up an annual report on exports and exports of goods by 30 April of the current year. And this law also obliges the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence to report once a year on the permits issued for the purposes of these ministries. In a new way, it is also prescribed that manufacturers of arms and military equipment whose production facilities are particularly important for the defence of the Republic of Croatia can, under certain conditions, make legal cash compensation for cold-powered plants. Analysing this proposed standard, it is important to point out that the draft law proposes to delete the provision on the possibility of obtaining a right to cash compensation in the event of the withdrawal of the authorisation to export arms and military equipment, which is in accordance with the Export and Import Act of Military Use and non-military killings. This amendment and supplement law should be supported, this law should also encourage new exporters, in any case it should also encourage proven manufacturers and future manufacturers of arms and military equipment, and in this context I will support these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21518	Thank you very much to the esteemed Mr. Representative. There are no more reports for discussion. I therefore conclude the debate. The applicant has no need for further address. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21519	11. Final draft law amending and supplementing Zako on the production, remonting and transport of arms and military equipment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 209. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Boris Šprem. I would ask the proposer's representative to declare the amendments submitted, Željko Gorsic, State Secretary, First Legislative Committee. Amendment relating to Article 14
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21520	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21521	The amendment has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the bill. Article 15, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21522	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21523	This amendment also becomes an integral part of the proposal. Representative Boris Šprem on Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21524	This amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21525	Thank you. Mr. Boris Sprem. He's withdrawing the amendment. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I hope there are no more amendments. And there's Amendment 2, Mr. Boris Spremo, that's on Article 4, but this. [[Intruder: There is, there is!]] Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21526	Amendment 1 is also not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21527	A Amendment 2 to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21528	For the name, for the name, therefore for 4 it is accepted, not accepted, but also for 1 it does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21529	He's pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21530	So there were two amendments, one was the name, that the whole text of the Law on Production and Remont in Transport of Arms and Military Equipment deletes traffic, right? We don't accept that, we don't accept that. For this reason, the Act on the Production and Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, together with the production and refurbishing of arms and military equipment, and the law of Article 15 to Article 21 regulates the transport of arms and military equipment. The export and import law of military use and non-military means of killing took over the regulation of the area of exports and imports of arms and military equipment, and the proposed law proposed an appropriate amendment to Article 17. Laws on production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment, which regulate only import and export operations, not total arms and military equipment transport. Other provisions of the laws governing transport, arms and military equipment remain in force in the Law on the Production, Repair and Transport of Arms of Military Equipment. That's why we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21531	Okay. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21532	So I don't agree with you that there is no need for a word of traffic in this law that is changing because there is no traffic anywhere. I don't know where you got that. I've made an analysis of it. Huh, I guess you have your tactics. You've got most of it, so you'll vote on it. But we're not giving up the amendment, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21533	We're voting on Amendment One, the other one's been withdrawn, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21535	Amendment one, where the word "transport" is deleted. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment 3 to Article 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21536	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21537	This amendment accepted. Thank you very much. So please, I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Repair and Transport, Arms and Military Equipment, together with the adopted amendments which are an integral part, this one amendment which is accepted which is an integral part of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This law has been adopted unanimously by 109 votes, together with an accepted amendment of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21538	And now we move to point 12: - Final proposal of the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 206; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the bill in boxes, it is an emergency procedure, it is applied in accordance with Article 161 of the Law. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Policy. You've received reports from the board on the benches. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor first? He does. Here you go. State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21539	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, honourable gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the proposal for a law on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad, another law harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, or provisions on the development cooperation of the Treaty on European Union, and the Council Regulation on humanitarian aid. We propose that this law, as Mr. Vice President has said, be adopted by emergency procedure to address the basic issues related to the provision of development assistance to less developed countries, i.e. humanitarian aid abroad. The European Union applies a policy of development cooperation that is complementary to the policy implemented by Member States, which promotes sustainable economic and social development of less developed countries, especially those most vulnerable, gradual integration of less developed countries into the world economy, the fight against poverty in developing countries. Taking into account the obligations and objectives undertaken by Member States and communities in the context of the action of the United Nations and other international organisations, the main objective of development cooperation is to develop and preserve democracy and the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The European Union's humanitarian aid is based on non-discrimination and with a fundamental goal of helping the most vulnerable people in third countries, primarily those less developed, victims of natural disasters, and the crisis caused by man, such as wars and the outbreak of conflict and other extraordinary situations. In light of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and NATO, as well as its wider positioning in the international community, there was a need to develop a systematic policy of international development cooperation as one of the specifics of Croatian foreign policy and to create an appropriate legislative framework. The Republic of Croatia has started its transformation from the recipient country to a country that is both an aider at international and regional level for several years. For example, voluntary donations of the Republic of Croatia to UN funds and other parts of the United Nations system. Its willingness to participate more actively in the world peace-building process and to achieve the goals of the United Nations Millennium Declaration, the Republic of Croatia is determined to confirm and increase contributions to UN programmes and activities that will systematically increase in the coming years. Areas where the Republic of Croatia could transfer its knowledge and experience to less developed countries are the transfer of experiences related to political economic transition, reform processes related to the compliance of society with European Union standards, experiences from the accession process to the European Union. Then, the transfer of experiences resulting from specific circumstances of war and vices such as demining, forensics, physical and psychological rehabilitation, assistance in education, training of experts and technical staff, such as seminars, donations, scholarships to study or stay in Croatia technical assistance. These facts contribute to the importance of establishing Croatian legislation in the field of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad. The main issues to be addressed by this legislative proposal concern the setting of objectives, instruments, coordination, implementation and financing of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad provided by the Republic of Croatia. Development aid as the most significant instrument of development cooperation is money and investment aid, which is a fundamental purpose of supporting the development of less developed countries and overcoming urgent problems and their consequences. Development cooperation policy is one of the complementary state policies that involve good networking and cooperation both state institutions and private and non-governmental sectors. The proposed law will allow the establishment of an effective system for providing official development assistance, which includes systematic policy implementation and better coordination between central government authorities, local self-government, public institutions participating in the provision of official development assistance under their responsibilities. Since development cooperation policy plays a very important role in the implementation of an effective foreign policy of a country, a well- thought-out political strategy in this area is often useful because the positioned state at global and regional level opens itself up a series of political opportunities such as participation in the work of international and regional bodies and political processes, and ultimately opens up a country and a series of economic opportunities. The adoption of this law also fulfils the obligations set out in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union set out in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2008 and in the Action Plan for the closure of Chapter 30 – External Relations. Therefore, in accordance with Article 161(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. And if you will allow me, Mr Vice-President, given the report on the draft law of the Committee on Legislatives which has tabled amendments concerning the legal and non-technical regulation of this law, the Proposer or the Government accepts those amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21540	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word on behalf of the board? The Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr. Representative Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21541	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 15th session held on 4 December 2008, the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 206 which has been submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 27 November 2008. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the proposal for this law as a parent working body. The Committee highlights the importance and interest of the Republic of Croatia as future members of Euro-Atlantic integration as well as the wider positioning of Croatia in the International Community and decided to support this proposal for a law on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad, which sets out the objectives, instruments, coordination, implementation and financing of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad provided by the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has only recently begun its transformation from the recipient country to help the donor country at international and local level. Its willingness to participate more actively in the world peace-building process as well as in achieving the goals of the United Nations Millennium Declaration, the Republic of Croatia has decided to confirm and increase contributions to UN programmes and activities that will systematically increase by each coming year. After the debate, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously supported the proposal of this law and decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21542	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? There isn't. The Committee on European Integration? There's no interest. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21543	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs. The working group established by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations to draft a draft Law on Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance abroad, which was made by representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, then the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, Water Economy, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Office for Law, installed observations in the final proposal for the Law, thus fulfilling the obligations of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU for 2008 and the Action Plan for the closure of Chapter 30 – External Relations. So we are talking about the Law on Development Co-operation and humanitarian aid abroad, which will be used in Croatia in international contexts as a capable and regional and international assistance to those who need it. Unfortunately, not long ago, we ourselves witnessed the time when we were in a position to receive assistance from peacekeeping missions as well as humanitarian aid and which, of course, are not the only forms of assistance provided for by this law, but it is important to stress that by adopting this law, we place ourselves in a circle of countries that are ready to help other countries in numerous challenges and conditions that have hit them, which is a very important role in implementing effective foreign policy. Political opportunities are being opened in the work of international and regional authorities both in political processes and in a number of economic opportunities. Of course, this implies a good connection and cooperation between state institutions and the private and non-governmental sectors. However, it should be pointed out that we can already boast on this plan by participating in peacekeeping missions as well as by delivering humanitarian aid to countries affected by war casualties as well as those found themselves in conditions of need for natural disasters. Now, in light of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, we want to follow the development policy of the members of the European Union either as a recipient country or as a grant country. We should work on sustainable development, eradicating poverty, and also pursue a common political objective: strengthening democracy and the rule of law and promoting respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Civil society, trade unions, employee organisations, the private sector are important promoters of democracy, social justice and human rights as well as factors in formulating development policy and preparing and implementing concrete projects. This law, in view of its importance, since it regulates matter as a legal property of the European Union, respected gentlemen and ladies representatives of the HDZ Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21544	Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague. There are no other club applications. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, distinguished colleague Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21545	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must point out that that law fulfils the obligations of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, as set out in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2008 and in the Action Plan for the closure of Chapter 30 of external relations, as Mr Secretary said. This law shall enter into force on 1 January 2009. What goals in the field of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance do the Republic of Croatia have abroad? First, the mitigation of poverty and hunger. Second, promoting sustainable economic, social and ecological development. Third, ensuring global peace and security, especially through the promotion of the institutions of democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights. Further promotion of general availability of education. Fifthly, improving the quality of basic health services, promoting economic cooperation and aid in humanitarian crises. The international development cooperation policy plays a very important role in implementing an effective foreign policy of a country. A well-designed and coherent political strategy in this area is often useful because it positiones the state at global and regional level as a responsible factor, opens up a number of political opportunities to the state, such as participation in the work of international and regional bodies and political processes, and finally opens up a series of economic opportunities to the state. The proposed law will allow the establishment of an effective system for providing official development assistance, which includes systematic policy implementation and better coordination between central government authorities, local self-government, public institutions participating in the provision of official development assistance under their competence. There are three principles of implementation; the principle of effectiveness, the principle of transparency and the principle of complementarity of comparative advantages. As regards the principle of effectiveness, the Republic of Croatia will effectively provide official development assistance, and coordination, management and supervision of development assistance projects will be in line with the principles of effectiveness from the Paris Declaration of 2005. As regards the principles of transparency under which the allocation of funds for programmes and humanitarian assistance to abroad and their supervision will be based on the principles of good governance and will be implemented in agreement with the authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government, civil society organisations, the private sector, the academic community and other stakeholders. In the principle of complementarity, the Republic of Croatia will provide development assistance in areas where it has specific knowledge and experience that can be useful for the recipient country and contribute to its development. And as the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Zubović, the Republic of Croatia has only recently begun its transformation from the recipient country to a country that is a donor of assistance at international and regional level, for example, voluntary donations of the Republic of Croatia to UN funds and other parts of the United Nations system. Its willingness to participate more actively in the world peace-building process and to achieve the Millennium Declaration goals of the United Nations, the Republic of Croatia has decided to confirm and increase contributions to UN programmes and activities that will systematically increase by each coming year. And in the end, I'm going to say, what does that humanitarian aid even mean? We experienced it in Velika Gorica during the 1992 war, 1993, when a priest named Don Romeo from a parish in the area of Turin, Velika Gorica, drove to Velika Gorica for 3, 4 years, and he helped significantly in the diet of more than 7,000 border guards who were in our care. So this is a wonderful bill that the Croatian Democratic Community will support anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21546	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague representative, Angelko Mihalic, also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21547	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. At this moment, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and Euro-Atlantic integration and its wider positioning in the international community has come to the need to develop a systematic policy of international development cooperation as one of the specifics of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. Developing an effective system of international assistance and cooperation is one of the priorities in the reform of the United Nations as well as in many European Union organisations. The Republic of Croatia has only started its transformation in the past few years from a country that has been aiding the country at both international and regional level. Development policy is one of the important state policies that involve good networking and cooperation both state institutions and private and non-governmental sectors. In September 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established an inter-resor working group to assess the situation and the need to develop policies and development assistance. Based on the experience of most EU Member States, a decision has been taken on the institutional framework for humanitarian policy in relation to the European Community's humanitarian policy. It is not necessary to talk about the importance of humanity to be involved in helping those who need it at some point. Let us remember how my distinguished colleague said, not so long ago in the Homeland War and in the later years of our country's restoration, how much it meant to us to help humanitarian organisations and the government of the state that participated in these humanitarian activities. Of course, unfortunately, there have been numerous and all kinds of malfeasances, manipulations about it, but such phenomena that were unable to overshadow the purpose and essence of international humanitarian activity. However, that is why this law is welcome, which will undoubtedly make a lot of order in this area, because the proposed law will allow the establishment of an effective system for providing official development assistance that includes systematic policy implementation and better coordination between the central government and local self-government and public institutions participating in the provision of official development assistance within their competence. The adoption of this law also fulfils the obligations of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. After everything I've said, I'm going to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21548	Thank you very much. And an application for a hearing with a distinguished fellow representative of Arsen Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we all remember war times and cases when Croatia was the recipient of humanitarian aid, and here is the adoption of this law in some way and we declare ourselves a humanitarian aider. In particular, Article 4 which speaks in the field of development cooperation of humanitarian aid abroad, the Republic of Croatia has the following objectives: the mitigation of poverty and hunger, the promotion of sustainable economic, social and environmental development, ensuring global peace and security, especially through the promotion of the institutions of democracy of the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, the promotion of universal availability of education, the improvement of the quality of basic health services, the promotion of economic cooperation and assistance in humanitarian crises. When we read the Croatian media for the last two, three weeks, I would say that all these problems are present in Croatia, and I am afraid that by intense interpretation of this article, we might even say that we are giving ourselves humanitarian help, so the question is how others view us and how we view ourselves. Because all the problems listed in Article 4 by an extensive interpretation of those who think they're better than us could also recognize us. I hope, however, that this will not be such a case, that we will not extensively interpret this law, but also that we will no longer make moves that show us in the world as a country, so in which human rights are violated, in which education is not available, in which the quality of health services is not good, in which there is poverty and hunger and all of what we have stated in Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21550	Thank you very much. There's no more application for a hearing. The promoter doesn't feel the need for re-conversation, I thank him. That's what I'm closing the argument. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21551	12. Final draft law on development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. number 206. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted these amendments. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This bill was adopted unanimously by 106 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21552	And now we're moving on to these three laws of justice. First - Final draft law amending the Law on Commercial Society, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 202 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. We've also received reports from the board's session. Mr Drazen Bošnjaković is the secretary of state. Please turn around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the provisions of the Code on Parent Number and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data with the latest amendments and additions to the 2007 Commercial Society Act, the provision of Article 172, and in view of the legal obligation to enter as an identification mark of a person in the court register a number used by the tax administration as a tax number of persons, changes have been made in such a way that the words are replaced by the words ‘tax number’ in the corresponding number and fall. On 9 May 2008, the Personal Identification Number Act was adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2009. In addition to Article 3(2) and (3) of that law, which shall enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to membership in the European Union. That law regulates the way in which the introduction, designation, allocation, use and cancellation of the personal identification number and the rights and obligations of the competent authorities and authorised legal persons in the implementation of the provisions of that law, and for the purpose of increasing the effectiveness of the legal system. According to the provisions of the law, the personal identification number is a permanent identification code of the personal identification number that its users use in official records, in daily work and in data exchange. Since the Personal Identification Number Act is prescribed to use a personal identification number as an identification number, it is necessary to amend the Company Act to comply with that law, with the wording of the tax number replaced by the wording of the personal identification number in the corresponding number and the fall in all the text of the Commercial Society Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21554	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs, on behalf of the board, want to take the floor? Legislative? Justice? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21555	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Commercial Society with the Final Proposal for a Law which the Government has sent to the Croatian Parliament with a proposal to adopt by emergency procedure. This is one in a series of legislative proposals in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is aligned with the legislation of the European Union, and this also confirms in addition a statement on its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. In 2003, the extensive amendments to the law were most consistent with the legal acquis of the European Union at that time of adoption. The latest amendments and additions to the Trade Society Act since April 2008 also introduced the following changes. First, the rights of trade companies of the Republic of Croatia are in line with the legal property of the European Union in the area of the rights of commercial companies. Furthermore, a free choice has been made between the current dualist demonist model of governance in the stock companies. The cross-border merger and association of companies is also regulated. Issues related to the reserves of a company of capital that have not been settled until then and for the purpose of creating conditions for the free cross-border provision of services, foreign entrepreneurs are allowed to carry out a one-time and occasional business without the establishment of a branch. Finally, it is prescribed to draw up and publish annual reports on the state of the company and corrected editorial errors and the law improved by provisions aimed at equating the practice of its application. Today, we have before us the harmonisation of the Law on Commercial Society with the Law on Personal Identification. I would like to remind you that on 9 May 2008, the Law on the personal identification number, which enters into force on 1 January 2009, was adopted, with the exception of the provision of Article 3(2) and (3) of that law, which enters into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to membership in the European Union. That law regulates the way in which the introduction, designation, award, use and cancellation of the personal identification number and the rights and obligations of the competent authorities and authorised legal persons in implementing the provisions of the law in order to increase the effectiveness of the legal system. According to the provisions of the law, the personal identification number is a permanent identification code of the personal identification number that its users use or will use in official daily work records and in the exchange of data. Since the Law on the Personal Identification Number is prescribed to use a personal identification number as an identification number, it is necessary to amend the Law on Commercial Companies, and what makes these amendments of the Law seem to be in line with that law, with the words "tax number" being replaced by "personal identification number" in the corresponding number and downgrade in the entire text of the Commercial Society Act. These are the basic amendments that are regulated by the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Commercial Companies, which enters into force on 1 January 2009, the same as the Law on the Personal Identification Number. Thus, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community gave full support to the adoption of the Law on Personal Identification Number, thus providing support to the Law amending the Law on Commercial Companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21556	Thank you very much. There are no other applications on behalf of the club. We're moving on to individual... Is there? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21557	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what this is all about is replacing this old term "tax number" with a "personal identification number" in the text where this story is being announced means that this law will come into force, as we said, in 1.2009. But what I would like to hear from the ministry's representatives is something we have warned about when this tax number has been passed and it is about the creation of a single database or the collection of slogans for which there are already grounds to be made and for which there are already grounds to be applied in some way, because it is very important in not only the repression of the gray economy, but in one introduction of order and into state finances, but also in introducing order and in social rights which we think is particularly important because we are witnesses that certain citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have significant assets based on these or those social rights are making additional revenues from the state budget which we should not be so de facto. And here we also had opportunities to hear the Minister of Finance talk about it and how he announced that order would be introduced. What I expressed last time I was discussing in this House about a personal identification number, I expressed one concern and a concern about the text that was then found as a proposal for a solution in the very description of the reasoning of the law, which said that the full introduction of a personal identification number would create assumptions for the eventual formation of that database. So, the emphasis was on the word "eventual formation" and we were not happy with it, but then the minister reacted and said of course that this database is in progress and of course it is in progress, so we would like to hear, since it is a process that is very feasible, since it is a process that can practically come into effect with the formation of that unique database on the same day that the Tax Number Act comes into force, meaning from 1.1.2009, how and how things go through the creation of that database and how that database will be incorporated into all laws that actually concern the personal identification number. Here's the deal. I'll figure it out. So that's what we'd like to hear, and I'm hoping for your answer. I hope that's not in preparation, but in the immediate phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21558	Thank you very much, dear fellow representative Bernardic. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. A distinguished colleague of MPs, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, has applied. Here you go, pals. I gave you my word. ... And you're giving up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. There are no other applications for individual hearings. Is there a representative who would like to speak to you? Here you go. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the support this law will, as I understand it, receive. From the position of the Justice Department, we've done all the preparatory work and this system will function from 1.1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21560	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21561	14. Final draft law amending the Law on Commercial Companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. number 202. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Commercial Companies. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This Proposal for a Law amending the Company Act was adopted unanimously by 106 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21562	And we move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of State Law, second reading, P.Z. No.178 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from the board at the session. The Committee on Justice submitted its amendments. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, as is known, we have passed the Law on the Areas and Headquarterss of Municipal Courts in the Republic of Croatia which has established a brand-new network of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the consequences of this law and the new rationalisation, which is the rationalisation of the network on the areas and headquarters of the state's attorneys' offices. According to the current Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, 71 State Attorney's Office and 21 County State's Attorney's Office have been established. Of the 71 established state attorney's office, 61 municipal state's attorney's office and 20 county state's attorney's offices were indeed established. The law therefore proposes the establishment of 55 municipal state attorneys and 21 county state attorney's office. By the start of work of the county attorney's office in Virovitica, the state's attorney's office will be held in Bjelovar. It is also proposed that the Ministry of Justice secure work space and technical equipment for state attorneys in the headquarters that were formed by merger by 31 December 2019 at the latest. This is in line with the deadlines we set for municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, in fact, when we do interventions on buildings or new buildings to then predict space and for municipal state attorneys so that we do not have our bodies distributed by various addresses as it is now. Compared to our first reading, we improved this text and significantly accepted all those remarks that were highlighted in the first reading. We suggest that this law be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21564	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the rapporteurs, on behalf of the board, want to take the floor? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Justice Committee? Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Ivo Grbic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21565	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Attorney's Office. I would say that the draft law on the areas and seats of the state attorney's office we are discussing is a logical sequence of legislative activity of the Government of Croatia, taking into account that this year was also the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and that the Croatian Parliament adopted it in July of this year. This law reduced the number of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, 8 courts, by joining courts to 67 municipal courts. We remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategy for reform of the judiciary and set for one of the objectives a rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be stressed that implementation of a series of strategy measures depends on the future network of state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts has amended the areas of municipal and county courts, and has accordingly joined the development of the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers in order to amend the areas of municipal and county attorneys. As these issues are sensitive and are normal to challenge the discussion of professions and other public, the applicant set the criteria for implementing the rationalisation contained in the following: the number of cases received during the calendar year and the number of state attorneys and deputies required according to framework standards, the number of inhabitants, the total number of resolved and outstanding cases, the assessment of the inflow of cases and the ratio to the number of state lawyers. The bill is set up by 55 municipal state attorneys and 21 county state's attorney's office. To weigh the number or more precisely 7 of the state's attorneys' offices is connected because the courts they were competent to handle, and one merger is proposed for economic reasons. A newly established County State Attorney's Office in Virovitica, the municipal state attorney's office in Korcula and Novi Zagreb will begin work when the minister of justice determines that they meet the requirements. The proposal further regulates the local jurisdiction of the county state lawyers in the cases covered by the trade court's division under the jurisdiction of the county state attorneys established by these proposals, regardless of where the commercial court is based. We believe that it is good that the applicant has determined that the implementation of the rationalisation process takes longer, both in terms of ensuring the necessary working space conditions and technical support for state attorneys in the headquarters of the merger and in terms of the insurance and dynamics of the necessary funds. It is important to point out that the Minister's decision will set up permanent services outside the seat of the State's Attorney's Office until the decision is made that the conditions for the work of the State's attorney's office have been ensured. In view of all this, aware of the importance of reforming the judiciary, committed in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21566	Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague. Does the promoter have a need for a final address? Other applications are no longer to be discussed. Here you go. State Secretary, Mr. Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21567	Thank you very much for your support. Let me just say that the motioner accepts one amendment from Representative Stjepan Kundić. Thank you for the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21568	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21569	13. Final draft law on areas and centres of state attorneys, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 178. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by MP Stjepan Kundić. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments which are identical. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Centres of State Lawyers. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was accepted with most votes; 105 votes to 1 against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21570	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 203 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the motion to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The procedure is an emergency uniting first and second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Reports from the board's session have been received. Representative of the Proposer, State Secretary Mr Drazen Bošnjaković. Here's my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21571	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials has arranged the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. The law on the anti-corruption and organised crime office states that corruption and organised crime are responsible for the conduct of county courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. In view of the specificity of these offences, as well as the conduct of those criminal cases, the Rules of Procedure have been prescribed in the manner of handling in those cases and the establishment of specific departments in the county courts referred to in Article 24. The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. The work on these cases requires the special expertise and responsibility of judges working on these cases, as well as the special responsibility of the President of the courts in which criminal offences are conducted in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. The current Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers does not provide for the salaries of the Presidents of the Courts and Judges who act in criminal cases under the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, i.e. in criminal cases of organised crime and corruption, and it is necessary to make certain amendments and additions in this law in order to determine the height of the salary, i.e. the coefficient for determining their salary. It is therefore proposed to add in Article 4(3) a new point 6a specifying the coefficient of 5,80 for the calculation of the salary of the President of the Courts referred to in Article 24. The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, and point 7a adds a new point 7a, which sets a coefficient of 5.70 for the calculation of judges' salaries in corruption and organised crime cases. The implementation of this law in the proposal for the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 provides for the necessary funds of 5 million kuna gross, as opposed to the salaries of 30 judges and 4 presidents of the county courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, which will act in criminal cases under the jurisdiction of the USKOK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21572	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course, I will also say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. As we had the opportunity to see from the very proposal of law and reasoning, this is a really short regulation, but I would dare say in terms of what is regulated and very important especially in terms of the fight against corruption and organised crime, i.e. the rewarding of people who will be directly judges, so deal with items from that domain, from that area. In the very Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, as we had the opportunity to hear it in the opening statement, two new things are added. One thing is therefore, or point, relating to the presidents of the county courts, but as set out in Article 24. The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, where a coefficient of 5,80 and other matters in point 7 of that same article is laid down for their work, where the judges of the county courts referred to in point 6 of this Article are determined for the conduct of those criminal cases, so the cases of corruption and organised crime for them shall be determined as a coefficient of 5.70. I think that, in the context of the debate on this law itself, two things should be highlighted or highlighted. The first is that so far, the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers has not set the salaries of the Presidents of the Courts and Judges for Criminal Cases in accordance with the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. And it is certainly and therefore the need to make certain amendments in this law, the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, in particular these amendments that I have already mentioned. And the other thing to point out is that given the specificity of these offences, I would dare say that the specificity and conduct and the severity of those offences, therefore, and the only conduct in these criminal cases and the rules of procedure are prescribed in those cases and it is determined that special departments are set up, so I stress the special departments in the county courts referred to in Article 24. The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. So also in this organisational sense, we get some new elements, which in any case were also the basis or reason to go towards the addition of the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is absolutely in favour of all these reasons, this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21574	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished counterpart, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this proposal of a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. As we know, the salaries of judges in no country can be reduced with the view that Croatia has long been a signator of the Montreal Convention, where there must be an exceptional reduction in judges' salaries, if economic opportunities in one country are drastically difficult. However, here today we are talking with joy about increasing wages to those judges who have applied for work in the so-called so-called “. ” Jumpers. But we at the SDP club are really asking a question, as the USKOK Act was passed far away in 2000, 2001. where there are certain Jumping Courts, together when we set up the Jump. So the question arises, which is why these Jumping Courts weren't implemented under the USCOD Act. As far as we know, and only by drawing information from the media the basic problem was that the judges refused to put under a provision they did not agree to but had to agree to those who wanted to work in the USKOK i.e. State's attorneys and deputies of state's attorneys. We've had a very violent reaction and the Association of Judges that will rule it and who would control it. Here, we see that the times unfortunately had to change drastically to take the seriousness of the situation and that here's the association anymore, the Association of Judges is not so tumultuous especially when you don't have to. So when we talk about jumping vessels as a new creation, like not the wetlands of yesterday or today, or from a month ago, it's a lie. The jumping courts had to work since 2001 when the USKOK Law was formed and when it was formed parallelly and USKOK. Here, unfortunately it didn't come to that. It has come but not in an adequate way, so the jumping courts still exist today but there are judges doing it without checking, judges who do otherwise regular cases and without any checking. The public was scandalned when she heard who so far were designated as judges working in that department. So, of course it's good and there's no other way out or any reason. However, the needs require that all the checks that pass and the state's attorneys pass the judges. Of course, as well as state lawyers are particularly rewarded for this work, the situation is imposed itself and the pay is increased by those judges who volunteer and who are then determined to work in these special departments that will be located at the county courts. However, the salaries of judges open up another problem and allow just a few notes. We all know well, or here you gentlemen from the ministry, State Secretary that there are judges who have a norm somewhere 80-90%, somewhere on the border 75%, some even lower, they are already problematic for those most toleranced colleagues but there are extraordinary judges, there are judges who are more or less easy to meet the 180% standard. It has been a far-reaching project since 2000, which, due to obstacles and major obstructions on its own, has probably never achieved an even approximately such norm, has been in the way of this project, so-called. the project "Hercules" which also had Slovenia and thanks to which she in the good part solved the lags. Namely, all the judges were invited, so-called "hercules" judges who can handle with ease 150 to 180% of norms to be particularly paid for their additional work because this work was not just work on a regular basis. It must have been working at home and writing decisions. Of course, some funds should be allocated because these judges receive the same salary as those who meet the 80% standard. I'm saying, that's why I first mentioned it, there's a Montreal Convention that talks about pay equality, the minimum wage, but no one defends especially in these extraordinary circumstances where Croatia still stands today in terms of the judiciary for solving the backlogs of how they are dealt with in the cheapest way and in the fastest way possible. We tried here with different measures. Some were systematic, some were slightly slowed down, and then we had some ad hoc measures like those of less-loaded courts that would take over cases from loaded courts, we changed systematic laws several times to remove all obstructions of all participants in the process, so that the judge would finally become a master in the process, to sanction those who obstruct. However, all of this goes more or less but not with such a need, not with such expectations primarily of citizens and, above all, those who have addressed the judicial authorities, and unfortunately these are more and more so that every fourth family has one case in the court and now, that is, a four-member family and that is, now every three-member family has one. So each third Croat is by the number of these or those types of objects in the broadest sense of the word is in front of these judicial bodies, which requires huge resources. We also see that the project of this settlement is now on its way, that the ministry has a certain propaganda which is good to encourage citizens to settle their disputes in a peaceful manner. There is no need to discourage the situation that a large number of people will not appear from the beginning. These are the established practices and experiences of the countries of one America that first introduced the calm that from the beginning this still slowed the proceedings. First, invite them to settle the dispute peacefully in a calm manner and then go into a regular procedure. However, when the people, this minority began to realize that they were rapidly resolving their own disputes, it led to the fact that a huge case no longer comes to regular courts at all, so that even the states changed the laws, so that only cases of extremely high dispute and in certain types of dispute come to trial, so in those countries, which is America where reconciliation or alternative ways of resolving disputes are developed. So, I'm just mentioning this in this context so it's a good idea to consider just taking the judges' prizes, and this is a good basis for how the judges who are motivated came forward. So, congratulatory, most frequent among the congratulators who have reported themselves first and foremost for verification and whose state is willing to pay for something extra. It's not like I don't know how big and much bigger the amount, but you can see how motivated it was. So this kind of "uranilovka" that is present cannot continue to survive or is not motivated to solve these lags. And so, no matter how much money we invested in these or those measures they didn't give so much to say such results or not to such a deadline as was expected. You need to seriously consider whatever the crisis is. These are the funds that will be multiple, which will be paid in one year. So, if the court were to be determined, of course it would be the judges. There's a project there, and here's what I suggest to the secretary of state in the ministry that can be completed and refreshed anyway. This is what I say had the same project "Hercules" had Slovenia, she had the same, if not worse problems than we had with the other items and within a very short time she came up with one satisfactory, one number and one regularity in dealing with the situation in which they were. I mean, I'm saying there'd be a lot of judges who'd answer. These are experienced judges and here, supporting such a bill on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials may be considered also by implementing the Hercules plan that judges would also pay for in order to resolve the backlogs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21576	Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Boris Sprem, signed up. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and Associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, I join my colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic in seeking to accept this legislative proposal because it happens at a time when due to the specific situation in which we are as a country, a specific exit from the situation is required, of course, one of the measures proposed is to increase the salaries of those people, those judges and their bosses who will work to combat the crimes of corruption and organised crime. It is a pity that, when the area has already been affected, the presidents of the department of those courts have not been included, since, of course, the President of the County Court is also responsible for the repression of these criminal offences. However, this came out in a debate on the Committee on Justice and that remark is good. However, when I thought little about what she would mean because she went further with one conclusion that it would be good to pass a new Law on the salaries of judges at all, to align to the end relations between judges within courts, but also between judges and judicial officials. You've opened one question that's in the next. What about the salaries of other users, or those who carry out certain other public activities? For years, it's been an abandoned area of doctor's salary. For years. That's all I'm opening up as one question if there's a question that we will systematically address the problem of the judges' salaries. Because it's one thing to open this question on this issue because, as we know, we need it right now, and the other thing is when it comes to settling relationships in courts at all, and it concerns judges as categories of important social work. I'm glad that Professor Hebrang also joined the debate about it, he knows well that we have a situation today that we miss others, so the profession, especially in this medical branch so that we now have a situation that, I'm this rough, I'll just say that I know that it may not be right in this topic, but in the context of our future work when we think about how we're going to set ourselves up to other professions to say the judge of the municipal court at the beginning has paid more than a doctor who is also starting to do a responsible job for even double. Watch out, for even double. It is a situation in Croatia. The county court judge has at least 60, 70% higher salary, I'll compare him to a specialist doctor. The Supreme Court judge has a much higher salary than he does. I'm just warning you about that problem. Let's not go easy on changing the Law on Judges' Payments because we're going to open other important issues, and I'm saying not to open it, but to just open it up in a way that makes it a systematic approach and a systematic way. And I won't even talk about the field of education. Here, I wanted to emphasise this and once again say I support this intervention in this law because I think I will then contribute to the repression of corruption and organised crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21578	Thank you very much, fellow Spremo. A distinguished colleague colleague, Damir Sesvečan, also applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21579	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers proposes to determine the coefficients for the calculation of the salary of the President of the County Courts in which the judicial departments for the handling of criminal offences under the jurisdiction of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, etc. the jumpsuits and the coefficients of the judges of those departments, since they have not been determined so far. As it is said, and the State Secretary spoke of this, the conduct in corruption and organised crime cases in accordance with the USKOK Act, Article 24 of the District Courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, where these special judicial departments were established on 6 November this year, based on the Rules of Procedure of the Court. Since it is the trial of the most difficult and complex crimes that require special expertise, responsibility, and I would suggest that judges who will judge corruption and organised crime also have higher salaries than other judges of county courts, which is absolutely appropriate in view of the type of criminal offences. Therefore, in particular this law proposes that the coefficient for the calculation of the salary of the president of the county courts in which the USKOK departments are established be 5,80, and the judges of those departments 5,70, which is at the level of the Deputy Director of USKOK who also has a coefficient of 5,70. For the sake of comparison, I will say that in the framework of the judicial authority, the same coefficient is the judges of the administrative court and the judges of the High Commercial and High Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia, and in comparison with the state officials, the salary is at the level of the vice president of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, vice governor of the Croatian National Bank. For example, parliamentary representatives, state secretaries have a lower coefficient of 5.27, and first the senior 6.42 have judges of the Constitutional Court, ministers, the attorney general, the chief state auditor and the presidents of the working bodies. The salaries of judges, as well as others, therefore of judicial officials, but also of officials in the authorities of the state administration, are thus determined by multiplying the basis for the calculation of the salary by the coefficient, and the basis for the calculation is the same as the basis for the calculation of the salaries of civil servants and of the furniture established at the level of 5 108 kuna gross. This would mean more specifically how we had the opportunity to hear, in the media there was talk, data was presented, and it can be calculated that USKOK judges will therefore have cca 2,700 kunas of higher salary, or higher salary than other county judges. It is also important to point out that for the implementation of this law, therefore, for the settlement of salaries or pay gaps of 30 judges, how many will be selected by the four presidents of the county courts, according to this law, in the following year, 5 million kuna will be required. And in the end, I will say that of course I support the adoption of this law because its adoption is also an important element for fighting corruption and organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21580	Thank you very much, fellow representative. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Is the Proposer coming forward? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank all those who participated in this debate. I thank you for the support that we see this law in this House will get. It is indeed indisputable that until yesterday we had judges who, by a solution and by the decision of the President of the Court of Justice, were designated as judges who had tried the cases of the jurisdiction of the USKOK but now we have a much better organization and we have actually special departments in these four courts. I wish we could cheer up actually by such an increase and a much larger number of actually judges and other structures of our administrative bodies, however, here is the representative, Mr. Shmrem, who said that the judges did not actually go so badly in this whole division within all of our state bodies. As for the performance and exposure of the changes that are happening in the judiciary and pending cases, I can say that a few years ago we had a million and 600 thousand unsolved cases. Today we're at 900 and a few thousand of which a significant number one good piece of waste on the infringements I believe we'll do in a relatively, relatively short time and solve them. We took these precisely, which means in 2008 very strong and significant measures. We've passed a new law on areas and seats of municipal courts where we're going to have a much more rational network of municipal courts and where we're just expecting to get that number of judges that we're going to be able to engage in solving those lagging and unsolved cases. We have made changes to the procedural laws that will actually allow judges themselves to be much better in the process and process, and means that these procedures do not extend, that there is no abuse in them than they do much more liquid and much faster. So when we combine all this together I believe that the changes will be seen very quickly, but as I have repeated nothing can happen overnight, and that is why it takes some time here, and the reports that we are getting from the European Commission are actually constantly making progress that is really evident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21582	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21583	15. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 203. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21584	And we're moving on to the next point. This is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 210 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. Reports from the board meeting you received on the benches. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. The applicant's representative is State Secretary Drazen Bošnjaković. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental objective of the adoption of this law is the equalisation of citizens and legal persons from the Member States of the European Union with domestic persons in the acquisition of property rights and, in accordance with the commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, with the exception of those exceptions set out in Appendix 7 to the Agreement relating to agricultural land and property in protected areas. Following commitments under this Act, the suspension of administrative procedures under official duty shall be prescribed in matters of obtaining consent to acquire the right of ownership which have been initiated under the provisions of Articles 356 and 357. The law on ownership and other real rights for the benefit of citizens and legal persons from the Member States of the European Union who have not yet been legally terminated until the entry into force of this law. This also regulates the qualification of legal affairs aimed at obtaining the right of ownership of foreign persons on real estate in the Republic of Croatia and which legal transactions have been concluded by persons from EU Member States until the entry into force of this law. It is found that the Republic of Croatia as the holder of property ownership in an excluded area in which a foreign person cannot inherit property and the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to pay compensation to a foreign person who cannot through inheritance become the owner of the property. This fills a legal gap with regard to the designation of the holder of the ownership of these properties. In addition, as a business of regular administration, the entire real estate, which is decided by co-owners, is also prescribed by the majority of votes to rent and lease joint parts of the building or to establish other legal relations related to the establishment, maintenance and development of electronic communications infrastructure and the payment of fees to owners in accordance with specific regulations. The quoted provision allows the effective application of the provisions of the Law on electronic communications relating to the construction, maintenance and use of electronic telecommunications infrastructure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The laws on electronic telecommunications shall allow owners of built commercial or residential buildings to access all operators for the purpose of setting, maintaining and developing electronic telecommunications networks and related electronic communications equipment. The proposed provision facilitates the achievement of assumptions for obtaining building permits and other approvals requiring prior acquisition of the consent of the owner or co-owner of the property. That provision implements the principles and rules of the European Union in national legislation in the field of telecommunications. We are also in line with the Law on Electronic Telecommunications and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Areaal, Regional Self-Government and Articles 1, 2 and 5. The date of entry into force of this Act shall be fixed on 1 February 2009, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 1 and 5 which enter into force on 17 May 2009, i.e. On the date of entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on local and regional and regional self-government. So this law implements the SAA that enters into force in these necessary provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21586	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21587	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate, I would point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights. On 29 November 2001, the Republic of Croatia concluded a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Community and their Member States, which entered into force on 1 February 2005. By that agreement, the Republic of Croatia took the obligation to comply with its legislation relating to the acquisition of property in the Republic of Croatia in relation to citizens and legal persons of the European Union in a way that is equal to domestic citizens. So far, acquisition of the right of ownership of strict natural and legal persons on property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Law on ownership and other real rights as a general regulation which, in relation to foreign persons with general assumptions, is prescribed and certain specific assumptions of acquisition and restrictive rules in relation to a particular property as well as through certain specific laws for a certain type of property under which foreigners are denied the right to acquire property for a particular purpose. Thus, property declared to be of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is agricultural land, property in protected areas, forests and forest land, foreigners cannot acquire ownership rights on any basis unless an international contract sets out otherwise as well as in cases of non-compliance with specific rules in relation to the issue of reciprocity and consent of the Minister of Justice's affairs. Having regard to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to adapt its legislation within 4 years of the entry into force of the agreement ending on 1 February 2009, citizens and legal persons from the Member States of the European Union shall be equalised to domestic persons when they acquire ownership rights in the Republic of Croatia, subject to conditions laid down for domestic persons other than excluded property and real estate under specific rules, which means only under general and not until now, and special conditions for acquiring ownership. Furthermore, the legal relations that arise in cases where a foreign person cannot inherit property by way of inheritance in such a way as to obtain, instead of real estate, the right to compensation according to the rules on extradition, which fills the current legal void of ownership in an excluded area which could not have been the subject of succession. Now the owner of these properties becomes the Republic of Croatia, which is then also a liability to compensation. This final proposal also harmonizes the terminology contained in the Law on Property and other foreign rights with the terminology contained in the recently signed Law on Electronic Communications, which is consistent and consistent with the signed agreement in question. In view of the above, and given that the proposed amendments by the Republic of Croatia fulfil the obligation under the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21588	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. It is on behalf of the SDP representative club, the distinguished representative of Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It was long ago when this agreement was signed since 2001 and what obligations should now be translated into law. But is this exactly the kind of law and whether or not it's just over what's been signed so that someone doesn't mind us? What we want to point out on behalf of the SDP club immediately is that property cannot be protected by any norm, nor by the most restrictive but economic power and economic strength of its own citizens. It is too high to say that we are, in an unequal situation, an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia with economic power, i.e. with a citizen of the European Union countries. And despite such an initial inequality, a normative equality is sought in which we then signed our own inequality. However, how to come out of protecting, above all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to protect property that is public good, which in no way, and regardless of the economic power of its own citizens, should become a matter that is on the market but what has long been said in the ancient Roman right of things without extra commerciality. However, we are in charge here or in a very vague way remain issues that are crucial to the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about Croatian waters, we're talking about Croatian forests. How Croatian are they and how long will they stay Croatian? Well, this isn't just a question of nomotechnics. These are the system laws in one country. There's nothing in this moment, but to protect what belongs to everyone, especially in these situations. So many developed countries that have found themselves in an economic crisis, which will still hit them far, far less than the poorer ones, perhaps later, a few months later, but much more dangerous. These are issues of national interest, issues of Croatia's survival. The question of the forest, the question of the water, the sea, the harbor. Now we open up and privatize things in one way or another that shouldn't be privatized, but we shouldn't even be discriminated against. The moment has come, it is our negotiating situation that we cannot therefore wait for Croatia's entry into the European Union to say and norms will only apply as Croatia enters the European Union. But what we can do now and what's the question of wit, and the question at the end of pride for which we and others, and some principles on which others will judge and appreciate us. A small country such as Croatia can gain reputation and preserve it by leading only a principled policy. Protect your own, but don't discriminate against anyone. But we often fall on that exam, the first and second parts of this sentence of mine. And then it's always someone else's fault. It's often our fault. Here, in this provision of Article 3, a new provision that states that foreigners without any obstacles, so under the same assumptions that apply to the acquisition of ownership rights for citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as legal persons established in the Republic of Croatia will acquire property rights over real estate. Article 2 refers to these land, i.e. those properties, those things that are excluded, and is about agricultural land which is defined by specific law and is about protected parts of nature according to special law. What about the woods? What about water wells, or properties that surround water? We have a procedure and we are in, here in the agenda is included the Water Act, the Water Law Proposal and the Water Good. Nor should it be said that he is in direct contrast with the law, with this law, the existing Law on Property and other real rights, and even with these amendments that have been announced and which are now the subject of our debate. The public knows little about these things. The public is often bombarded with some of the less important things, because at the end of the day, the thing starts from the beginning, determined. It is good that individual ministries, then the government as a whole, announces some changes to hear different opinions, that preparations are eventually addressed for application, because eventually all these laws apply to them. There's little people know about this. The applicant speaks in the assessment of the situation and mentions forests and forest land, but here, then it would be concluded from the argument that there is a protection against traffic, sales and other types of traffic forest land. But that can't be enough explanation, or if the law says it's not supposed to, then we're not going to protect the woods. And do we even want to protect the woods? How do we protect the killing of agricultural land? There will be a big debate tomorrow on agricultural land. And what's agricultural anyway? Tonight, tomorrow, the local self-government unit says it's no longer agricultural land. She's come up with a plan, and it's building land. And then the stranger will buy. Here are our media reports that Mr. Kempinski has already made golf, still waiting for Croatia to pass the Golf Law, golf courses. And it's all something that touches what's left. So, everything we have experienced and experienced in privatisation, what has happened to our social enterprises and whose consequences are still felt today, which has traumatized Croatia to a long-term, long-term, far more dangerous thing. These are resources, these are non-renewable goods, and once we alienate them, it's for good. It's incomprehensible why the woods aren't exactly here. There's still time to react that way. We have passed a whole series of provisions that have changed some existing laws on maritime goods and ports, about some other laws that we wanted to protect above all sea-belts, small islands. It is said so that they cannot be bought unless they first offer themselves to the state, so we have an institution of first-price rights. However, the question arises, I ask him by who knows how many times, how many cases have the state used to buy first? And what did the state buy? The truth is, she bought a lot of woods and now the state bought the woods, now she's not protecting them, she's gonna sell them to strangers, because our citizen has to sell both his own property and his own grandfather. They won't be buying ours. We can't even preserve what our grandfathers and great-grandfathers have preserved. That's me thinking serious things that go beyond any and any political agenda. This is a matter of national interest to the Republic of Croatia. As before was the invasion from the east, the rebels inside, so the attack on the Republic of Croatia, so now this issue is of national interest. I mean, here's a colleague of Hebrang's getting along, I'd love to. So these are some things that have to be done and I don't mind. We have to do this, but we can do it in a way that we don't discriminate against anyone to ban our citizens from buying forests, but we can't prevent someone from saying that this way you're preventing economic development, investment, foreign investment, as if domestic investment is worth less if they are. Investments are investments. All you need to see is that it's pure capital, not some kind of suspect, because then they only have damage. Therefore, it should be protected in any case to list that this is also about forests, it should finally be defined regardless of the unit's and local self-government's right to dispose of its properties, but no one has the right to reduce agricultural or forest land. It could in some ways be executed, a repurpose could be carried out, but under strictly specified conditions. In this way we have a whole series of laws that allow not only units of local self-government, but also in certain and other laws to impoverish agricultural land. So here we have recently changed the Law on the Forests, which we have said is exactly, that we have changed the Law on the Forests and we have poored the forest in a way that we are helping to develop a small economy and we are going to meet the units of local self-government. And there's nothing about this small economy, but it's nice to get to an attractive construction area, which was a beautiful forest until yesterday, it's either built near the city or mostly in the best part of town. Once the Property Act and other real rights were fundamental laws. Other laws could only tighten the regime, but today, unfortunately, we have a situation, so now this Water Act, which will also be under discussion by the Law on Agricultural Land and all these other laws, very resilient and very dangerous for Croatia, derivates the eternal and fundamental provisions of the Law on Property and other real rights, in this political space, those fundamentals, even when we had state, social property, some fundamental provisions, the principles of real law were preserved. We have to keep an eye on it, let's not let the law about golf courses derogate the Law of Property and other real rights. It's not serious. I mean, the team then the country is no longer in bananas, but then it becomes a banana state. And it's dangerous and we can't let that happen. Here we must speak very soberly, without any hatred, without any bitterness. This is a common interest. How much interest that is and what our interest in this was said, or the recent Bishop’s Conference or part of it was manifested in the need to protect what has always served, which has been a public good, which has served all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21590	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word came from an esteemed colleague of Luke Denon. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21591	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21592	Comrade Denon, I apologize to you. I neglected my application to correct the allegations, my colleague Matkovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think there's one piece here I can agree with my colleague Ingrid, but I can't agree with these findings of hers about us bringing into a position she was talking about that forests, water, agricultural land, etc. that some of these things are actually settled by special laws, so it is in any case inalienable for and unacceptable that anyone can come to these properties, i.e. those properties owned by the Republic of Croatia and the like. I'd just like to say to my colleagues, Ingrid, that you should have kept an eye on it in 2001 on November 29th when you signed this agreement. Why was he not in the interest of Croatian citizens when you signed off on poverty for 20 years, not 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21594	Thank you very much. Once again, my apologies to my colleague, Denoni, and I ask him to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21595	That I'm going to skip these opening words of greetings stand as before with great respect, of course. So we have one law that is out of three, four sheets of paper that no one smart would say is against it, because it is something that is no matter what authority, but the Croatian government has committed to something, and that is primarily for the reason that as soon as possible, the simpler and painless we enter the European Union as I am sure now and we belong. But when I read this law, I also thought that there was not much to be debated, that everything was settled, so I read it in part and then I realized somewhere that it was of interest to the Republic of Croatia, that we had protected agricultural land, special reserves and some other areas and protected areas. And I was sure that in this protected or otherwise area we were also Croatian forests. But when it is read in one real way, it is very clear that the restriction introduced into the law in that law, we know which it is spoken of, after the signing of the agreement, and this law on amendments to the Law on Forests and forests are not introduced in addition to the agreement as an exceptional area, and these properties of foreign persons from the Member State of the European Union, could be obtained from the day of entry into force of this law under the same conditions as domestic persons. Perhaps for your information, for our information we are not talking about a small space, if it is to trust statistics, then Croatia has 44% of Croatian territory consist of forests and forest land. Someone this easy to give that 44% of forests or areas of the forest can buy, not Croatian citizens, they don't have that kind of money, I don't think any smart country should allow it. At a price, I will now say something that I never thought I would say in this House, or that it will come out of my mouth, because I am carrying this star of the European Union, at the cost of not entering the Union. If that's so that 44% of the territory of Croatian forests and forest land can be bought by foreigners, then I don't think we're good masters. No matter who signed the agreement, no matter what I do today, I don't know what's hiding in that add-on to that Stability Pact, and it might be convenient for us to one day find out what it says in that supplement, to what we've committed ourselves to what we have to do. Is there any other solutions? Or is there anything else wrong with us? For example, when we talked about the law, about the special laws on property declared to be of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and in respect of which the special regime is prescribed, foreigners cannot acquire ownership by any means by reference to agricultural land, property in protected areas, forests and forest land, this was the old way, so the score is unless the international contract provides for anything else. Of course the agreement is an international contract, but you see, this morning we had a debate about the agricultural land that was protected here. According to this agricultural land can't be bought, but it also says it's protected, so the decimal point is and stands this sentence unless by an international contract which is not specified otherwise. And what is an international contract? I'll try to say very clearly and very briefly. The international contract is also what the clerk signed somewhere as a record like what happened to us at ZERP, and it has the power to interpret other international contracts. And I ask that such a sentence or that sentence supplement in the second Agricultural Land Act be deleted so as not to come again, here we are now, by means of an international contract or by means of the official signature of some record, in an opportunity to sell to foreigners and what we think is now protected. Of course, there are a number of ways to negotiate and negotiate with the European Union. And now I don't understand why our negotiating team didn't look at how other countries somehow did it, so there's a lot of ways to talk and negotiate. If a small Malta who is of vital interest not to resell that little Malta as badly as we all want to sell out our country with our whole heart, if that little Malta has managed to bring the status in the negotiations that no one can buy any property in Malta if there is no five years of permanent stay in Malta, then so are the Malteses living outside. Why were we unable to protect at least 44% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia declared a forest and forest land in these negotiations? I don't know if our citizens know that apart from the properties they will now purchase in the Adriatic, 44% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia can be bought, Croatian citizens will not buy but will buy foreigners. And it would simply be my recommendation, then, that this few of us Croats who have some bit of purchasing power have to buy on Velebit what little forest or Velebit is left, but I suppose it would be good to go shopping right now to buy this side of Velebit that looks at the sea, not the other one that will be less valuable and then simply declare Croatia as a small reserve, so there we are if we continue to sell this way and what I once thought was Croatian good. Croatia's forests from tomorrow and when we pass this law can no longer be called Croatian forests but only forest or foreign forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21596	Two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21597	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. Well, counterpart Denona, apparently something had started long ago around the woods in Croatia because the 1996 Law on Returning and Compensation of Property also says that they are returning to the woods. And one of my colleagues says that in 46, a little pig is probably taken and then a 120-pound pig returns because it's about the same age now. And Croatian forestry has invested in it. Unfortunately, this new 2005 Forests Act, too, also felt that the forests were held at least state-owned forests that could not be sold, but apparently something else is behind the law now, especially behind this, but apparently it is also designed because in this forest law too, it is said that in the work of private forest or private forest owners they are allowed to do the basis for the burden of the state, that someone else, the advisory service to do so to them, etc. So obviously that's still then. Where we will sell and we will allow them to weigh the state budget of the new programme and what is already in Croatian forestry for 250 years to pay them once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21598	Second replica, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21599	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, Mr Denona mentioned that there are certain disemboweling statements, interpretations of the application of the SAA that we are talking about today, which is the purchase of real estate and sale of real estate in one country as it is now Croatia enters into force here in the following year. However, I would draw attention, as a respected university professor at the Committee on Legislatives mentioned today, to the principle of reciprocity. The principle of reciprocity and reciprocity is valid between the two countries, the two countries, and I guess it also applies between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the European Union because this principle will now be violated by the fact that citizens of the European Union will be able to buy these properties in the Republic of Croatia but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not be able to buy real estate in any Member State of the European Union. So I call on the Government, despite the pressures it has been put on by the European Union, to try to agree on the principle of reciprocity here. That is why I suggest that this legislative proposal that we now have before us be revised in a way that respects this principle of reciprocity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21600	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21601	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As we know, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in 2001. He came into force in 2005. We have a period of four years which did not apply these provisions on the possibility of citizens of EU member states buying real estate with us under conditions as well as our citizens. That deadline expires in 1.2.2009. We that we do not even adopt an integral part of our legislation is the SAA that is directly applicable. All these concerns that you have highlighted to me would be appreciated, given that the wording of the SAA is very clear that there are exceptions to agricultural land, compared to those protected goods, I am sorry and I would be much, much more pleased if the forest had been said in the SAA in 2001. However, not to raise a great temperature from the total forest surfaces in the Republic of Croatia 80% is owned by the Republic of Croatia. These remaining 20% in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Forests for the sale of the same are the right of the first purchase of the Republic of Croatia so I don't think this can happen what has been expressed here in fear. So it's simply a law that we're implementing that was signed in 2001 that came into force in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21602	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21603	I can understand everything, but in reason, I'm reading it, so it says, so I'm correcting your incorrect quote where you say that the state forests that are state forests won't come, that they won't be bought. It doesn't say state woods here, it says, you wrote it not me. So on page 8. ... to be precise foreign persons cannot acquire the right of ownership in forests and forest land until now, however, since this restriction has been introduced into that law after the signing of the agreement, and by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, the National Journal has not been introduced in the Appendix to the Agreement since 2002, I do not know what it says in the addendum of the Agreement as an exceptional area, and these properties of foreign persons from the Member States of the European Union could, from the date of entry into force of this law, be obtained under the same conditions as domestic persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nowhere does it say Croatian, state-owned forests, private forests. It's written in the woods. 44% of Croatia's space is forest, it says forest. Or correct it so it can write state, private and something to be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21604	The "Zeitnot" came up with a rather shortened explanation of the opinion and views of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that discussed the draft of this law today. The debate highlighted, and during the debate, we consulted with the chief negotiator, Mr Vladimir Drobnjak, and we also consulted this Appendix 7. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was that of the state, whether private or not, with this observation that 80% of the state-owned, forest land is a state-owned land, that 20% of whom, the forest land, including the Makia, and so what is expensive and the state has the right to buy first with that facility that the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union and the Chief Negotiator will consider this problem by taking account of what Croatia has requested in those transitional periods of real estate. So this issue will be discussed in the context of the negotiations. That it would be negotiated by the government's negotiating team, that it would open the issue as part of a debate and set up negotiating positions. And for the time being, it was also with one vote that the unanimity of the Constitutional Committee held that, yes, this amendment to this Law of Ownership and other real rights should only be effected by nomotechnical law, because, as the Secretary of State says, it would be applied since it is an international contract and this is a Stabilisation and Association Treaty of stronger legal power above the law and applied by law, by the force of the Constitution, and that from that time when it is the first time, that foreigners except these exceptions relating to agricultural land and to the parts which the parks of nature therefore protect them from having the same right. The same is true, this issue of mutuality has been resolved. By entering the European Union, this full principle is in practice applied in some ways because there is no more reciprocity because everyone has the right to do so. And those exceptions for them, also, counterpart Denon, for those exceptions Croatia still struggles to get what Malta got, which is what Poland got, and we now have with this law yes and, that exclusive agricultural land from selling to foreigners is only relatively worth it. If Croatia gets what it received as, which Poland has received for 12 years, will Croatia get, will we deal with it, will there be a shorter period? So some minor period. Then, by completing the negotiations and ratifying the treaty with the European Union, the same agricultural land goes into legal traffic. It's the same with the particular parts that apply, it's going to solve this same negotiating position as the coastal parts that... Out of traffic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 70 meters from the sea, right, from the coastal line. That is, all this is solved through these negotiating positions and it is still open, but that is the principle of non-discrimination. There can be no inequality towards Croatian citizens, to Croatian citizens, to citizens of EU member states and vice versa. And this principle of reciprocity under these same conditions is valid in full.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21605	.../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21606	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21607	I ask you as Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament while you chair the sittings that in every law that carries this sentence is a decimal, so if by means of an international contract which is another specific point, that sentence is deleted or added that such a law must first come, the international contract must first come here before the Croatian Parliament to know what it is about not to have such an officer or someone signed the minutes again, so it is an international agreement. That's what I'm asking you because that's the way it is in the agricultural land now that's going to come into debate, that's how it's still standing somewhere else, and try to get it through the boards to get it out of the way, we're not doing it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21608	But dear fellow, every international treaty must come to ratification in the Parliament. Therefore, this fear cannot come to an end and the fear that something will not be solved by an international treaty for a sentence like this because this international treaty must in any case come before this Parliament and this Parliament should ratify it here. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21609	16. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Property Act and other real rights. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 210. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary first proposed an amendment to the Committee on Justice. Amendment 1 to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21610	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21611	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Then the Legislative Committee on Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21612	This amendment in the first part is accepted as regards Article 2. In the second part of Article 358, we do not accept because our expression is more precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21613	We agree with this argument. We accept... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21614	So he was accepted the way the secretary of state interpreted him. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21615	And everyone else...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21616	On Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21617	We accept all other amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21618	The other amendments were adopted including the Rules of Procedure Committee and so on. So these amendments are accepted. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, most of the 96 votes in favour and 8 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights, together with the amendments adopted And one abstention. [[Intruder: One abstention was.]] Where are we gonna turn him down from the first ones? Please, were there any abstentions? [[Intruder: One abstention.]] One abstention. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Take him away from those who are in favor. Okay. He was one, and therefore we determine that he was and then give it to us at last. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Rights has therefore been adopted by the majority of votes; 93 votes to, 8 against and 1 abstention along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21619	We are going to the next item - Final draft law amending and supplementing the State Border Control Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 213 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21620	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the State Border Control Act. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on State Border Control in 2003 and began to apply on 7 November 2003. In practical application of the law, certain shortcomings have been identified both in terms of content and normative, which are sought to remove by this proposal of the law. However, in these few years since the adoption and application of this law, the Ministry of the Interior has carried out a number of other activities that have brought a complete system of integrated management and border surveillance into line with European standards. Over the past few years in the MUP has worked intensively to improve and reach European Union standards, especially in the area of taking control of the future external borders of the European Union, which will be one of the longest in Europe. A number of laws and sublegislative acts in line with the European acquis have been adopted and more bilateral agreements have been signed to improve businesses in areas of justice, freedom and security. The final criterion for Chapter 24 has also been met. – Justice, freedom and security, i.e. an updated Action Plan for Integrated Border Management of the Republic of Croatia has been developed. On 10 April this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the European Union to Chapter 24 and also committed to the European Commission. Last March, the Schengen Action Plan was adopted, and on 12 June 2008, the government adopted a report on the implementation of the Schengen Action Plan, which clearly sets out the obligations of all competent institutions in preparation for full implementation of the Schengen standards. One part must be completed by the date of entry into the European Union while one part of the activity is carried out after entering the European Union, joining the Schengen Information System and setting up a siren office for data exchange. So, since the adoption of the law, the Ministry of the Interior has indeed done another additional large-scale job, we have increasing results in border surveillance, which can also be seen from the number of illegal crossings across the state border, which is in decline each year and a significantly smaller number of illegal crossings we have this year compared to, say, 2000 or 2001, and this trend is getting better every year, making sure that Croatia is more and more ready to protect its borders that will be the external borders of the European Union by entering the Republic of Croatia. So, this law, i.e. the law on amendments and additions to the law, is another normative activity to correct and correct those laws that have not shown good in practice or have been insufficient and to further comply with this law with the European acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21621	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? Integration? Moristo, traffic and connections? Internal policy and national security? Nothing. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21622	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the obligations to comply with national legislation with the standards of the European Union and the planned obligations and deadlines laid down in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union, the obligation to draw up the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border has arisen. In order to fully comply with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union since 15 March 2006, so-called The Schengen Code of Borders. Article 1 provides for and is added a provision explaining the application of the Schengen Implementation Agreement in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, experts in the European Union have indicated that in certain provisions of the applicable State Border Control Act, Articles 3, 8, 9 and 17 that an expression is used incorrectly after the entry into force of the Schengen Implementing Agreement. Since that agreement is already in force but is not yet in force in the Republic of Croatia and it is necessary to find an expression that will determine the existence of two phases of harmonisation with the provisions of the Schengen Implementing Agreement. For the Schengen Implementation Agreement, it sets common rules for visas, border control at external borders, judicial co-operation and police and customs cooperation, and in order to allow the freedom of movement of persons within the area of EU member states. In this connection, a complex information system is established, so-called the "Complex Information System". The Schengen Information System shall exchange information on the identity of certain persons, goods and things. The application of the agreement will be implemented in two stages. The date of entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia will begin with the application of the Schengen Implementation Agreement other than the provisions relating to single visas and the Schengen Information System, which is the first stage. In accordance with the necessary assumptions and conditions for the full application of the Schengen Implementing Agreement, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union shall take a decision to abolish border control at internal borders and from that moment on, the Schengen Implementing Agreement shall be fully applicable and that is the second stage of the Agreement. The coordination refers to a series of provisions that will highlight only a few of the most important provisions. An exemption has been prescribed from the obligation to cross the state border since the application of the Schengen Implementation Agreement in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the external borders at the border crossing, and for certain types of vessels, an exemption is prescribed from the obligation to sail or sail from the port to the territory of the Republic of Croatia which is the border crossing and the obligation to subject border control to certain types of vessels. There is also a way of carrying out border control and over which persons are subject to basic and over which border control is based. The border control of certain persons, including minors and day-old migrants, is required. The obligation of the competent authority to obtain the prior consent of the Ministry of Interior in the process of issuing the local authorisation and other necessary permits for buildings within 100 metres of the border line. It is also prescribed in which cases for road communications and non-border traffic routes is prescribed in which cases of road communication and roads which are not in a function of border traffic can be prevented. The amendments and additions to the Law on State Border Control have been proposed in order to fully comply with the provisions of the Schengen Code on Borders and to fulfil one of the conditions laid down in Chapter 24 – Justice, freedom and security in the accession process to the European Union. In order to achieve the strategic objective of the Republic of Croatia towards full membership in the European Union or the achievement of European standards over the past few years, intensive activities in the area of state border management have been carried out which have resulted in significant achievements in all areas relevant to border police. This is how the strategic documents adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are based on an integrated border management strategy with a corresponding action plan completely amended the legislative framework in the field of border police work. The staff fill-in and training shall be performed on a continuous basis. Programmes and trainings are constantly in line with training programmes for EU member states' border police. In addition, continuous equipment shall be carried out with the most modern technical equipment for state border surveillance activities, both from pre-accession funds and from its own budgets, including thermal devices, travel document control devices, ship refurbishment at sea and rivers, etc. An advanced state border management information system has been established for the time being at 9 border crossings which have the ability to import into the Scehngen Information System, which is a prerequisite for effective control of the future external borders of the European Union. The expansion of this system is under way to an additional 25 border crossings covering about 90% of traffic at the future external border or around 70 million passengers per year. For the illustration, it should be pointed out that over all the border crossings of the Republic of Croatia somewhere around 189 border crossings per year are about 150 million passengers. According to established priorities in international border police cooperation, appropriate agreements are concluded with both neighbouring Member States and non-members of the European Union and with agencies relevant for the border police, and in April of this year a working agreement was signed on operational cooperation with Frontex or an independent agency responsible for coordinating operational measures at the external borders of the European Union based in Warsaw. All of these activities have so far resulted in a better efficiency in curbing all forms of cross-border crime, and in particular in countering illegal migration. There has been a continuing decline in illegal migration in the past 2000 when more than 24 thousand illegal crossings of the state border were recorded while around 4300 illegal crossings of the state border were recorded in 2007. For example, only this year in carrying out state border surveillance operations has been detected and seized in 811 cases of about 122 kilograms of intoxicating drugs, 79 cases of arms smuggling have been reported, several trafficking chains of persons in interagency and international co-operation, more cigarettes and registered other forms of smuggling across the state border concerned vehicles and technical equipment. Here I am no longer in debt for these activities showing the results of the work of the border police and police, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21623	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21624	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasant Party will support the text of the bill in question, as it also improves the existing solutions in addition to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legal gains of the European Union, and whose shortcomings have been observed during the current application of the law. In short, we will explain the reasons why we support the text in question. First of all, because of the termological and other alignment with international standards, and the provisions of other applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal creates preconditions to facilitate the work of police and other our respective institutions, with neighbouring countries and international partners, particularly in matters related to crossing the state border, border approval, temporary border crossing. The terms and conditions of construction and equipment of border crossings and obligations of operators, construction and installation of buildings in the area of border crossings, obligations of persons carrying out activities in the area of border crossings shall be prescribed. The obligations of air carriers shall be prescribed, the place of operation and the costs of border control, the arrangement of the area along the border and the prevention of communication, as well as a number of others. Of all the issues mentioned, which we will not explain individually now, the government's determination and proposals to strengthen international police co-operation with neighbours and other international partners are seen in particular. We also express hope that there will be as little problems in practical law enforcement as possible, on monitoring, coordination and organisation of the implementation of measures and solutions in police affairs at the state border, airports and sea ports, open to international transport, on the territorial sea and inland seawaters, inland waterways and on illegal migration operations. We are also convinced that by giving power to the competent minister for the adoption of sub-legislative regulations, it contributes to rapid and operational action in concrete situations, and thus contributes to the speedy resolution of possible procedural problems. Following this, we point out once again that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the proposed law, as the proposed solutions in addition to the foreign policy objectives are supported and objectives at national level on security measures and other issues that ensure more effective protection of the Croatian border and thus contribute to the overall security of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21625	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Advocacy, which she does not have, Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21626	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We got another one in a series of laws this year that bear the P.Z.E. mark. harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Whenever it comes to a proposal to amend the State Border Control Act, it means that it is a matter that is very important for Croatia. The first reason is that Croatia's border is one of the longest in the world by population, because we have four and a half million inhabitants, and the border is over 3,000 kilometers, if we compare ourselves to Poland, which has 10 times the population, and the border is shorter than ours. Another reason is that the Republic of Croatia is located in a rather sensitive geostrategic and political position and space. It is known that many routes and organised crime and drug trafficking and trafficking are crossed through the Republic of Croatia. As a result, we hope that these amendments and additions to the State Border Control Act will also ensure even better and greater efficiency in the control and control of the state border. The proposed solutions shall comply with the standards applicable in the European Union countries. In the Law on the Control of the State Border, in order to better distinguish the two stages of adaptation, since certain provisions are in force only after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, from the beginning of the application of the Schengen Implementing Agreement in the Republic of Croatia, while the entry into force of certain provisions depends on the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union to abolish border control at internal borders, i.e. at the time of the full application of the Schengen Implementing Agreement. In the provision of Article 10 of the applicable law relating to the issue of border clearance, a new paragraph has been added to which the power of the Minister of the Interior has been laid down to lay down the grounds for issuing the border authorisation by sublaw, given that there have been problems in the case of interpretation of that concept. The provisions of Article 10 of this proposal also amend Article 20 of the applicable law and add new articles to which, for certain types of vessels, exemptions are prescribed from the obligation to sail or sail from the port to the territory of the Republic of Croatia which is the border crossing and the obligation to submit border controls to certain types of vessels. This should be introduced into this proposal in order to comply with the provisions of Article 6(5) of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 2006 and it is proposed that these provisions enter into force on the date of application of the Schengen Implementation Agreement in the Republic of Croatia. In order to bring the State Border Control Act into line with Article 7 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2006 new provisions concerning the implementation of basic and thorough border controls have been proposed. Article 22 of this proposal amends Article 37 of the applicable law governing the regulation of the area along the border and the prevention of communication, and it is now in the process of adopting spatial plans that plan to edit the area within 100 metres of the borderline for the purpose of ensuring general security and transparency of the border, and the Ministry is obliged to submit to the holder of the spatial plan the requirements for the development of the spatial plan. The competent administrative authority in the process of issuing a local permit a solution to the conditions of construction, i.e. a solution to the state of execution for construction areas, shall be obliged to obtain the consent of the ministry. The agreement will not be issued if the building would interfere with the exercise of border control and the exercise of state border control. Article 37 shall regulate which roads and roads, which are not in the function of border traffic, can be prevented from crossing the state border illegally outside the border crossing point. It is also arranged when ramps and obstacles can be placed on private property. The criminal provisions of this proposal of the State Border Control Act are in line with the content of those amendments and additions and with the provisions of the Criminal Law. All these amendments and additions to the Law on the Control of the State Borders are proposed in order to fully comply with the provisions of the Schengen Code on Borders, in order to meet one of the conditions laid down in Chapter 24. – Justice, freedom and security for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. I think it's a good proposal to amend and supplement the Border Control Act and that it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21627	Thank you. Final review, secretary of state at the interior ministry Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21628	Here I would just like to thank you for your support and say that we accept the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21629	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21630	18, Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Border Control, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 213. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure, they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the State Border Control Act was adopted unanimously by 103 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21635	We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 94 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Mr. Representative Ivo Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21636	Thank you. Well, here's what I would suggest, since the SDP club has also proposed the additions of the Public Roads Act to join these two points, so let's do these two bill proposals today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21637	I would very much like to satisfy your proposal, but it is prevented by the Rules of Procedure, because as regards your proposal for a law included in the agenda, there are no business assumptions yet, because the relevant committees have not taken a stand and gave their opinion and the Government has not given their opinion, so I cannot.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21638	I mean, the board, the Maritime, Traffic and Communications Committee, they gave their opinion, so here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21639	The government didn't give, and I made a lapus the government didn't give. It'll be second chance then. Why not? State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Drazen Breglac will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow a few introductory sentences on these amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads. These amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads as a final proposal come to you mainly motivated by compliance with European Union regulations, in particular with the three directives of the European Community relating to fees paid for the use of certain infrastructures for heavy goods vehicles relating to... electronic toll collection systems and minimum safety requirements for tunnels on the trans-European road network. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to compliance with the above-mentioned Directives of the European Union, certain amendments and additions to the laws have been proposed for the sake of clear expression as well as for the necessary improvements that have been observed in the meantime, i.e. the follow-up of the law so far. Following compliance with those Directives, the European Community introduces new provisions in force. In particular, the basic criteria for the determination of the level of toll although the Public Roads Act did not lay down the criteria for the determination of toll tolls on highways in essence and so far have been established by the observation of those criteria, but we explicitly attribute these amendments to the law by harmonising it. Furthermore, conditions for interoperability, toll collection systems are also regulated, i.e. electronic toll collection systems must allow toll collection using at least one of the following three technologies, satellite vehicle positioning as first possibilities, mobile communications using GSM, GPRS standards, and microwave technology at the frequency of 5.8 gigahertz which is also already in use. The minimum safety requirements for tunnels are further established, changing for tunnels longer than 500 metres on roads and on state roads. These are requirements that restrict the prevention of critical events that may have consequences for the endangerment of human life, environment and tunnel installations, and the provision of protection in case of accidents. The legal framework for the appointment of security officers for each tunnel will also be set up to coordinate all preventive and protective measures in order to ensure maximum safety of all road users. These areas of compliance with the European Union Regulation are regulated through 7 new articles supplementing the Law on Public Roads. These articles will enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, as mentioned earlier in the provisions on the criteria for determining the level of toll on the interoperability of the system and on minimum safety requirements for tunnels. One of the improvements that do not concern direct compliance with European Union rules is the addition of the applicable provisions on the rights of persons with disabilities, and it represents meeting the requirements of many persons with physical impairment and their associations. In particular, additions to the 2006 law have established the right of a person with a certain degree of physical impairment that for the use of public roads and highways for a private car owned does not pay an annual fee when registering motor vehicles and do not pay tolls. With this proposed addition, the applicable provisions of the law extend that right to persons who have a certain percentage of physical damage and use a personal car based on a contract and on a lease. So, not only do people who have cars in their possession, but those who have a car in their possession, based on a lease contract. Finally, in this opening statement, allow me to declare the adoption of amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21641	Thank you. Maritime, transport and communications committees? Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21642	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 18th session held on 4 December discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 94, which was submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads as a parent working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The prime minister said the government had joined the creation of a new full text of the Law on Public Roads, which is expected in the process at the end of the second quarter at the end of 2009. The applicant pointed out that this law, whose adoption and adoption is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union in a part that is not yet in conformity or not fully harmonised. The law regulates the conditions for the interoperability of the toll collection system. The minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network, i.e. for tunnels of more than 500 metres on highways and state roads, shall be determined by entities which will manage the tunnels under public authority and establish safety parameters in tunnels. A legal framework for the appointment of security officers for each tunnel will be set up to coordinate all preventive and protective measures with a view to the maximum safety of all road users. The proposer said that the final draft law does not make any difference with the solutions offered in the draft law adopted at the first reading session of the Croatian Parliament since it is about amendments and additions that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is aligned with the legal acquis of the European Union in the area of minimum safety conditions in road tunnels and interoperability of road system charging. The debate also pointed out that the procedure also referred to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads of the Proposer of the SDP Club, which proposes to reduce the toll for the use of highways and facilities with a charge for less fuel consumption and means of transport leading to lower traffic consumption. It would therefore be advised to establish the categorisation of means of transport in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads and, based on the categorisation of the transport means, the Government will decide on the level of the user's compensation. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21643	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Mr. Agent Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21644	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union is one of the conditions for joining the European Union and one of the obligations arising from the negotiating position for Chapter 14 – Transport policy and alignment with road transport directives. This law regulates the conditions for the interoperability of the toll collection system, i.e. electronic systems must allow toll collection using at least one of the three technologies, satellites, GSM, GPRS or microwave technology. The law lays down minimum safety requirements for tunnels in a trans-European road network, i.e. for tunnels of more than 500 metres on state roads and highways, determines the entity in a legal person as a legal person with public authority but also a legal framework for its appointment. Article 2 is complemented by Article 4 which speaks of a network of public roads, so that public roads and highways make up a unique network of roads. It is necessary to coordinate construction and maintenance but also to implement an operational plan in the winter service. Article 3 is regulated by the harmonisation of the European Union Directive on the level of toll so that it can vary in accordance with the Euromission class. The Directive indicates that toll discounts can be applied to frequent users but cannot exceed 13% for vehicles whose maximum permissible weight exceeds 3.5 tonnes. I think it would be good if the European Union directive regulates the level of toll per km and category as well as the length of the time of issue, so we can avoid wine problems in Slovenia, but unfortunately we cannot influence it. Article 7 regulates the control of vehicles for exceptional transport as well as the axle load. We welcome the proposal that the measurement can also be attended by a representative of the legal person who manages the road and that the damage done for excessive use is regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations in each particular case. Article 9 and 10 regulates the solution of connections on the county road. This is certainly good because so far it has been regulated only for state roads and it is explicitly stated that it is the cost of investors. For example, it may be unpopular to say what is the cost of investors but the cost of investors will oblige investors to invest in the future in the design of new settlements, primarily new settlements on the road do not build connections on the state, county and local roads each, but to invest in the collective roads and thus only require one connection to the local, county and state roads which will certainly be in the future but also now have an impact on traffic safety. Article 11 regulates the setting of advertisements on the protection belt for the 35m highway, the 25m state road, the county road 15 and the local road 10m as well as the rest stops which contributes to better commercialisation of the space and its... does not affect traffic safety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 17 extends the circle of users who exercise the right to non-payment of road charges in the registration of motor vehicles which are the revenues of the County Road Administration. In fact, so far they've had the right of persons with 80% general disability and 60% damage to their lower extremities if they were the owners of the vehicle. By passing this law, the right is exercised if the vehicles were also on the lease and they are users of that lease. After the first reading on the problems of local self-government units as well as the financing of other public roads, the proposer said would be covered by a new law in preparation in the second quarter of 2009. The Croatian Democratic Community club will vote in favour of passing this law in a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21645	Thank you. SDP counseling club. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21646	Dear Vice-President, the representatives of the ministry, and I will only briefly remind you that this item of the agenda was to be found in the first reading at last session, the summer session of this Parliament, and that after my intervention, the Prime Minister suggested that it go into two readings at the same session. It didn't happen, and I have to say, that's why I'm disappointed. Not because we did not adopt amendments and amendments to the law at the same session in two readings, but because of the basic reason why I intervened and suggested not to go into one reading was that I felt that there was a need to make important additions and amendments to the law or come up with a proposal for a new text of the law. At that time, I also reminded the prime minister and members of the government that the association of cities together with the USA and with the institutions of the European Union had drawn up a proposal for a new law on public roads and referred it to the competent authorities for consideration. I stress that this proposal is neither party nor in any way biased but is an attempt to raise serious problems from objective problems that arise in the section of the road on the distribution of maintenance funds and that it is necessary to find a solution that will give answers not to the satisfaction of all but that will find compromise results for this problem. I'm just going to set an example of my city that's not big. It extends to 35 square kilometers and has 65km of unclassified roads, 18km of state and 15km of county. The funds allocated to the city for the maintenance of these unclassified roads are allocated from the communal fee paid by all citizens regardless of whether they have motor vehicles or not, while at the same time the city as all cities, the municipalities are not participated in those funds that are collected or withdrawn from the price of gasoline or registration. I gave this introduction for a simple reason to point out that we don't really have a say in the club if we're going to back it up, be held back or against it. Why? If it's just coordination, there's no reason to be against it. But if it's about the requirement to really make a new law, I think it was time that those proposals, which were made by associations, cities and some other institutions by this date in December could come up with actually a new law that was now announced for the first quarter. The other one? Excuse me. It's the wrong information. What am I talking about right now? Because it is supposed to be found by the end of the year and a proposal for a road construction programme in the Republic of Croatia on the agenda of this Parliament. They would say to Zagorci: “A little bit on the hook”. But since this is an extremely complex and important issue for modern Croatia and for even more modern and more developed Croatia, this without consulting anyone, I must say that it might not be bad for both the programme and the new law to be found somewhere around the same time on the agenda. In particular, given the prime minister's announcements about sending a budget proposal for next year, probably as well as the railways will not be planned in the first year of the road infrastructure construction programme, capital facilities but probably more documentation and programmes stemming from the overall programme and that we try to bring them in line. And now a few examples that, where I'm a little bit of a name now of my colleagues from the ministry if we've already coordinated the directives, I think it's here already on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I'll be more concrete and a little more localist again. That is why it is not harmonised by the directive and that the actual price of kilometers paid on highways will be even, even in the whole of Croatia, because if it were done then I would probably immediately accept these changes of law because then the Zagreb-Macelj highway would not be 67% more expensive than the average price of kilometers on highways in the rest of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, we would be very pleased to have had a new law today, a new law that should be done by me and a new division of roads. These are all public roads we call and unclassified. Today it was on the Committee on Local Self-Government, it's supported, there's no president here, there's no vice president, and then let's just pass the information the law is supported by one, one vote against, one abstention to coordinate that public roads are actually all roads, but that there are state highways, there are regional roads and there are local roads. And then, in the future, to solve the issue of their funding. Because as we said in the association, here is the vice president of Neda Klaric's association, said no financial part of the new law and the classification of income and maintenance costs should be applied with the date of the law's adoption. As in some other laws, we have a transitional period, we know that there are great obligations of the Croatian roads, which are higher than credit and other obligations for the built or those currently being built and that we should say until conditions are created, as the vice-president or president would say, until the financial conditions for such distribution are created, that part of the law will not be applied, but we in local and regional self-government and the state can ultimately plan for two, three or five years ahead of what we will do, what we will invest and how we will maintain that network of roads that truly mean to all of us. There are regional divisions between us, cheers for different directions, but we all find ourselves on the road between Sibenik, Stankovac and Benkovec and then we are angry at the county or state roads, which is not exactly what they are arranged for, but in the winter when it comes to our roads, we object because ours are not arranged. I'm mostly asking the representatives of the ministry that indeed, we've had some talks, so it's been a while, and we know that there's a lot of traffic with you, and also with us in the cities that now after the new year, when the budgets are brought to re-seat representatives of the association of cities, the ministries and to try to find the most acceptable solutions that will benefit our citizens, not us left or right, not us positions or opposition, but simply all of us or someone in the house is driving or we're all drivers, we all want the standard as the State Secretary said, as the predecessor said to level the standard, to know what you're expecting on that road, and there's really a common interest in solving certain problems, so what the... The initiative was submitted by Honorable counterpart Habek, who refers to motorcyclists so as not to get into a situation where they pay 20 lip tolls again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there are legal ways to resolve it, as far as I hear something and the ministry is preparing it, so here's another call for the ministry to leave as soon as possible or start to discuss the new law's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21647	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21648	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. ... These changes are supported by all, therefore, the parent board and all parties in the Assembly, then there is really no need for me to point them out in particular, and so I will only say two sentences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it is good to bring this into line with EU legislation and bring it to an end, but I will also point out, in particular, that there is a step forward in the security of the tunnels, and that is, it is not only a matter of harmonisation, but also a matter of security improved, and I will also highlight these few things that relate to the improvement of the users of the highway, as concerns persons with physical damage who can now use their rights as the basis of the lease agreement, and not just the basis for ownership rights, which they have so far been able to do. And we see that and we allow toll discounts for frequent users who are well-limited, can't be more than 13%, but that's also good, and we see that we have to allow toll toll to one of the electronic charges used in the European Union. So, you just need to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21649	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, so this will not be out of the debate about this agenda point. In fact, the fact is that Mr. Vice-President of the SDP Parliament Shex said that because the government did not give its opinion on the SDP club proposal, which also concerns the amendment of this law does not mean that it cannot be said next. It's odd that the government was considering last Thursday's session, before actually, I don't know what point of the agenda you had on the agenda, but I only managed to find out from the media that it accepts, in fact, the idea of the SDP club and that motorcyclists are reducing that toll by 40% compared to owners, or users of personal vehicles, but I'm sorry that at the same time it wasn't translated into one concrete opinion, or a particular paprie which could then be decided by the SDP club that we withdraw the bill. So now we're going to have this law that, of course, with support and our most likely adoption, and then there's going to be an excuse that we can't even discuss it, which I don't think is natural, is not necessary. And that's why I'm sorry that the government didn't unite, so with the bill of law that's in the process of delivering opinions on this bill of ours, we'd end up in one move. That way we'll lose some more time needlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21651	Please. And bikers don't have to pay at Učka anymore? ... But there's no change, now it's going to give a little bit bigger. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Final review, State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21652	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, it's really one of those laws where we can talk, that we can characterize that it's above party and supremacy. The roads are a common problem and so it's easier with less, sometimes political passions to discuss this matter and that's the fact, that's true. However, this does not mean that it is easier, both for determination and for adoption, because in this law as well as for many others, certain natural interests are clashed, such as in this law of the local one, compared to the state, perhaps in private relations with general and all other natural conflicts that arise in many laws. This law has not spared them, however, and this law contains them in one large amount. In these few months, why did the first reading and the second reading not approach, or fail to propose a completely new law to this High House? There's a few reasons. The most important, and above all, one that is definitely a decision on whether to make a new law or not is to contribute is the uncertainty of the recent months around the overall financial fiscal framework and it seems that the state budget, as well as the possibility of the state, to ensure that all those commitments made in previous years from road construction are settled, so all this has to do with one significant one at this time financial uncertainty in the planning of large state finances. It reflects both the good part and this law. This law is not a regulation that could be changed every little, the Law on Public Roads is one of the most important laws that have serious implications for everyday life especially on the functioning of cities, municipalities, counties, county road administrations and in these very uncertain and difficult foreseeable circumstances resulting from financial and other uncertainty we simply felt that it was wise to wait for the first half of next year when many things would have to come to its place. That was the first reason. The second reason is that the complexity of this matter is closely related and that, in both the Law on Construction and the Law on concessions, both of course and inescapably and to local, or regional (regional) self-government and without this financial uncertainty that I was talking about earlier, it would be necessary to conduct a comprehensive debate for which there was still too little time if we wanted to talk about a quality new law. I am not personally familiar with the concrete initiative of which the respected representative Šprem spoke, the SDP on intervention in this law, but if it applies exclusively to the reduction of motorcycle tolls, then I can confirm, as you said, that the government has adopted a decision on the proposal of the concessionaires of the Croatian highways, which creates a new category of vehicle 1A which is made up of motorcycles and which has, whose toll is determined by 40% at a lower level than that for category one or for private vehicles. Such a proposal did not even need to be defined by law because there is a mechanism and this law provides that the proposal of concessionaires in this case by the Croatian Highways is to be made clear by the Government, either by its decision, whether it accepts or does not accept it and becomes as necessary and applicable as it has already been implemented in a specific case. So if that's all it was, then that's settled, so I hope the pleasure of all motorcyclists regardless of the initiative, and believe me, it's not even a newer date than a month ago, it's multiannual, and I'm sure all the party's motorcycles will be happy to welcome this decision that has already taken effect. Here I thank you for supporting all clubs and expect an interesting and above all useful debate in the next six months and, of course, one quality law such as the MPP, i.e. the Government's proposal for next year is scheduled until the end of the second quarter at the latest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21653	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Tomorrow continues at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act and after discussing the law probably around 13.00 hours of voting on already discussed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-04-0.u21654	17. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, second reading, P.Z. Number 94. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I give the vote: Final proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. Please, who's in? Thank you, Oppose? Thank you. Restraint? I find that most of the votes, 100 votes in favour, 3 against the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. I wish everyone a good morning and we'll start working today. I must inform you that we have technical problems with time measurements, so it will be measured manually, but don't be afraid that anyone will be interrupted. We are going to - Final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 124 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Environment Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by MP Boro Grubisic and the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
