ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8899	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The law attesting the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence is ratified by that Convention. The obligation to ratify the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence is foreseen by a national programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and stems from the negotiating position of Chapter 24 of Justice, Freedom and Security. Most of the Member States of the Council of Europe are parties to the European Convention. The Republic of Croatia signed this Convention on 7 April 2005. The purpose of the Convention, as stated in the preamble, is to create a framework in order to properly address the situation of victims of criminal acts of violence committed with the intention of suffering bodily injury or health impairment, dependent family members who have died from such criminal acts, and to develop a system for compensation for those victims by the State in whose territory such offences have been committed, in particular if the perpetrator has not been detected or if there is no means. By confirming this Convention, the Republic of Croatia will join a round of countries that, under its legislation, seek to implement the European Convention in order to protect the position of victims of criminal acts of violence committed with intent. The implementation of this Confirmation Act does not in itself require the provision of additional financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for damages to victims. Compared to Croatian legislation, the confirmation of this convention requires the adoption of a new law that will address the issue of compensation for damages. In accordance with the National Accession Programme, resulting from the negotiating position of Chapter 24. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for preparing a bill on damages to victims of criminal offences. But for the implementation of this Convention it is necessary to pass, as I have said. The adoption of a law on compensation for victims of criminal acts of violence for the implementation of this law will require the provision of financial resources which will be provided for in accordance with the law in the process of adoption of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8900	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8901	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us, there is a ratification of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, signed by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Republic of Croatia on 7 April 2005 in Helsinki. The basis for the adoption of the Confirmation Act of this Convention shall be as set out in Article 139(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which determines that the Croatian Parliament confirms international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of laws, international agreements, military and political nature and international contracts that are financially binding on the Republic of Croatia. By passing this law, the provisions of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence will form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and will be above the law by law. The provisions of the Convention as an international contract may only be amended or abolished subject to conditions and in accordance with the general rules of international law as laid down in Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence was drawn up in Strasbourg on 24 November 1983 and entered into force on 1 February 1988. To date, it has been signed by 30 states and ratified by 21 states. The Convention seeks to be achieved on the principles of social solidarity and justice, including the state in the compensation of the victims of violence who suffered physical injury or health impairment as a direct consequence of a deliberate act of violence and persons who were abstained from persons who died as victims of violence. Reimbursement shall be effected by State resources where the compensation for damages is not fully possible by seeking the perpetrators because he has not been detected or has no means, by seeking insurance or other sources, as well as in cases where the perpetrator cannot be processed or punished. The damages will depend on a specific case, should include lost earnings, treatment costs, hospital costs, funeral costs, and dependent family members, loss of restraint. The Convention presupposes the principle of territoriality, which means that compensation is paid by the State in whose area the violence has been committed to the citizens of the signatories of the Convention, and to the citizens of the members of the Council of Europe who are resident in the country where the crime of violence has been committed. The compensation system may set a minimum below and maximum over which compensation will not be paid and set a deadline for submission of applications. The compensation may be reduced or denied due to the financial situation of the applicant, the behaviour of the victim or applicant before, during or after the criminal part of the violence or to the injury or death, the involvement of the victim or applicant in organised crime or membership in an organisation used by acts of violence or because its award would be contrary to the sense of justice or public order. In order to prevent double compensation by the State or by the competent national authority, it may withdraw or request reimbursement of any amount of compensation received for injury or death from the perpetrator or from any other source. The Convention also contains provisions on international cooperation, ratification and accession, provisions that prescribe entry into force, declaration of reserves and cancellation provisions. Following ratification of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, as the State Secretary said, it will be necessary to access the adoption of laws which will systematically regulate this matter in the manner provided for in the Convention. The adoption of the Law on Compensation for Victims of Crimes of Violence is also foreseen by the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession to the European Union 2008 and by the plan for harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union for 2008. The obligation to adopt that law also stems from the negotiating position, Chapter 24 of justice, freedom and security in accordance with the Council of Ministers Directive 2004/80/EC of 29 April 2004. The Directive regulates systems for European Union countries and sets minimum standards for compensation for damages and mechanisms for cooperation in the provision of compensation for victims of violence in cross-border situations. The Directive, as well as the European Convention, concerns all victims of acts of violence, therefore include victims of terrorist acts. I would like to remind you that on 3 October last year, the Croatian Parliament confirmed the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which contains provisions on the protection, compensation and assistance of victims of terrorism and members of their immediate family. Also since 31 July 2003, the law on liability for damage caused by terrorist acts and public demonstrations has been in place, which has established a system of compensation for terrorist activities and other acts of violence aimed at serious violations of public order by intimidation and by causing a sense of fear and personal insecurity of citizens. The new Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence will need to fully address the system of rapid and fair compensation through state benefits to victims of all types of violence on the principle of social solidarity and justice, and in accordance with the legal regulation of the European Union. As the Proposer states for the implementation of this Law on Confirmation of the European Convention, it will not be necessary to provide additional financial resources from the State budget, but it will need to do so after the adoption of a new Law on Compensation for Victims of Crimes of Violence whose height in the adoption process will be foreseen. For these reasons, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence as well as the Emergency Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8902	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8903	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, we will, of course, support this bill at the SDSS Club. The reason is clear. It's about the damages of people who have been killed, and in this way it shows a social sensitivity for this suffering and damage, and the need for compensation for these cases, and on the other hand, it's a kind of public responsibility for these events and for the suffering of people who are not to blame. I also point out what it says here at the Convention. It is that this is done both on the principle of justice and on the principle of social solidarity. These are of course values that should be respected and installed in our legal system and applied in any case. I will warn this occasion of two things which, of course, do not question this provision that we will support this. First, it could be said that it has been a long time since the adoption of this Convention and since this date of 2005 when it was signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is a sensitive issue, it should not take much time for this to take place on the agenda and accept it this way. Here it explains that the Minister of Justice has appointed a working group and that it is considered that this law, which is supposed to apply, would be adopted and prepared in this year. I repeat, given that time is running easily, and given these experiences that have passed us and leaked us a great deal of time, I would like it not to leak out in 2008 so that this law is not passed again, but that it is actually passed this year and that we have the application of these Conventions. Another thing I need to warn you about is, this is this mechanism of helping people and in cases that this Convention treats in practical situations. We now have a mechanism by which when a person has a right to suffer or has a claim to claim compensation from the state then submits a request to the State's Attorney's Office for a settlement to determine the damages and so on. The current practice at the State's Attorney's Office, I don't, of course, enter into what are the concrete reasons and how can this be justified, but it is mainly about the fact that at that point, the State's Attorney's office doesn't actually have an agreement on behalf of the State, but the State's Attorney's office says, "We don't agree to a deal, you choose to prove your right and to exercise your right and to make compensation." I am warning of this because, which I fear would not be good if in the technology of realising this Convention at a point called the Ministry of Justice, where individuals would address it to exercise their right, we would not get the same technology in which people would refer to a court procedure and then we got one spiral that produces me a second injustice, and we're not going to get what it says here in principle is justice, social solidarity and this sense of sensitivity for people's suffering. I hope, of course, that these, these warnings and fears of mine will not come true, and on that behalf I repeat once again we will support this bill because of the content of these importances of this Convention without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8904	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8905	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. Just a few sentences. In fact, this convention, as we have the opportunity to see in this explanation, has been ratified by 21 states to date. So these are countries from Albania, Austria, Azerbaijan via Belgium, Cyprus, neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland. The purpose of this convention is exactly what is here and stated in this explanation. Thus, the purpose of the convention as stated in its preamble is “the creation of a framework in order to adequately address the situation of victims of acts of violence committed with the intention of suffering physical injury or health disorder, as well as the abstention of family members and persons who have died from such offences in the development of a compensation system by those victims by a country in whose territory such offences have been committed, in particular if the perpetrator has not been detected or if there is no means as well as the introduction of the most necessary provisions governing this area”, a finished quote. But the point is, as Mr. Gajica said, that all of this simply needs to be translated into law. So we have to agree on compensation fees for what they're going to be, and we normally have to pass that law as soon as I believe it'll be better. It is also clear that those who are prone to commit such acts of serious violence, as a rule under quotes, “have no property” or have property, but then skillfully hide property for cases that may happen to them to end up in prison, so that after leaving that prison with that property, they can restart the work they know best. They clearly remain victims, remain unsettled family members, stay children, stay parents, don't know spouses, etc. And in the future, as suggested here, the Croatian state should take care of them. That makes absolutely sense, you have the state, you have the power, you have the institutions of repression from the police, the state's attorney, I don't know the Ministry of Justice, all the way there to the judicial authorities. You have a secret service, etc. and now understandably accordingly, which is the task of the state, the community ensures life in a way that no one in any country is endangering anyone. And if the state has failed to do so, then let it clearly bear these budgetary consequences. As I understand this law he goes for it if someone commits, let's say, violence against an Austrian, then Croatia will compensate that family from Austria. But not only Austria, but clearly if someone commits damage to a national of the Republic of Croatia. After the Balkan mafia started, we have the opportunity to follow up, further connect, and what best testifies to this latest case of the Split Post, where gangs with Pala logistics we see provided by the first members of the Castelan HVIDRA, it is clear that Croatia also needs one such law. Yesterday I wondered if any of you could have been here in this assembly to imagine that somewhere, for example, the president of the fighting organization of SUBNOR could have been there in the 1960s, in the '70s, connected to the underworld from Italy, Poland, Austria, Germany or what I know about the countries. I'm not saying that so you can take care of yourself. There is no regret here, Djakic, where he sets himself up, because these people then compromise the entire system as one system can compromise the candidate for ethics and science, worshiper of Mile Budak, clearly the writer, and not the Minister of NDH. There have been no "waiters" in this country for the past few years, without doing Belgrade for the needs of the Croatian mafia and vice versa. The police often cannot clearly reach the perpetrators of these acts and understandably that in this case someone should take responsibility for himself, so let it be the state of Croatia that failed to prevent such behaviour in time, or prevent it. Yesterday, I read an interesting interview that he gave at the Globus General Zagorec. He talks about people who traded weapons from former prime ministers further. We're only talking about one person. There's obviously been a lot of them. He also talks about his 750 thousand euros that he lost, or because of the kidnapping, or as his son's ransom is said, he had to take the poor man's loan, no, to the 750,000 euros he's having a hard time paying off today. But that kind of kidnapping could be in the future, and these kind of cases don't seem to be treated by this convention, so maybe they should be taken care of as well. Everything in this place doesn't have much to say. It's a matter of clear support for the convention. The law should be passed as soon as possible. We need to secure the money in the budget. What is the point, however, Croatia must be a safe country. It must not be understood to distinguish between domestic and foreign persons. I think that must be it. One fee can't be paid for a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and another I guess bigger for a citizen from Austria or the UK. And if such a tragic case happens to him here, let's say a third fee for a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina because there are living and other standards much lower than in the Republic of Croatia. What is and is the most why I have reported how to add, say, such conventions, or rather how to treat abductions that are notes of violence against violence. I have the impression that the law is in some way written because of terrorist acts, although it has already regulated Croatia in its own way. But it is important for Croatia to be a safe country and it is important that what we are talking about today or we are talking about is a de facto European standard. What is certainly good, Croatia is still a safe country, a couple of excellent safe countries and on it should be built, I would say the politics of Croatia's performance towards third countries. Everything about everything like everyone else, so we don't talk about what we are out there in '96. years of working with the Law on Mandatory Relations, so that for some, under quotes "whatever" would not pay compensation for damages, and later all of this ended with the restoration of unnecessary assets, etc., so all of this law certainly does not have a club that will not support it and so much will be behind those provisions and these conventions stand up Club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8906	Thank you. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8907	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence with the Final Bill, fully aware, and I think we all agree that the various forms of criminal acts with the elements of violence from day to day are unfortunately escalating. This requires one of our joint commitment to oppose, and as a legislative authority, such violence with catastrophic consequences both for society and for the state and for the family. Likewise, laws are also the way society fights crime, especially the most dangerous. We're also aware that there are thugs, there are hit men, there are craft killers, there are those people who unfortunately appreciate so little other people's lives, who come across him, who kill others like they're doing the most harmless work. And for this reason, he is really looking forward to here, I hope today and tomorrow to confirm this European Convention on the Compensation of Victims' Crimes of Violence. However, here we have heard from Madam Secretary of State that in the Ministry of Justice there is a law which will ultimately implement what has been declared in this European Convention. If it remains only at the level of the declaration, if we wait a long time for such a law that we need, then in some ways we risk confusing the public that we are in some way defocusing it in its basic values and commitment. That is why I think we need to get an answer here today when this law will come because in this proposal for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2008 it is not apparent that such a law on compensation for victims of criminal offences will be passed at all this year. Of course, there is a need to provide additional resources, such funds are not small. And of course, unfortunately, like all good things cost, and something like that that one democratic step is, above all, in position and protecting the victims on their own who are victims of the most severe crimes, and their families, in the event of death, we need to get one decaded answers here and see what they're given to do. In fact, we will also agree that the position of the victim in our criminal legislation is not satisfactory. That we are often witnessing when the perpetrators of these most serious crimes are prosecuted, that in the adhesion procedure, therefore, the subsequent damage to the criminal proceedings, which allows the Code of Criminal Procedure, most often such applicants, i.e. the victim with his property-law claim, will be brought to trial and such proceedings will be long, long-term, even violent, or perpetrator of such crimes, are already out of prison, i.e. the penitentiary, and yet the victim does not realise his damages. It degrades the victim's position at all, and it also leads to difficult financial situations in such a single family, which ultimately re-exposes the country in one way or another with additional costs. But that is even, so we here together on these things could see what we can do today by considering this European Convention on the Compensation of Victims' Victims' Crimes in the current legislation, even waiting for this draft of the Law on Compensation of Victims' Crimes of Violence, so what we can already do in the existing law. We can do this so that the applicant of the property-law claim does not refer to the case. Therefore, the criminal court should be obliged to resolve, together with a decision on the guilt and decision on the claim of the victim for the damage suffered, it directly, or its successors, for the event of death. That would already be a significant step forward. In the end, it would reduce or protect state resources in some way, and that would provide for those victims where the perpetrator is unknown. We are also witnessing, unfortunately, that those most deadly acts, that the monstrous murders, the ones that have amazed our citizens that they have remained, unfortunately without a judicial epilogue because the perpetrators were not found. In such a case, the victim cannot even file a lawsuit and that is something, which is not very rare cases, but also, regardless of perhaps a small number relative to the percentage and participation of another type of crime, or in the overall mass of crime, we still have to take account of such cases as a society, because if they are not many, they too cause a great mistrust, one major disturbance among citizens if such situations are not as balanced as they are, or if the victim has not achieved or is unable to make compensation. I would also like to say something about this, too, that has not yet reached one real social condemnation of certain crimes, which are undoubtedly committed by violent behavior and are committed with intentional conduct. These are reckless driving, these are crimes from the head of traffic, traffic crimes which are still considered to be some crimes that can happen to anyone, and they happen to precisely reckless drivers also to those who drive in such a way and who don't care what the consequences are. There is no doubt that, in that part of our criminal legislation, it would have to suffer certain additions and be on the trail of modern European legislation, for example, France, which knows only the criminal act of reckless driving and when there are no adverse consequences because such abstract dangers in these offences are so great that it requires that there be special incrimination in criminal law, as well as driving in a drunken state itself, regardless of whether there were no tragic consequences. I think that in such a way that we differentiate these most difficult acts and the most difficult forms of some other minor behaviours and that in this particular point the blade of our criminal legislation must be directed primarily towards such criminal acts of violence, the intention of either being indifferent to other people's lives, other people's lives, or just going with that most direct intention to deprive others of life. I think it is good that the Republic of Croatia that we as a society are finally mature to see what the position of the victim is in our criminal legislation unlike the time perhaps ten years ago when even in the Law on Mandatory Relations has been suspended please a provision that speaks of the responsibility of the state for the crimes of violence. This is a great damage whose consequences are also felt today, where Croatia ultimately invested huge funds in acts of violence that were not only violence against property but directly and towards people who often had a result of the death of persons, and then after 2000 we passed those four small Laws on damages and these many proceedings are still before the court today. However, if we really want to achieve how much such justice, and especially given the legislation that reigned ten years ago, we can make a significant step here. Even when it is adopted under this European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes Special Law, we can do so since it is nevertheless a criminal law which now speaks and whose primary purpose is to protect victims and ensure their better position in criminal law, such a law does not have any constitutional obstacle to acting backwards so that those victims who today are not calmed down, where the perpetrator of criminal offences, where there may have already been an age of persecution under the Law on Mandatory Relations, such victims have not received any satisfaction either. Not only were lives destroyed, property destroyed, and families destroyed both mentally and physically. We had here a few years ago a good gesture that was announced, or stimulated by the Prime Minister himself when the victim of the Rabbit family was compensated. Unfortunately, however, that is mostly the case. We cannot just act from case to case, but such principles must be and must apply to all. Of course, I'm saying that it requires certain funds that aren't even small, but that means that the state doesn't need to be spared. In such a way, it best shows how democratic it is, how much it takes care of its citizens, how much it takes care of justice. It is also a good message to strengthen a civil and generally even business morality among our citizens. I think that such conduct and such an extraordinary effort would have a very positive effect. In view of this debate on this Convention on Compensation of damages, I think that this is another small contribution in which the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure should take place, and also the Criminal Law on the Special Head of Transport, which would then fully absorb all the principles of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes and in some way revitalise and affirm the position of the victim in our criminal proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8908	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8909	Well, it's an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague when she said there were no constitutional obstacles when we passed this law in terms of its retroactive application. Well, of course there are constitutional obstacles that are directly prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and as we all know only certain provisions of the law can have retroactive application, but only in exceptional, exceptional situations which are as such explained. An explicit constitutional prohibition is a ban on retroactive application of the laws adopted, i.e. provisions in that law that could be retroactively applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8910	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8911	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. I support the proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 2 May 2008. I believe that the adoption of this law is primarily necessary in order to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union as well as with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence has ratified 21 European countries so far. In 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate a procedure for signing the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, which was signed the same year. In the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union for 2008, the Ministry of Justice provided for the adoption of the Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence on the basis of Council Directive 2004/80/EC, which also stems from the negotiating position of Chapter 24 – Justice, Freedom and Security. The fundamental objective of that European Convention is to create a framework to properly address the situation of victims of acts of violence committed with intent, which have suffered physical injury or health impairment, and by supporting family members of persons who have died from the consequences of such offences. In the development of a compensation system for those victims by a country in which such offences have been committed, in particular if the perpetrator has not been detected or if there is no means as well as the introduction of the most necessary provisions governing this area. Furthermore, the European Convention contains provisions governing the basic principles relating to the payment of damages to victims of acts of violence which regulate what the damages are covered and in which cases the damages may be refused or reduced, and provisions on international cooperation. I believe that it is necessary to support the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, and following the adoption of the Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, the Republic of Croatia is accompanies countries which, in the course of their legislation, carry out the protection of victims of acts of violence committed with intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8912	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8913	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of the Crime of Violence. Of course, this law introduces domestic legislation and the legal standard that I would say we introduced in terms of compensation long ago for our pets cars, so it is correct to finally do the same for people, i.e. for victims of violence and those who have become materially threatened, and which victims of violence must eventually be supported. In fact, we know that in the area of liability for traffic damage, we have long said that in the case of an unregistered vehicle, it is then a local insurance company. If this is a foreign registration, we have also introduced a system of compensation for damages that guarantees security later, and we have also done so in case of an unknown perpetrator for certain forms. We are now introducing a model by which, in contrast to those damages where it is insurance, but also on the basis of the law, an official of the state to ensure and deprive victims of violence from, I repeat, the unknown or the one who has no material means. Namely, from the pest himself, and until now, the area of damage compensation has been legally settled, but in the event that he was in need or did not dispose of the means to appease the damage, then the injured remains a victim. In my opinion, I can say in one area, in the future for countries that have been signatories could be a relief for, I say, a fan group. In fact, often times and personally, I can find myself in a country where I always wonder when I'm following the team, so you're looking on the street if you're smart enough to even get on that path, given the circumstances that can happen and which can, and you want to participate in the successes of the Croatian team, and then I could say that this is a relief for at least countries that are signatories to the Convention, that at least you know in such events, which are often in the environment... Some of the violent men strike and in some ways damage you and the future of those whom you should have supported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, legally, compensation for the damages in which the state jumps, compensates for damages, asks for further damages, and makes up for those who did so. However, the issue of self - conduct and the impact on the possible violent behavior that you have caused in that compensation is well defined. And so we can say that this Convention, or the Law on the adoption of the Convention, is further progress and that is why I personally support it, and I believe everyone else, since it has also experienced unanimous support on the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8914	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8915	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In any case, this law, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims' Compensation of Crimes of Violence with the Final Proposal for Law, based on the principles of justice and solidarity, so one should also be supported by universal principles. However, I am afraid that a little bit here in all of our speeches as a cat around hot porridge and I will use the alibi of europeanism, I will avoid and I will ask Mrs. Secretary of State, because I wonder whether in this proposal, the law on the confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes comes in and what it may be called, in war action. So, in wartime. Like collateral damage. Furthermore, will this law be applied retrogradely or as Mrs Ingrid Anticevic said backwards? You know that in The Hague, a process is being conducted in which, as a fact, the finding is cited by the organised criminal enterprise of the Republic of Croatia or its officials. Therefore, we still do not know the outcome of the trial. Furthermore, did you base that on predicting how much the damage would be, therefore, based on what I'm now telling the victims of violence. I agree that each victim is equally valuable. So it is quite clear that it is necessary to compensate each victim regardless of any characteristics, but I ask myself, here I am asking you as State Secretary whether this law includes this period and whether the law will be applied retrogradely. If so, then perhaps the funds and not mentioned here are mentioned only to mention that the Republic of Croatia will secure from its budget the funds, but at least how indicatively they will be, in fact, no one actually knows. Furthermore, in this material we have obtained a list of our own state that ratified this Convention and for which it entered into force. So far, according to the European Convention, Albania has been ratified, etc., and I see here Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see... The Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I don't see, for example, the Republic of Serbia on this list. That's why, because of these two questions, I'd like to hear the secretary of state. In any case, any such European convention based on the principles of justice, therefore, I support the universal principle of justice and solidarity and I will support it, but clearly that certain questions should be explained here as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8916	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8917	Absolutely Croatia was the victim of the aggression of an institutional violence that was initiated by Slobodan Milosevic's regime against Croatia. The damage was clear on the other side. The Croatian state in some way dares to say payoffs or take care of the fact that somewhere around 6% of its budget is allocated annually for the needs of the defence population. First of all, I mean the dead, I mean the disabled. The Ministry of Civil Engineering is likely to single out 1%, perhaps two of the Croatian budgets for reconstruction in the war of the fallen but also what was needlessly destroyed after the "Storm". On my question, I think it was 2003 and 2006, Mr. Sanader decided to pay the Zac family compensation of 1.5 million kuna and that's one civilization principle, one civilization achievement. However, there are other cases such as the Rabbit family, and I believe that this should be resolved today in full and the future of all people living in these areas, one reconciliation but above all one democratic legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8918	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8919	I would counter-question Mr. Caine to ask if Mr. Cain thought that I didn't think that Croatia was a victim of aggression. ... But that's what you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, but I'm talking about a de facto indictment in The Hague, that's the problem, Mr. Cain. Furthermore, I agree with these principles of fairness and solidarity that we have talked about and for the sake of civil reconciliation and trust to implement this law, and to be clear. So I don't think there was a need for a replica. And this case the Rabbit you said was an individual case and it's really appropriate that as you say Mr. Sanader decided. But I'm talking about a lot of other cases that might show up, that might show up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8920	Final Review State Secretary Marina Dujmović Vuković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8921	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the purpose of this Convention and the confirmation of this Convention is to create exactly the framework in order to properly address the position of victims of acts of violence committed with intent. In the event that the compensation for the victims of certain other criminal offences is regulated by a special law, then the victims of the offences are made according to this special regulation entitled to compensation. I would also like to inform you that the task force has drawn up a working draft of the Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crime and we expect that we will prepare this law very quickly and refer it to the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8922	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8923	The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 57. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes with 112 votes in favour of and one abstention, the bill was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8924	We're going to the next point. - Final draft law on the termination of the law on the classification of unprocessed wood, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 58 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Herman Sušnik, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8925	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Law on the Classification of Unprocessed Wood was adopted in December 2004 in order to comply with the rules of the European Union and, in particular, with the Council Directive of the European Economic Community of 23 January 1968 concerning the classification of unprocessed wood. Under this law, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy adopted a Regulation on the measurement, classification and labelling of unprocessed wood and its application was delayed until 1 July 2008. On 21 May 2007, on a proposal from the European Commission, the Council recalled the Directive of 23 January 1968, so that its denunciation ended the reasons for the existence of those regulations, i.e. Laws and regulations. Because of a better understanding, the term unprocessed wood is cut down wood, decrusted and cut without bark or with it, chickened cross-sectionally or split. It is the raw material used by wood growers in their production and also by citizens through the purchase of heating wood. The most unprocessed wood produces Croatian forests d.o.o. which dominates 78% of the total forest area and forest land and a wood supply of 320 million cubic metres and 22% of the master private forest owners with a wood supply of 78 million cubic metres. In the state forests, the blade was a thief of about 5 million cc's of gross wood mass. In the private forests and through the forest advisory service found in 2007 105 thousand cc's of gross wood mass and there are far higher possibilities. From the original proposal to the law on the classification and marking of unprocessed wood originating in the Republic of Croatia, which is being placed on the market by the company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. The 2005 forest law separated the jurisdiction of Croatian forests and the forest advisory service, which is the law and the basis, i.e. She's taking care of the private woods. The classification of unprocessed wood is carried out before the law is passed and is now implemented according to the current Croatian norms, i.e. the area was equally defined. The denunciation of this Directive allows each Member State to define the criteria for the supply of wood raw materials that are best for the processing industry. ... the type, quality and dimensions of wood in raw condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The application of Croatian standards meets these criteria with domestic producers and also with customers from other countries. It is estimated that this will improve trade in quality wood raw materials which is otherwise deficited throughout the European Union, allow trade without restrictions and improve products from wood and furniture throughout Europe. We need to draw attention here that, therefore, the tree imported into the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the European Union does not need to be reclassified if it is classified according to the rules of the exporting country. Furthermore, unprocessed wood imported into the Republic of Croatia and non-member countries of the European Union also does not need to be reclassified if it is classified according to the country from which it is imported. That is why I propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the classification of unprocessed wood with the Final Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8926	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to stress that the HDZ Club supports the draft law on the qualification of unprocessed wood with the Final Bill. By the end of this law and before that of the European Union Directives which regulates this area and the Republic of Croatia and all European Union countries return to the national system of classification of unprocessed wood. In this way, Croatia is also returning to national classification standards. The European Union is exposed to the fierce competition of third countries and precisely the fact that last year the Council of Europe recalled a directive regulating this area confirms that the legislation of the European Union and the standards existing in the European Union are primarily in the role of strengthening the domestic economy and protecting domestic production in relation to third countries. Since the European Union and its members are also members of the WTO and it is clear that protection can no longer be carried out through high customs duties or high direct subsidies, therefore dominant ones are precisely quality standards such as those in the field of the classification of unprocessed wood. Although it is only about the abolition of existing regulations, especially which have not even entered into force in the Republic of Croatia unprocessed wood, therefore, decorated and cut down the tree without bark or crust, the chickened cross-sectionally or long-runned part of the national wealth, since the Republic of Croatia produces or cuts off about 5.5 million cubic metres of wood from which Croatian forests which run about 78% of the total forest surfaces cut about 5 million and the rest of the private forest owners. Croatia also has significant exports, so according to the 2007 data, we export about 600,000 cubic metres of unprocessed wood. It's a good thing we have unprocessed wood exports, but it would be much better to export finished products instead of logs. To export expensive furniture, to export highly finished products in which additional value would be incorporated, into which technology would be installed, in which the knowledge of our experts would be incorporated and into which the special knowledge of our designers would be incorporated. If we were to export furniture instead of logs, the ultimate economic effect would be much greater. There is no doubt that Croatia has a tradition in the production of furniture, that it has experts, and that at the moment we have a surplus in the external trade balance of about 15% when it comes to the processing and use of wood and furniture production. Therefore, it is necessary to take all that the export of unprocessed wood is multiple... through the export of furniture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The export surplus has particularly started to grow because the government has made a major step in strengthening the domestic wood industry with more than 50 million kuna subsidies going to the wood industry, the furniture industry, especially for strengthening that segment relating to design and marketing, because we have at least exploited our own opportunities and potential. Therefore, the HDZ Club welcomes the announced law on the processing and use of wood and wood products, which should make maximum use of the Croatian processing potential, the poverty base which is quality, certified and available and use the fact that we have experience and tradition in production. This amendment of the law allows for increasing competitiveness, creating design brands, and directing production towards high finalisation and quality, as this is our only chance to break through the demanding markets of the European Union and the world. Of course, the establishment should also be considered, the possibility of establishing a wood stock exchange, which would further regulate both the market and supply and demand, and the prices and maximum potential for the quality of unprocessed wood. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports all the efforts the government is making in this sector to make it more competitive and ultimately implement structural reforms, industrial reforms and markets. It is doubtless that our chance in high finalization, the creation of designer brands in furniture production with built-in additional value, with built-in additional knowledge and technology. We believe that this proposal for a law on the termination of the law on classification and unprocessed wood with the Final Proposal of the Law will create assumptions that will allow for the change of practice so far that Croatia exports the logs that are returning to Croatia again in the framework of finished products, very expensive furniture. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports and will vote in favour of the proposal for a law on the classification of unprocessed wood with the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8928	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8929	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So now that we're talking about it then we say that I have to go back a little bit, which is why even Croatian foresters started there in 1999 to prepare for the adoption of European norms for unprocessed wood. The basic difference between these norms, Croatian norms and these norms of Europeans is in the way of quality assessment or Croatian norms regulate this according to the purpose meaning of the logs for furnir, saw... , a wood for processing and a huge tree while European norms classify the processed tree according to quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A committee has been appointed for the production and harmonisation of normatives. The Commission has drawn up normative acts and conducted field education. A price list has also been developed for individual types or varieties. All of this is set until 2003. The full application of European standards was expected by Croatia's entry into the European Community. The application on the ground itself was primarily resisted by wood growers. The adoption of this Act in 2004 has been commented on as a determination to apply the European standard and to introduce order on the market for wooden varieties. Just to get the rule book and we can start using it. The Regulation on the measurement, classification and marking of unprocessed wood was adopted in 2005 and was drawn up by the Law Office without consultation with the profession, and immediately after adoption it was not fully adapted and had to be completed, and as time passed so was the initial determination in the introduction of European solvent standards, the start of application was delayed until 1.7.2007 and then again until 1.7.2008. The abolition of this Law also ceases to be a rule which is likely to welcome customers of wooden varieties in the Republic of Croatia with enthusiasm, and I am also afraid that Croatian forests are also looking forward to not having to take care of a new way of classification and also advisory forest service. Here's where it's said... The possibilities of Croatian forests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will only repeat that, in Croatia, about 2 million cubic cc's of unprocessed wood are produced annually, which is primarily intended for the domestic market. The majority of this wood coating is produced by Croatian forests and the smaller part by other forest owners. The impact of wood-covered forest owners will be increasingly significant. The reason for this is the return of the nationalised property, and thus there will be an increasing participation in the production of wood coverings. Each of them, as well as the Croatian Forests, will have to adapt to the growing presence of the European Community on the market of unprocessed woodwork. In such a market, there is the possibility of applying other standards primarily European but also agreed dimensions and quality. How, then, will it be classified and marked by an unprocessed round tree? Or we'll have a market mess with no control and no responsibility. I'm saying this from my current practice because a small part of the more high-quality troops have been sold through domestic and international competitions. So what now? It is necessary to obtain a licence, an export licence, buy on an international competition log and, even if you can buy by contract or by a forest owner, overlay them according to the requirements of a foreign buyer, put on your identification plate, load into the wagon and wait for payment at a far higher price than bought. No one is asking the validity, the question of the validity of that classification anymore. Therefore, the argument that it is necessary to abolish this law in order to simplify Croatian legislation by suspending unnecessary rules implemented by a special unit... And it's not standing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary to amend and supplement this law to the European Community's market adjustment choir. This will allow the application of Croatian standards, European norms, as well as mutual contracts between manufacturers and customers. This is also necessary for the forest law because... the service responsible for the forest owners and the classification and marking of wood coverings and their follow-up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But gentlemen, not with an escort that's been going on for 15 days. From all of this above, the SDP's Club of Representatives will not support the abolition of this law but rather proposes its addition and amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8930	Thank you. Final review by Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8931	Thank you very much. Here I would say briefly that there is no uniform norm in the European Union. So it's left to every country to use norms within the meaning of its system when this directive was adopted in 1968. 15 countries of the former European Economic Community have harmonised these standards. However, there are several norm systems in Germany. The new countries that have arrived in the European Union have practically kept their norms more or less than they had until then. It is well said here that Croatian forests as the largest raw material producer for the processing of wood industry want that wood raw material to remain within the borders of the Republic of Croatia, which is normal. I would just say that in 2007, here are exactly 2 million and 200 thousand cubes produced of such halves, meaning wood raw materials for processing in domestic wood-processing capacities, and that only 51 thousand cc's were exported through international bidding. It's only 2%. So here is the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and the state-owned company that this raw material to be processed on the domestic market and the wood industry can only say that last year it achieved a surplus of almost $100 million and that for the first three months of this year we already have a surplus of 63 million dollars. So he's more of a exporter than he's imported. And what is imported and what is exported mostly 70% is already a final wood product. So through these normatives and through the relations of forestry and wood industry, these relations will be further upgraded in order to be as correct and as quality as possible, and all in the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and the good economic results.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8932	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8933	Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Classification of Unprocessed Wood, P.Z. No. 58. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 28 against, are accepted by the final proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8934	We go to the following point: - Final proposal of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 27 The legislator is the Government. This is the second law reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, European Integration, Gender Equality, Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, representative Dragutin Lesar and representative Furio Radin. Representative for the Proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Marina Dujmovic-Vuković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8935	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The adoption of this law brings the legal aid system into line with the legal acquis of the European Union and this Directive on the provision of legal assistance in cross-border disputes, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, is consistent with the implementation of the Hague Conventions on Legal Assistance in Civil Administrative Matters. There is also a harmonisation to the relevant practice of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to the application of Article 6 of the Convention which prohibits discrimination on any basis or on the basis of material opportunities, in respect of a convention of guaranteed rights such as the right to access to court and the right to a fair trial. The proposed draft law builds on an already existing legal aid system which does not change in relation to existing specific laws. The law lays down two types of legal aid – primary and secondary. The primary legal assistance shall be authorised to provide clinics, legal clinics, authorised associations, trade unions and lawyers, and secondary legal assistance involving representation before the court, peaceful settlement of disputes before the court and letters in court proceedings shall be authorised to provide lawyers. It is important to point out that the legal assistance procedure is extremely simplified for the future user. Legal assistance is achieved by applying and giving a declaration of property opportunities for itself and by full-time members of his household. For this information, the applicant shall answer materially and criminally, and the only document to which the application is requested shall be a confirmation of the amount of income. All the other data the office has been checking out on its own if it considers it necessary. Property data are not required to provide only users of any kind of social care as well as defenders, as well as civilian and military disabled workers receiving supplies. The Office of the State Administration shall issue a manual which is an administrative act, thus ensuring that the Constitution guarantees the right to appeal. It is also important to say that authorised associations, trade unions and legal clinics are financed on the basis of the proposed projects, and that the amounts are obtained after the approved project in advance, quarterly, and that they are obliged to submit a report to the Ministry of Justice. Lawyers shall account for the instructions and shall be paid at the service performed. The law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication and the application to users shall start in April 2009 for which 18 million kuna is provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8936	Thank you. Legislative Committee, chairman of the committee, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go. Yeah, yeah. The Justice Committee. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8937	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 5th session held on 8 May 2008, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Bill on Free Legal Assistance, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 2 May 2008. The Committee discussed the draft law in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the powers set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement of the proposal's representative, he briefly referred to the fundamental issues which are regulated by law and to the solutions proposed by the final proposal in relation to the draft law. Members of the board unanimously supported the adoption of this law. The text of the final proposal of the Law on Free Legal Assistance contains the following comments, proposals and opinions. The opinion has also been expressed that the applicant has not sufficiently evaluated the initiatives of civil society associations in particular in the part of the proposal, which achieves the effectiveness of the legal aid process. The proposed regulation referred to in Article 16(1) and Article 17 in a way that deletes words and other documents and a list of documents, as it follows from the explanation of the final proposal that the only document to be attached to the exercise of the right to legal aid is the confirmation of the Tax Administration. Also, it is proposed to edit Article 17 in a way that prescribes that other documents check the office itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Taking into account the observations made in the debate of the proposing representatives, it adopted the comments on Article 16(1), Article 17 and Article 14 of the final proposal. The Justice Committee unanimously decided with nine votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8938	Thank you. The rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. European integration? Gender equality? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 8th session, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance. The Committee considered this law as an interested working body, primarily considering the extent to which proposed legal solutions contribute to the achievement and exercise of citizens' rights guaranteed by the Constitution and international human rights documents whose Republic of Croatia is a signator. By facilitating access to the court and to other state authorities and bodies with state authority, public powers, pardons which decide on their rights and obligations, i.e. the extent to which the proposed way of providing legal assistance and subsidising costs by the Republic of Croatia takes into account their material situation and other circumstances that make it difficult for them to exercise the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights. In the debate, the most controversial assessment of the proposed way of exercising the right to basic, i.e. primary legal aid, particularly in the part to be achieved through associations that have been most available to citizens in the past practice and have provided assistance in 70,000 cases annually. This first legal aid, which is particularly important for citizens, and particularly for those who are socially at risk, as it gives them basic information and guidance on the conduct of judicial, administrative and other proceedings, should be made known in the debate as easily and accessible as possible. It has been pointed out that there is no need for a number of advances required by the proposed law in order for a potential user to come up with a manual as an administrative act approving the use of one of the forms of legal aid laid down in this law. I express my opinion that there is no reason to worry about which the proposing representatives have warned that associations may abuse power under unequal conditions and under unequal conditions provide legal assistance and waste budgetary resources irrationally and provide legal assistance to those citizens who do not meet the conditions laid down. To point out that in the Croatian legal system, associations that received public authority by law already exist in the Croatian legal system and act in matters in which individual rights of citizens are decided. On the other hand, when it comes to organisations authorised to provide primary legal assistance, the proposed law provides for a number of mechanisms which prevent the abuse of powers by associations. The proposed law stipulates that associations intending to obtain the authority to provide primary legal assistance must pass the complex procedure of establishing and fulfilling the conditions for that type of activity after which the Ministry of Justice shall issue a decision authorising the association to provide primary legal assistance. Furthermore, the budget resources for providing legal assistance to associations are approved on the basis of projects, decision-making and control of the spending of funds in the management of competent national authorities, in particular the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The law also accurately determines the administrative and professional supervision of the work of the legal aid provider and empowers the Ministry of Justice to associate, unless it works in accordance with this law, prohibits the operation of that type of activity and to delete it from the register of associations, to delete it from the register of legal assistance associations. In view of the above, the majority of the board members, 8 votes for and 3 abstentions, decided to submit amendments which would add to the text of the final draft of the law 2 new Articles 15 and 16 to allow users to make direct contact with authorised legal aid providers, while presenting a confirmation of the tax administration of the amount of income of users and members of his household and the statement of property by the user. After the debate was held with the amendment, which, of course, was already received by the ministry, means after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Free Legal Assistance under that amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8940	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and we all know that the provision of the article of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms guarantees in all cases the right to access to court and the right to a fair trial. However, so far, the Republic of Croatia does not have a fully regulated system of legal assistance to certain categories of citizens who, due to their material and social conditions, cannot only provide free legal assistance in court and other proceedings. Some legal aid segments have been governed by the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Lawyership and some other regulations. However, those rules provide for free legal assistance only to certain categories of citizens and showed the necessary need to find other organisational forms of legal assistance, and one reason is that they have been abolished so-called. office days in municipal courts where citizens spoke and where they received legal advice. According to data from associations in the Republic of Croatia, the number of cases, i.e. the need for free legal assistance, is moving around 70 thousand. Legal assistance regulated by the proposed law is a way of facilitating access to the court and other bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens and foreigners in such a way that the costs are fully or partly borne by the Republic of Croatia, taking into account their material position and the circumstances so that they cannot exercise this right without jeopardising their abstention and maintaining members of their household. Under the proposed law, legal aid can be implemented as primary and secondary. The primary legal assistance shall include general legal information, legal advice, legal assistance in drawing up letters to administration authorities and legal persons with public authority, representation in administrative matters, legal assistance in the peaceful non-judicial settlement of disputes, representation before the European Court of Human Rights and international organisations, if this is in line with international contracts and rules on the work of those bodies. Secondary legal aid shall include representation before the court, legal assistance for the peaceful settlement of disputes before the court and the assembly of letters in court proceedings. It should be noted that the approval of any form of legal aid also includes the exemption from the payment of fees and the costs of the procedure. In addition to these 2 forms of legal aid, it should be said that the law also provides for legal aid for reasons of justice. Legal aid may be granted for reasons of fairness, i.e. it will be granted by the court responsible for deciding on the dispute if it considers that it is a complex procedure, that the party does not have the capacity to represent itself and that the material opportunities of the parties are such that the involvement of the lawyer could jeopardise the party's restraint and members of its household. Article 7 of the proposed law regulates who are users of legal aid. It is important to say that the applicant took care that users of legal aid are, in general, those who cannot bear the costs of legal aid without the risk of existential threat. Legal aid providers within the meaning of this law are lawyers, authorised associations and higher universities. By passing this law, it will allow citizens whose property is not able to hire lawyers, obtain legal assistance for certain legal actions and have equal access to judicial and administrative procedures. A more qualitative preparation of procedures and professional representation of parties will allow for more effective work by courts and other bodies that decide on the rights and obligations of citizens. It is also an extremely important fact that timely informing citizens and providing legal advice before the start of the procedure will certainly lead to a reduction in the number of procedures initiated because of the lack of knowledge of the parties' rights and obligations and opportunities for success in a particular legal matter. A system of supervision of the expertise of the legal assistance provided and the mechanisms for sanctioning unprofessional and unconscious treatment in the provision of legal assistance will also be established. The application of this law will also allow for the consistent application of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which govern the right to access the court and guarantee equality of all before the court. This law shall be adopted in the context of the process of negotiations of the Republic of Croatia for full membership in the European Union and the applicant shall take into account the compliance of this law with the acquis of the European Union. Finally, I would also like to point out that I am pleased to point out that the applicant has taken care of the compliance of this law with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which regulates access to justice in Article 13 in such a way as to oblige the States of the signatories to ensure effective access to justice to persons with disabilities and on the same basis as other persons. This law will ensure effective access to justice, persons with disabilities and those living on benefits from the social care system, given that social care benefits are not considered to be the basis of this law. Due to all this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8942	Thank you. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Vojislav Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8943	Mr. President of the Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club discussed this Final Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance provided by the government in a second reading to the president of the parliament. I must say that the large number of citizens we represent are in a very difficult material position and is very often uninformed about their rights and obligations so that they are very often unable to achieve these rights. In the Republic of Croatia, the Institute of Free Legal Assistance and until now was partially regulated by the provisions of the Law on Attorneyship, the Law on Prosecution, Criminal Law and others. However, some provisions of these laws and constitutional provisions have been found to conflict very often. As an example of the provision of the Law on Attorneyship, Croatian citizenship is set as a condition for the exercise of the right to free legal assistance. This directly damages Article 26. The Constitution that states that all citizens and foreigners are equal before courts and other state bodies with public authority, and Article 14 has also been injured. A constitution that says that all citizens are equal before the law, that they have the same rights and freedoms regardless of their race, national origin, birth and other differences. There is a chance that the conflict with the content of those laws and the Constitution will be overcome by the institute of free legal assistance just by adopting this Law on Free Legal Assistance. Until now, this aid has only been provided to certain categories such as refugees, returnees, displaced persons, and the criterion has been a purely low asset situation. Today, there is a need for the Institute of Free Legal Assistance to expand to some categories of low property such as pensioners, unemployed, single parents, etc. What we think is not good at the content of this bill is insisting on the mandatory procurement of instructions for providing primary legal assistance. In addition to coming to forms, citizens themselves must obtain a large number of documents that determine their property status, and only then can they address authorised legal aid providers. This procedure for many is complicated, and it may also be crucial to miss the legal deadlines in which legal aid is sought. We therefore believe that it is necessary to simplify the procedure for the use of primary legal assistance by addressing citizens directly to an aid provider that meets the legal requirements laid down by the user. The provider also has a legal obligation to submit in its quarterly reports its report to the supervisory authority and thus avoid the abuse of those reports. It is important to stress that it is not good that the real application of this law would be only after two years of its adoption, more precisely since 2010, which is too long for those who are calling for this type of assistance. The current bill does not foresee providing free assistance, legal assistance to returnees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia who have not yet regulated their status. Because in a formal sense, the words are neither foreigners nor citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is a violation of their fundamental human rights so that this bill is unfavourable for them and is contrary to the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the pre-accession process. The SDSS representative club supports the adoption of this law if these remarks are incorporated into the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8944	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8945	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. There is simply no dilemma that free legal aid is especially after we have abolished office days in courts after the 1990s, a civilization necessity, a deplorable need of regret from year to year of growing numbers of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. On page 33, it is literally said that the needs for legal aid have been assessed as follows. It can be estimated that associations provide legal aid annually in about 70,000 cases of which 85% or 59,000 and 500 cases relate to forms of legal aid whose funding is provided for by this law, and the legal aid provided by the Croatian Bar of Law annually is estimated at around 400 cases, and the number of cases in which courts approve representation in matters for which legal aid is provided by this law is estimated on average in 420 cases. Therefore, on the basis of these data, the annual number of legal aid needs is estimated at 60 thousand 242 requests. So this law provides some means for NGOs, lawyers who do these services. So you don't get the wrong idea that I think that's how they're financed. No, but simply follow the services they perform in or for the needs of Croatian citizens of the lowest social category. In 2008, this year, the needs of one million and 600 thousand kuna would be allocated, meaning within the ministry, to the purchase of equipment that could monitor this activity. In 2009, 6 Justice Department officials will be hired plus, here mentioning 59 employees, which will require providing 5 million 800 thousand kuna for their salaries, plus a million 570 thousand kuna for material expenditures. And for legal aid there in 2009, and without pay, 18 million kunas will be provided to go to either associations or some lawyers, and in 2010 29 million kuna should be provided for those needs, from which only salaries will go, people who will be employed in the Ministry, about 8.3 million kuna, or for the implementation of this law per capita should be provided 0.76 euros. The essence of this law is, in a sense, expressed in Article 8, which states that where the assets in cash form of the applicant and members of his household are not more than 20 minimum monthly basis for the accounting and payment of compulsory insurance contributions on the day of submission of the application. Therefore, under the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance by a Member of his household, he may be granted free legal assistance, i.e. where the applicant or the full-time members of his household own property other than assets in cash, whose total value does not exceed the amount of 20 minimum monthly basis for the calculation and payment of compulsory insurance contributions on the day of application, or where the applicant or the full-time members of his household own an apartment or house that is considered to be a satisfactory residence within the meaning of Article 3 of this Act, and where they own a car whose value does not exceed 18 minimum monthly basis for the accounting and payment of contributions for compulsory insurance on the day of submission of the application. This is what I mean about that car, that's what needs to be thrown out, because as we're on our way soon, one tank of gasoline will cost 18 of the lowest monthly meals. So, what exactly are these articles saying? We can say that someone can even formally own significant assets and will be a beneficiary of the institute, and someone who is naked and barefoot who has received more than 20 lowest monthly meals, it will actually not be able to use free legal aid, because he has a pension of two or two or five hundred thousand kuna, i.e. a salary of two or two thousand five hundred kuna. So someone with an apartment, say, 100 or 200 thousand euros can get that help, and someone with two thousand kunas can turn out not to get that help. Clearly, on the other hand, there may be some logic in this provision, as the horror of these aids is today sought by people returning to the war of the injured areas that are returning primarily from the Republic of Serbia to the area, I don't know, Knina, Clay, etc. These people mean they have property, they have a house, they have land, but they don't have income, they can't make any income. Article 25 speaks of receipts means individual families and then here it is said that they can be supported by the provision of wartime disabilities, benefits that are not taken into account in the sense of this law. So those who are not taken into account are support for the care of the disabled, members of their families, deadly injured, imprisoned, missing, child support and money receipts for the child's equipment, assistance and compensation for persons with disabilities, support for the destruction and damage of property due to elementary disasters, support for destruction and damage to property due to wartime events, compensation that the family receives as a foster family, rights from the welfare system and other forms of assistance, compensation to the parent for the care of the child with severe interference, means of supporting the child according to the rules in family relations, etc. I think this article is more than useful and just welcome. But, as Mr Stanimirovic said earlier, I think that we should reduce and simplify this procedure for coming to a free legal aid team more as much as gro is sought by people who, as I said, returnees return to their hearths after leaving those premises mostly there during or after the immediate end of the war. They're the problem and they need to meet in some way. Article 74 states, among other things, that within three months of the date of entry into force of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will coordinate the internal structure of the Ministry and the City of Zagreb will coordinate the structure of city offices with the provisions of this Act. So, the City of Zagreb will have to establish the Office for Free Legal Assistance, but on the other hand, the state will not commit itself to the City of Zagreb to lower certain money for these needs. The next day, I am more than sure, in such a way they will have to organise or organize all other Croatian counties, and the state will not provide them with the money they want again for these activities. However, while Zagreb will be able to finance it relatively easily from its budget of 7 or more billion kuna, the county that has a hundred or 120 million to 150 million kuna will be a problem for them. It is likely that the government will appeal to the Convention on Local Self-Government that we discussed yesterday. You wanted powers, okay here's your authority but normally it won't follow those new powers that will be transferred to local self-government and financial resources. So, the state should also supply funds to the city of Zagreb, tomorrow to all other counties that will sooner or later join the city of Zagreb and provide free legal assistance. I think it is good to have other counties, not only the city of Zagreb commits to this, why in some ways people who are harder and harder to live. In particular here, I think of nursing households, returnees, and who are clearly not able to achieve a whole series of elementary needs without money, so neither of those in the sphere of some right. So, to end absolutely yes, the IDS club supports the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Associations and that's to say, if I'm not mistaken for 50% of the value of the fees that will be paid higher and higher, they're going to have to give higher guarantees or insurance, they're going to be paid by the state's tariff, they're not going to be paid by the bar. The same will likely apply to the city of Zagreb's conduct by doubting that the city of Zagreb will receive one kuna from the state budget, and this is likely to reflect on other counties later on. It is precisely because of this social material status in which Croatian citizens live precisely because of the fact that the problem of the trial has become more expensive, almost inaccessible to the vast majority of citizens, although someone will say that when we look at how many of these cases have been pending in our courts that I am wrong when I say so, but I believe that the law came at the right time or rather such a law should have been passed far earlier and perhaps we will, through the same way, come to meet that poorest category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8946	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8947	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Let me just briefly remind you why the Club of Representatives of the SDP at first reading of the law was the one who supported the first reading of the law. Many have talked about it here and before me, so I won't exactly repeat it, I'm just going to say maybe two important things, which is that it's clearly a need to meet at least 70,000 citizens who asked for legal help last year and didn't have their means to secure it, so that's not only that it's a key reason, but not just to adapt to the standards of the European Union. During the debate and especially through my presentation on behalf of the club of representatives, the comments were made which were grouped into three points. One point was and referred to the excessive red tape of the procedure because, with the confirmation of the Tax Administration, the so-called tax administration was requested with the request for free legal aid. other documents that are not specified but, as the article now says, I think the 18th final draft of the law, says that the minister will tell the sublegal act what other documents they are. So that there would be no confusion here we continued to insist through the Justice Committee as Mr. Grbić spoke on behalf of the board. Our remarks have now been accepted in the second reading and that I do not know if there are any other instruments if the Government does not meet I have written an amendment in that sense which I hope you will accept since you accepted it on the Committee on Justice. Thus, it enables easier implementation of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. It's very important and I think it's very good that the legislator accepted it. The second thing we warned about, and that's at the point of efficiency. Therefore, and it is good that in that second reading, an even clearer legislator of the law through Article 23 has arranged it in a way that he said that the manual is issued immediately if the parties need it and that the office which the state administration is doing so does not have to do so within a period of fifteen days but that in certain situations where it is necessary to do so immediately. And I think it's a good thing the promoter accepted. And thirdly, it's a good thing he accepted that Mr. Leco said in the debate to shorten the date relating to the application of the law not in 2010 but in 2009. As I recall, it was 2010. So these three things are accepted and it's good that they're accepted, or they'll be accepted, not yet, I hope. So, the final clear need for this law to be passed speaks in favour of the need of a representative club to support the law but still warns and begs the proposing representative or the government to carefully consider amendments to the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities because I think they too can be accepted, amendments by Professor Josipovic, Mr Lesar, and I think that we will then have a much more acceptable law and that then there will be a dozen who have been behind the amendments that are... I sent it to the Parliament procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think if these amendments are accepted, they will be satisfied with their contribution to the draft law. And finally, I hope that the government will closely monitor the application of the law and that those institutes or those proposals that it is not or will not accept in this assembly will correct, so the law will correct when it sees that when the Government sees that some things do not work. And in the end, it is very important to say that the SDP's club advocates that more funds than is foreseen in the reasoning of the law are provided for free legal aid, because it is not free, it is charged because it pays the state but is free for users. Because that free legal so-called. free legal aid is very much to live up to in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8948	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8949	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasants' Club will support the Final Bill on Free Legal Assistance. With several proposals concerning the improvement of this law, especially when it comes to instructions, and when it comes to promotion, that is, banning the promotion that we think is not well defined by this law. What we all agree with is that the Law on Free Legal Assistance is absolutely necessary because the Republic of Croatia today does not have a fully regulated system of providing free legal assistance, certain categories of citizens who are materially at risk who have poor social conditions and who cannot afford legal assistance to the court or in some other proceedings themselves. Of course, through the positive legal regulations, certain legal aid segments are today defined by the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Procedural Procedure, the Law on the Resolution of So, Conflict, Laws with the Regulations of Other Countries in Certain Relations, and the Law on Lawyership. The provision of legal assistance in civil matters in one narrow segment is governed by the Law on Attorneyship, but this applies only to citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which means that this Law does not cover the provision of legal assistance to foreign citizens and those when they come to the Republic of Croatia cannot, by law, achieve free legal assistance. It is therefore necessary to find other organisational forms in that part of the NGO for a number of years, to provide free legal assistance and especially in those areas affected by the war, therefore in areas of special state concern. Of course, there are a number of gaps, legal gaps that need to be resolved and all in favour of exactly the citizens to be given access to the court, in an adequate manner, whether they have enough financial resources or not. Human Rights Associations have recognised this need and I must thank them from this place and commend them because they really had to find different ways to ensure adequate lawyers or lawyers and we know that their tariffs are quite expensive in order to put them in the service of citizens who need help. According to the association data, the annual number of legal aid cases is moving around 70,000 but not evenly provided in the territory of Croatia, but as we could already hear only in areas of special state concern. According to Croatian bar data, the average number of cases in which legal aid was provided ranged from 300 to 500 per year, which is quite insufficient. According to the 2004 Courts, in 1324 cases there is a mandatory representation of the parties from which 420 relate to civil cases, while 3148 cases so many cases are parties' exemption from payment of court costs. In 1879 criminal cases, a defendant was appointed under official duty. Of course, these numbers are quite indicative because there was no monitoring system which would be resolved by completing the project of management of cases in courts and by establishing a single information system within which more accurate data would be available, of course. Given the considerable number of beneficiaries of legal assistance by associations, and the continued need for such form of legal assistance to exist by building up the system and allowing associations to provide only certain forms of legal assistance to this law in a way would legalise the existing situation and enable associations to carry out their activities legally. In relation to legal clinics, it is a long and wide-ranging practice in the world whose beginnings already exist at the law schools in the Republic of Croatia, and this Law would also contribute to the educational programme of legal studies. When the law is passed, it is, of course, necessary to take account of the acquis of the European Union, international legal standards, recommendations contained in international contracts and the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights. The legal arrangement of the area of legal assistance to citizens therefore falls under one of the obligations set out in the National Programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Also in the report of experts from the European Commission who were in the Republic of Croatia with the aim of assessing the situation in the judiciary. One of the recommendations was also to establish the free legal assistance mechanism. We expect that solutions to this law will allow consistent application, above all, of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the right to access the court and guarantees equality of all citizens before the court. It also provides for the right to provide legal assistance to all natural persons located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as foreigners and Croatian citizens who are constantly resident abroad and who are before the Croatian Court of Justice in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights' rulings. This law also prescribes criteria that an individual should meet in order to achieve legal assistance in full and in part and of course depending on the property situation. In addition, the draft law provides for lawyers, associations and colleges as entities capable of providing legal assistance, defining the forms of legal assistance that some of these entities can provide, thereby adopting common practice in most European Union countries. What may be the most significant is that citizens whose property is so bad that it does not allow them to engage lawyers and obtain legal assistance in some way ensure equal access to judicial and administrative procedures and, in addition to existing laws, create a complete system of legal assistance without discrimination regarding the property of an individual. What is particularly important is that we are constantly talking about judicial reform and that we are constantly faced with remarks on the effectiveness of courts, this law will allow for more effective work by courts and other competent authorities to be done in order to better prepare procedures and professional representation and timely information and legal advice to citizens should reduce the number of procedures that are initiated due to the lack of knowledge of the party's rights and obligations and the possibility of success. A system of supervision of the expertise of the legal assistance provided and mechanisms for sanctioning unprofessional and unconscious treatment as well as specialised bodies for the approval of legal assistance will also be established. This whole implementation of course must be supported by a series of activities and, above all, we believe that there is a key establishment of an information system, but also the education of officials and information to the public about their rights. We also significantly assess that the law will enter into force on 1 April 2009. If we look at Article 9 then it is visible in Article 9 that there is a ban on the promotion or illicit promotion and it is not clear what it is illegal to promote, and on the other hand, we must ask ourselves how associations will inform potential useful, users of the possibility of providing legal assistance if they are disabled. In addition, when it comes to instructions, consideration should be given to the removal of the primary legal aid manual for those forms of legal assistance which can be done by associations, and the manual should only be provided for secondary legal assistance. The fact is that the manual represents a certain mechanism of control of the work of the legal aid provider not only of the user, but also of the fact that the follow-up of the instructions for each level of procedure may put the user in an unsolicited position that, in the short run, the necessary documents should be collected for the issue of the manual without being able to do so. As a result, we believe that the solution can only be a well-organised information system in which the user would probably not need to be re-recorded once and once it enters it through all levels, and thus it would not be necessary to issue the manual multiple times. Of course, this whole system costs and it's 23 million kunas invested in developing a free legal aid system, so in that sense, of course, we understand also the proposer who wants to develop a system of control of the spending of that money, but we think that if we want to have adequate legal aid, we should not further complicate it because with these requirements for issuing instructions, especially for primary legal aid, we are afraid that free legal aid might happen not always be available and that someone may be denied. In addition to these remarks and the proposals put forward by the Club of Representatives of the HSS, it will support the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8950	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8951	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Fifteen years after the abolition of the free legal aid that citizens could receive in municipal courts, a law is being drafted that will allow the poor again according to the plan in two years. Today, free representation of the poor can be obtained in the Croatian bar that "pro bono" acts according to its own criteria and in the year is about three hundred. There is a legal safeguard system and free access to the justice system are essential preconditions for effective exercise of the rights of individuals or for the engagement of a state apparatus to the user also sets out financial requirements in terms of the obligation to pay the costs of the procedure. In order to avoid only those who have financial resources being able to launch and manage legal systems and offer assistance to poor citizens in cost-covering procedures. The right to free legal assistance today is increasingly recognised as an essential component of one of the essential rights, the right to access justice. It is protected in documents from international organisations, the Council of Europe and the European Union. Besides, anyone who can't pay for a lawyer if he's being prosecuted has the right to an attorney under the official duty paid by the state. The third is the possibility and legal advice given by civil society, and trade unions do so for their members. However, the legal aid provided by the State and for civil matters, such as divorce, alimony, and the like, is now missing. According to a proposal made by the Ministry of Justice, Croatia would receive a new type of instruction except for those for treatment. With the help of the instructions issued by the Office of State Administration in County, citizens could receive free assistance from lawyers, legal advice from civil associations and mentioning also the students of law schools involved in the so-called “Students”. Legal clinics to assist with the help of professors. But for now, such a clinic exists only in Rijeka. According to a government-set fee and services would be provided, these services would be paid by the state. All this could cost the state a lot of money. According to the first estimates, it will take between €5 million and €10 million for a minimum start. Croatia stands out EUR 7 per capita for this, which means around EUR 30 million and Belgium alone for civil litigation, as well as EUR 30 million. Perhaps someone will be distracted by the fact that most of this new cost of the Treasury will be poured into the lawyer’s pockets because many will most certainly choose a lawyer with the manual. In addition to the proposal for a way to determine the legal tariffs that the Ministry and the Bar of Lawyers disputed, a stumbling block could also be free legal aid. The Bar Association has now called on associations not to engage in giving free legal aid. For free legal aid, or its availability, the Ombudsman also has continued to warn. The unions also have their objections to the law, which propose property censorships to determine who can receive help. The association's data indicate that they provided free legal aid annually in about 70,000 cases most often in areas of special state concern. According to Croatian bar data, lawyers represented the citizens free of charge in 300 to 500 cases annually, and data from courts say that in less than 2,000 cases each year they appointed a defender by official duty free of charge for the party. However, the need to systematically regulate the area was imposed. For a long time, associations have been pushing the authorities to pass laws that would finally regulate the right to free legal aid. Lawmakers themselves admit that since the early 1990s, there have been holes in the area because they have then abolished the so-called so-called courts. office days when judges gave citizens free legal advice. However, although since the start of the process of drafting this law of the association, citizens, trade unions and other interested parties have persistently submitted their proposals to improve this text, the applicant has not yet appreciated all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8952	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to stress that this law is very important in my opinion because part of Croatia's citizens brings certain rights or rights. When it comes to such regulations as the first newspaper in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, which directly concerns the interests of part of the citizens in this case of that part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who is poor, I think it would be extremely useful for the Minister to inform about this new regulation, about the new law concerning the part of the Croatian or the Ministry of State, or to entrust some of the NGOs, or associations. Because that part of citizens does not read and follow the "National Journal" to be sufficiently informed about the conditions, the way in which this right is exercised. So it's not enough to pass a regulation that gives citizens the right, because citizens who don't know their rights can't even use it. So, at the beginning of an informative campaign, later systematic information about it is very important and important to me. If and if no means are provided for, it is likely that you will find opportunities to actually make one of these informative steps in this regard. I have to admit that I love this situation when fellow MPs are disturbing government representatives during the debate, so I'm going to be a little patient right now. Thank you, dear colleague. Thank you. The second thing I want to point out is Article 5(2) of the proposed final draft law, and here I have given a very short amendment where I propose that, in the definition of issues that would fall within the scope of this law for the exercise of the right to free legal aid other than status issues and issues from the welfare system, we also add rights from pension and disability insurance. Because even by the number of cases that end up with the attorney general, the courts and all other law enforcement institutions, that number is always too significant, too large to be left out of this law, especially because of the fact that it's a group of older citizens, so those who retire. In the case of disabled persons, it is especially a sensitive group of citizens, and I think it would be extremely useful if the Government accepted that amendment and, therefore, pension and disability insurance or insurance rights under Article 2(2) of Article 5(5). That would certainly make it easier for me to vote on this bill. So, the specific two groups that aren't so far if I read article 5 well in... Finally, the third point relates to Article 8 which lays down the conditions which a potential beneficiary of free legal aid must, if I am not mistaken, be fulfilled cumulatively in accordance with point (a), (b), (c) and (d), in order to exercise the right to free legal assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if I understand all four conditions correctly, they must be met for it. Therefore, the first condition is that property in monetary form of household members does not exceed 20 lowest bases. At this point, these 20 lowest bases are 48825 kuna. And this provision is clear. So it's about money, any savings, bills, cash, socks or anything else. However, point (b) uses the term owns the property and is now required to return to Article 3 which explains certain terms and reads what is written under the property in Article 3. I fear that this argument of this property is not clear enough or will lead to different interpretations in terms of what is truly considered a moving and immovable property whose value is accounted for under this provision. That provision also contains or gives the value of 20 lowest bases, so 48825 kuna at the moment. So, for example, is that the concept of the property being used by washing machines, glaciers, television receivers, computers? It's all moving property. Land immovable property. Either, therefore, more clearly specify in Article 3 or allow more freedom to the offices of the state administration in the counties on the definition of the property from the application, i.e. the questionnaire with the request, to be taken into account. The third condition is the area of the apartment defined for a male of 35 square metres and for each further member of the household of 10 square meters. This means that a three-member family would be entitled to about 55 square feet of apartment and that's quite clearly prescribed. And the fourth condition is when income, i.e. the total income of this household per head, does not cross one base, a minimum base. At this point it is 2441 kuna per month in gross amount. What may appear to be controversial in the application of the law, I have not found an adequate solution to offer it through amendments, but I warn of this possibility. Let's just say that it's a dispute when a citizen asks for free legal aid in seeking, say, three years back, severances when he quits. Or in the search for property, of any kind, which can theoretically be five times larger than that of the census referred to in point (a) and (b). That no one later after the exercise of that right and the exercise of the right with free legal aid from that citizen is asking for reimbursement of the costs, because in the meantime, property acquired under this legal procedure is greater than those censorships prescribed here, if you understand me. Therefore, there is no provision in the law that the property that will be acquired in the legal procedure, which the citizen used as free legal aid, does not count on the property as a censorship. We are masters in the application of the rules, whether such a provision is necessary or not, but I warn of such a possibility that the property can be small, medium, but also large and that it is not retroactively required by the state of that difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8954	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8955	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The debate itself in this second reading also shows the interest of debate, shows that the law and the proposal of the law has met most of the requirements put forward before the introduction of this institute of free legal aid for all those who cannot afford it because of their material opportunities and sufficient quality legal assistance, although so far it has been prescribed in several laws and some institutes have been known from criminal proceedings through compulsory defence rights, i.e. in the case of arrest, in the case of search of the apartment, in the case of pre-trial proceedings, in the case of detention, etc. the litigation procedure in the discharges from the payment of expenses and court fees, as well as the Law on Attorneyship. The aim of this law is always difficult to say fully, but it is achieved in those frameworks in which it is drawn, which is that justice becomes available to everyone, regardless of the property situation and regardless of its legal knowledge and availability of judicial protection. Of course, this law, and I would just like to say a few words about it because more or less everything else is said, it has introduced protection institutes against the abuse of the use of this institute in a way that is even losing the right to an instruction in case the litigation is conducted, and often it happens at least in my neighboring area of awareness, so because they say experts in a way that they try to prove through the institution of legal order that you are right, no matter how many times you admit it. And it's also introduced that based on that, the office can withdraw the manual. I have already mentioned, but once again I will mention that the Institute has always been in danger of being abused in a way that is used by one who, by materially giving and income, had no right to do so, so we could say that it is okay and in the way that it is introduced to limit this right to those who receive social assistance, who receive supplies, and then to those who have certain incomes to the amount and real estate to a certain area in terms of housing. However, it would also be, I suppose, well placed enough not to have those cases where families sometimes try to transfer a member and his defence to the burden of society just because they prove that this is a pedagogical method that young people should normally learn by themselves, and thus transfer the defence burden from their own, financial defenses to their families, that a large budget to the state budget without a specific need. Of course, there is always legal assistance in administrative procedures in which, once again, I would like to highlight it is quite important to inform, for example, any potential beneficiary of any of the rights introduced by this Assembly, so I would like to point out that through the incentives in agriculture, there is little benefit from the Institute of Income Support in the event that those who do not know or are on the way to arrival and income support is too long, therefore it is for persons who are according to the laws of this Assembly only because they have the property and because they are no longer able to pay for the economic economy of land, they have the right to supplement and thus to a certain age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8956	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8957	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Although it has already been said on several occasions and more than once, it is not to say once again that this law will allow the Republic of Croatia to have a fully regulated system of legal assistance to certain categories of citizens who, due to their material and social conditions, cannot achieve this right, i.e. without discrimination in view of the property situation. The use of legal aid under the provisions of this law will be authorised in all proceedings before courts, administrative authorities and legal entities with public authority, so if they are resolved on existential issues of users. existential issues are rights from the social care system, labour law, protection of children and young adults, protection of victims of criminal acts, victims of trafficking in human beings, domestic violence, exiles, refugees, returnees, etc. So especially vulnerable groups and difficult, of course, life situations in which citizens can find themselves as well as a circle of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War and, of course, when they meet the prescribed criteria for free legal assistance. It is also important to say that this law makes it possible to exempt from the costs of the procedure for foreigners residing in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. Legal aid governed by this law shall be provided in whole or in part with the financial support of the State, and in the first place it shall come from the fact that it is the right to equality of all before the law and shall not have any damage to the necessary maintenance of itself and members of its family. The possibility of a user depending on his material opportunities and bearing himself a certain part of the cost of the procedure with the intention to ensure that the full scope of this right is indeed guaranteed to those persons who are in no other way able to exercise their right. It also ensures the responsibility of the applicant himself not only to conduct the proceedings but also to seek a peaceful settlement of the dispute, and this insistence is highly positively assessed by the Council of Europe, which will certainly reduce the number of court proceedings. This right should also be said is not permanent and can only be achieved during the duration of the conditions for its implementation. It should also be said that this law fills the gap resulting from the abolition of administrative days in municipal courts that occurred in the 1990s when citizens addressed their legal issues, i.e. where they received legal advice, so that, in this way, the addition of this system ensures equality of all before the law and access to the court regardless of nationality and on material and social opportunities, as well as the right to fair trial, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on Human Rights. This law will also allow for more effective work not only by courts but also by other bodies, and a smaller number of procedures are expected to be launched for the sake of how the parties' ignorance about rights and obligations as well as the possibilities of failure in a particular legal matter. A system of supervision of the expertise in providing legal assistance and sanctioning mechanisms for unprofessional and unconscious treatment in providing free legal assistance will also be established. The application of this law is foreseen as of 1 April 2009, so the maximum deadlines required for citizens to be able to consume this significant right as soon as possible, and until then it is necessary to establish organisational, informational, humane assumptions and carry out the necessary training of personnel. In passing this important law, here I will gladly accept this proposal in his second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8958	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. At 11.56, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8959	Well, here's my debate is going to be very brief because I'd just like to explain two amendments, so I'd like you to think about them until the second reading, or until Friday's vote. I have taken over these two amendments from the Ombudsman for children, and I believe that for many reasons she intervened in two articles. It should therefore be added in Article 7 to the new paragraph 4 that it should also include children who, therefore, are found in the Republic of Croatia without parental or legal representation. So children are definitely the most vulnerable group when they find themselves in a position to be illegal, or unlawfully found in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It would be good if they too had the right to free legal aid. Well, I don't think there is, so the category of foreigners' children to be classified in this article 7 with one new sentence. The second amendment is also to Article 8 where a new item should also be added to ensure free legal assistance, so for all children whose parents do not pay for the maintenance, so regardless of their material incomes. In fact, I will remind you that in 2006, the Ombudsman reached an agreement with the legal chamber on the free representation of parents who therefore go into the process or therefore collect alimony or seek to increase the amount of alimony, so she agreed with the bar free representation of such parents regardless of their material condition. In 2007, there were about 820 such requirements, so it is already in some way one of the standards that we have achieved, so it would be good that we do not go under it but simply keep that standard, so it would be good for people who primarily benefit from children whose parents are fighting for their rights, and that is the right to have other parents who do not live with them still pay for maintenance. So here's the explanation I'm asking you to think about it by Friday and ask you to adopt these amendments for the benefit of children first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8960	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I think there's one part of the debate I was talking about when I first read it. Why do I think that? In fact, the Law on Free Legal Assistance is part or package of laws that the Republic of Croatia has committed to adopt in order to comply with its legislation with the legislation of the European Union's countries in the field of protection of human rights. Such a need for law in Croatia, apart from the obligations we have made towards the European Union and harmonisation, exists for social reasons, because there has been such a need for it for 10 years. In fact, human rights are agreed on by international standards that recognise and protect the dignity and integrity of every human and individual regardless of all possible differences. So access to court and protection of rights is one of the human rights that protects international acts, our Constitution, etc. Does this law ensure that it is declared? I'd say there's a people's wisdom, about like this: "God give your daughter to marry you, but the bums are coming to beg you.". That's the way it is with this law. Why? Well, there remained a very low property censorship, and this law will really serve, only homeless people can serve. Secondly, the law itself says that no material means will be provided to pay for free legal aid by the end of 12 months 2009. If this is further added, and that sublegal acts must be adopted that will regulate matter and allow for free legal aid to be used, I can say with great certainty and responsibility that such aid will not be used in the following year. So, neither in this year nor in the following year, and there has already been 10 years of commitment of essential societies and obligations for 4 years towards the European Union. But that's not all, either. If the text of the law is read more carefully, I have already said that the problem of property censorship is rigorous, and then a colleague on behalf of the club said that administrative "rasamon" is such that it will be difficult to achieve that as well. But there are other details that are complicated. For example, Article 3 states that members of the household, who it is, have to live together in an apartment or house, so they must live together and have to bear the common costs of the household. In Article 25, there is no way they can live together. So it's about household as an economic category. Of course, the economic category doesn't mean that you all live in the same apartment, same house, but you have a common economic account. It's a common case, people leave and support their parents, etc., etc. When it comes to associations, Article 11 states that the association must not refuse legal aid if it is already registered for legal aid. Article 13 also provides for trade unions because trade unions provide legal assistance under the conditions laid down for authorised associations. OK, but in that same article, the unions are providing legal assistance independently of the provisions of this law. That's the opposite. But imagine the circumstance that a union of one is providing legal assistance to someone who is not a member of that union, and sues his member, regardless of who they are. If he cannot refuse to provide legal assistance, it is a classic example of conflict, regardless of what is in the institution. So, I think it continues with the government's practice to bring Croatian legislation in line with EU legislation, with EU countries, acquis communiareo in formal and legal terms, rather than essentially. If we were to be the most generous then I think it was necessary to provide for free legal assistance, at least for this primary as it is said here, that an institution that is not dependent on nor the instructions, nor how I would say to the fund for such an opportunity, simply that it is the duty of a state institution. This would certainly reduce the number of cases of unnecessary trial because people could get initial information about their dispute, about their need in an appropriate place. This is nothing new and the Administrative Procedure Act teaches administrative references that they are obliged to help clients, parties, without reducing their independence and responsibility when they make a decision. Unfortunately, this law is better than having any, so I'll get back to square one. God forbid he solves the problem essentially, but I'm sure he won't get 10%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8962	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8963	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I will try very briefly to say that first of all I support the proposal, the final draft law on free legal aid. I think this is one step forward, a step in the context of the availability of legal protection for all, especially the category of citizens whose property status does not allow for the equality of all before the court. I certainly think that this law will also contribute to the dispensation of courts, for the reason that one part, to say, can be settled in a non-judicial manner or through a settlement, out-of-court settlements, and that is another reason why it is worth supporting and passing such a law. What I want to say is certainly in the context of the property censorship I think he is in that part restrictive and I believe that the part can be considered, the property censorship is corrected to make protection available to as many citizens who, normally, are unable or do not have the means to pay for legal services and the like. Also, I think it is worth further working on the procedure itself and the more simple it is for the team the more we know that, or as proposed in the bill, the application of that law begins from 1. 4. In 2009. And finally, in some ways, I can't help but think that since 1990 we haven't had such a law in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that, in those initial years, part of the legal aid was provided by courts, part of it was provided through the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Prosecution. But knowing that both the Hague Convention and the Convention on Human Rights are documents that have bound us before and that it is time to say so since the '90s. so by 2008, I would say one legal gap, just as the category of citizens who were such an asset could not achieve the right to free legal assistance, and we know that it was also the time of conversion and the time of privatisation and the time of violation of both labour and pension and other civil rights. Here, I welcome that in some way the European conventions have led us to adopt these high standards in the protection of human rights through this kind of law on the provision of free legal assistance with my wish and intensification that both in terms of property censorship and in terms of procedures to simplify or as regards property censorship, I am correcting the property censorship in the direction of covering as many citizens as possible. I support the context of the proposal of the final law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8964	Thank you. Final review by Justice Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8965	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After this debate in the second reading, I thank all who have actively joined, particularly those who have proposed amendments, there is one set of amendments. We will show ourselves about them and can already say that we will surely accept all those amendments that contribute to speed up the procedure and strengthen the availability of legal assistance and thus the judiciary of all Croatian citizens regardless of their social and property status but also on the other hand that we must pay attention to the rational use of budget money, Croatian taxpayers' money and to the prevention of abuse precisely in order to prevent those who need it most. What I can say is that even so far it should be kept in mind that the adoption of this law is, in fact, the free legal assistance system in Croatia is being rounded up, that budget resources have been allocated to these purposes, primarily in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, the Law on Asylum, where some amounts have already been financed for the provision, association and lawyers to provide free legal assistance as well as under the Law on Criminal Procedure where the defence has been secured under official duty. What should be said is that this law has provided an asset censorship. In fact, the resources envisaged to be allocated are essentially and detached from the budget in the upper limit, which separate the transition countries within the European Union. Of course, they are not at the top of the border given the possibilities of the Croatian budget. And let's just say that this law does not provide legal assistance to the lowlifes only, we provide it to families, four-member families who have monthly income of 7 thousand and 200 kuna which is certainly not homeless status, we provide families with four-members who own an apartment or a house of up to 65 square metres, which is an average and good average for the Republic of Croatia and we provide families that have no savings and no cash assets of more than 50 thousand kuna and own a car worth more than 48 thousand kuna. So it certainly is about families and citizens who are hard to raise money for legal protection and will therefore be subsidized by the state but are certainly not about homeless and lowlifes. Thank you very much. We will be clear about the amendments and I repeat we will accept all those who contribute to the acceleration of the procedure, the simplification of the procedure and the availability of the judiciary to Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8966	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8967	Final proposal of the Law on free legal aid, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 27. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments submitted is divided into benches. I ask the motionary's representative to appear, State Secretary Drazen Bošnjakovic, and we begin in a row. Legislative Committee, First Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8968	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8969	The amendment is accepted. In the meantime, on behalf of the club, Mr...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8970	Mr. President, I suggest we vote for amendments manually for speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8971	Thank you. Let's move on. So we'll vote by raising our hands. Legislative Committee, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8972	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8973	It's becoming an integral part. Representative Furio Radin, third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8974	We do not accept the amendment, because this amendment is not accepted for reasons why a minor can establish a working relationship at 15 years of age and has his income. The possibility of abuse is also opened in a way that artificially creates conditions for achieving free legal assistance, and otherwise we protect children and accept the following amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8975	Mr. Representative Furio Radin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8976	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8977	Who is for this amendment that the government does not normally accept, please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4, MP Mr Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8978	The amendment is not accepted. The primary legal aid includes significant aspects of legal assistance that will benefit a greater number of citizens and the abolition of primary legal assistance instructions would significantly undermine the system that is being set up by this law. One of the following amendments is adopted, allowing and directly applying for legal aid without instructions, but with an additional explanation of the spending of State budget resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8979	Mr. Representative's gone, so we'll vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also an amendment by MP Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8980	Amendment 5 is not accepted. The primary aid does not cover representation in any court proceedings. Associations do not have to engage a person with a judicial examination to provide legal assistance, but it can, when it comes to associations, be a person with a state-owned professional exam, so we estimate that this is not a sufficient qualification for quality legal assistance in complex procedures such as procedures before the Constitutional Court. As regards the procedures for direct protection under the primary aid, it is not excluded to provide legal assistance if it is not a judicial procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8981	There is no Mr. Representative Josipovic. Let's vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8982	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8983	It becomes an integral part of the law. 7, MP Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8984	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8985	He accepts. It's becoming an integral part. Legislative Committee, eight. We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8988	We accept the amendment of the representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8989	10, Dr. Furia Radina.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8990	We just accepted the same one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8991	So he's accepted, consummated. Thank you. 11, MP Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8992	And we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8993	12, Agent Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8994	This amendment was adopted in accepting this previous amendment. It's been consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8995	Okay. 13, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8996	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8997	14, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8998	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u8999	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9000	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9001	It's becoming an integral part. 16, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9002	We do not accept, because we accept Amendment 21 which is the same content but nomotechnical expression is different and more quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9003	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9004	If you look closely at the amendments you will see that they are not the same, they are the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities is far more content and different from the amendments that we will accept afterwards and therefore we will vote for this amendment, it will fall, but everyone knows that this amendment is better than the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9005	Thank you. I am voting on this amendment which is otherwise not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17, representative of Mr. Live Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9006	The amendment is not accepted. The creation of written documents in court proceedings is part of secondary legal aid and an integral part of a court procedure in which persons can participate in accordance with the Law on litigation and the Law on Attorneyship. Nor do other primary legal aid providers under the provisions of this law have the right to produce written documents in court proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9007	Thank you. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18, HDZ Representatives' Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9008	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9009	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 19, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9010	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9011	It's becoming an integral part. 20, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9012	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9013	It becomes an integral part of the law. 21, HDZ Representatives' Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9014	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9015	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22, Agent Boris Spremo?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9016	We do not accept, because we have accepted most of the content that the MP proposes by this amendment. We actually accept the amendments before, release the party of any contribution to the certificate, actually completely free up space, the party comes, fills the request, signs the property statement, signs a statement that it is consensual that it means checking its property data and in fact releases any obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9017	Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9018	I must say, first of all, that I am surprised by Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Government, that this amendment has not been accepted, the more the fact that it is on the Committee on Justice where I am a member, the representative of the promoter said that he accepts the remark that has been translated into the amendment. But it's literally like that. I cannot understand why one of the Crucial Amendments relating to the fact that one who needs free legal aid paid otherwise by the State in the budget, with a request for free legal assistance, is attached to all possible other documents for which the proponent said nothing else but tax administration paper. So, the legislator himself wrote one thing in his explanation, to write in the very text of the proposal, the final proposal, the other. I'm really surprised and I can't believe it happened. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Ask for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9019	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Legislative Committee, 23?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9020	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9021	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9022	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9023	It becomes an integral part of the law. 25, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9024	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9025	It becomes an integral part of the law. Legislative Committee, 26?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9026	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9027	It becomes an integral part of the law. The Legislative Committee, 27 please?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9028	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9029	It's becoming an integral part. 28, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9030	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9031	It becomes an integral part of the law. 29, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9032	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9033	It becomes an integral part of this law. 30, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9034	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9035	It becomes an integral part of the law. 31, the HDZ Representative Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9036	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9037	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part. 32, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9038	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9039	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. 33, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9040	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9041	It becomes an integral part of the law. 34, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9042	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9043	It becomes an integral part of the law. 36, Agent Emil Tomljanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9044	It's 35, we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9045	It's becoming an integral part. And the HDZ counseling club, 36?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9046	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9047	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. So, I put the law on free legal aid to the vote with all the amendments that have been accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Here's the score. The law was passed with most votes, 107 for and 2 abstentions. The Legislative Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to edit the text of this law before its publication in the National Journal. Let us vote in favour of the Committee's proposal. Let's get involved and vote please. Score. The conclusion was voted unanimously by 109 MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9048	- Proposal for a river transport development strategy in the Republic of Croatia (2008-2018) The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of Article 242. Laws on sailing and ports of internal waters. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by Committees on Development and Reconstruction, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by MPs Mirela Holy, joint representatives Mirela Holy, Ivica Pančić and Vlatko Podnar. Representative of the motion State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Branko Bačić. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9049	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Parliament the adoption of a River Transport Development Strategy. The reasons for the adoption of this strategy lie in the fact that it is necessary to improve river transport in the Republic of Croatia because at the moment it is not at an enviable level on the one hand and because of the fact that the Law on navigation and the ports of internal waters of the Republic of Croatia has declared the waterways and ports of internal waters as areas of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia. Also, the reason for this strategy lies in the fact that by adopting this same Law on Navigation and the ports of internal waters, we have prescribed in Article 3 that the Croatian Parliament will adopt a strategy for the development of river transport. The third very important reason for the adoption of the strategy is to meet the implementation of the national programme of EU accession to the European Union, which we have committed ourselves to implement the settings of the European Action Plan for River Transport called NAJARDES and through which the European Commission's strategic document is practically built and implemented our River Transport Development Strategy. In this context, I can say that our Strategy for the Development of River Transport is almost fully formed and designed according to this European strategic framework for the development of European river transport. Furthermore, we believe that the strategy for the development of river transport is a key strategic document that is important for the development of internal navigation, which is the same as our strategy is the basis for the development of medium-term waterway development plans and ports on internal waters, which is also foreseen by the Law on Navigation and the ports of internal waters, but I will say more about this later. Before I say a few words about the strategy itself, I would like to display in the shortest lines the state and characteristics of river transport today in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that at this point in the Republic of Croatia, there is only 1.5% of comprehensive transport in the Republic of Croatia and that we are not satisfied with this fact. In fact, in the European Union, river transport participates from somewhere around 6% to 24% of total traffic. So, therefore, it is, and it is said enough from that data itself, that enough is enough in itself to say how and how we can improve river transport in the Republic of Croatia, thus making the waterways in the Republic of Croatia more and more possible for further development of river transport. Furthermore, river transport and above all ports on rivers in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, firstly ports of national importance such as Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek and Vukovar, characterizes insufficient supply of port infrared and superstructure. However, it is clear that it is not, which is not enough, that ports are not sufficiently equipped with neither port infrared nor port superstructure, yet the growth of traffic in certain ports is slowly recorded. The fact is that it was the waterways and waterway ports in the Republic of Croatia that were the areas most affected by the Homeland War, so it was clear that even because of the Homeland War, because of the aggression in the Republic of Croatia, it was not possible to carry out river transport, and that resulted in lagging and internal waterways and also port infrastructures. When we talk about river transport, we should certainly mention that river transport is one of the most economical and environmentally acceptable modes of transport. According to one study done by the European Commission, the transport distance for a ton of cargo to the average energy consumption for inland vessels is 370 kilometers while for the railway is 300 kilometers and for road traffic that distance is 100 kilometers. Therefore, it is clear from this information how economically justified the internal river, internal, or river transport is, and how systematically it is necessary to approach its improvement. In addition to the economic and eco-acceptability of waterway goods transport, it is important to secure navigation and connect the network of waterways of the Republic of Croatia with the unique water system Rajna-Majna-Dunav. Therefore, by respecting all these facts, therefore, the need for the development of river transport as well as our legal obligations, we set out in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to develop a comprehensive strategy for the transport development of the Republic of Croatia, which we partly based on the existing strategy of traffic development, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives in 1999. Since then, almost 10 years have passed and practically the existing strategy is no longer an incentive for further development of river transport, so it was necessary to define a strategic development of river transport with new development potential. So, as I said, the strategy we propose was done in accordance with the European River Transport Action Plan and is thus also conceptual. The long-term goal is to integrate the waterway network as part of the Podunavlje-Jadran combined river corridor. The strategy, as a strategic document, is the basis for the adoption of medium-term plans for the development of military roads and ports of internal waters, as provided for in Article 103. Laws on sailing and ports of internal waters. And we in the Government of the Republic of Croatia have already made these two strategic documents, and in these plans we have signed exactly what measures, activities, deadlines to go on, therefore, in the further development of waterways and ports in internal waters. The primary objectives to be achieved by adopting a strategy are the establishment of a balance in the development of different modes of transport, the uniform exploitation of all transport resources, the freedom of the market, the unification of regulations and standards, coordinated and sustainable development, and all of which are based on six essential principles that are involved and through which such policies will be implemented against internal waterways or inland ports. One of the most important principles of transport policy certainly refers to the safety of navigation and environmental protection. In this segment, therefore, we are developing a river information system, which will contribute significantly to the safety of navigation and quality of navigation, in which at any moment we will know the real situation on the inland waterways and rivers, taking into account the exchange of information to passengers, cargo and crews, ships and all that is essential for the management of river transport. Furthermore, river transport needs to be integrated into transport chains and made it more attractive for those entities involved in planning and transport logistics. It is, of course, possible, if all the states involved in the system... apply similar concepts also in the part which is therefore related to the safety of navigation and to the establishment of a river information system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the market then, according to the European Commission's projections, the growth of river transport is planned over the next 10 years from 7% and some of the most optimistic estimates speak about river transport growth up to 20%. We in the Republic of Croatia in order to respond to such a request need to fully integrate the entire river system, therefore, all waterways on internal waters and, in this sense, in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we are approaching the construction of the Danube-Sava water channel to achieve this integration of network, waterways in the Republic of Croatia. And thus clearly to create the independence of Croatian inland waterways in relation to third countries. It is also important to point out that the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel, as well as the attractiveness of the area around it, must be important, one of the conditions, clearly and clearly the reasons for the channels, and that it would prove its justification is also the need to modernise the ports on the inland waterways, which is also highlighted in the strategy, and to provide sufficient space for the construction of economic zones that would rest on the canal itself and on the ports on the inland waterways. When we talk about river shipping, which is also one of the most important principles in the development of our strategy, I would like to say a few information on the current state of river shipping. At this point, Croatia's river shipping has 57 ships with a total capacity of 44 thousand tonnes, with an average age of approximately 40 years. Clearly, therefore, the fleet is small, that the fleet is obsolete and that it cannot meet the internal requirements, before the development of internal navigation, so in this sense in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and through the strategy, we have cited those data, that is, those measures that we will implement in accordance with European directives when it comes to encouraging shipowners, i.e. to encourage shipping in the Republic of Croatia. One of the important segments of the development of shipbuilding is certainly a lack of quality boating, boating activities, and in this regard we have launched a procedure in order to start, together with maritime schools in the Republic of Croatia and these maritime schools primarily in Bakr and with the Faculty of Transport in Zagreb, into a better education of boating activities. So as I said, the overall strategy is based on the European action plan, and in this sense we have not even listed the financial data that would result from the implementation of the strategy itself. We will go through further proceedings and this is the adoption of a five-year programme for the development of ports and inland waterways to show how and how we see further development of internal and river transport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, we intend to invest in the financing of the construction of port infra and superstructures in the ports of Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Sisak and according to master plans or adopted plans for the construction and arrangement of these ports is intended to invest around EUR 116 million in the area of these ports for the next 5 years while building or maintaining internal waterways somewhere around EUR 126 million. So the total investment over the next 5 years, which will be detailed and shown by the five-year plan for the development of inland waterways or river ports, would be around a billion and 765 million kuna. Clearly, not including the cost of construction of the Danube-Sava channel whose estimated value is and which will show very quickly the spatial plan that will be spoken of in this Assembly, its price would be around 5 billion kuna and 500 thousand kuna. Thus, by building ports, building and editing, maintaining inland waterways, with particular concern for river shipping as an integral part of river or inland waterway transport, we believe that it is possible to respond in quality to the challenges facing the Republic of Croatia as a Danube state, as a country that has quality preconditions for the development of river transport can be answered in quality. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9050	Thank you. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9051	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure at the 6th session discussed the proposal for a strategy for the development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia, and at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered the proposal for a strategy for the development of river transport as a parent working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the promoters who pointed out that the river transport strategy contributes to the implementation of the European River Transport Action Plan and is focused on 6 main areas of action; safety of navigation, environmental protection, market, infrastructure, shipbuilding and education together with promotion and administrative capacity. River transport should be integrated into an intermodal and transport network in order to strengthen its role in the market as the most environmentally acceptable mode of transport. In order to integrate river transport into an intermodal transport network, it is important to achieve a level of reliability and efficiency of internal navigation through quality transport infrastructure assurance. The ports must also transport to the main road and rail corridors in order to achieve better integration with the economic backdrop and create conditions for the development of intermodal transport. The promoter also stressed that the conventional navigation safety system places its place on the pan-European navigation control and traffic management system based on the introduction of river information services and that operational management of the new system is foreseen within the national centre. In the Committee's discussion itself, the opinion was expressed that this document would provide a better name for an action plan on the basis of which a strategy should be drawn up to specify in detail the dynamics or deadlines for the implementation of established plans and projects, the financial resources needed to implement them, and that the State should determine how much will be allocated to the projects indicated. The importance of investment in waterways, river shipping and ports as part of the development strategy in Slavonia is also highlighted. The proposer warned that the proposal for a strategy, that the proposal for a strategy is given directions and guidelines, and that the concrete five-year plans that are in preparation will be, which will otherwise be completed by the end of the year, further define the deadlines themselves and the necessary financial resources for both waterways, ports, terminals as well as investment in river shipping. Following the discussion, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a strategy for the development of river transport in Croatia from 2008 to 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9052	Thank you. The Development and Reconstruction Committee? Chairman of the Committee of Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9053	Dear Vice-President, the Committee, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament, discussed the proposal for a river transport strategy in the Republic of Croatia at its first session held on 8 May and was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Parliament by an act of 2 May. Within the meaning of Rule 68a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the proposal in the same way as the parent body since it was strategies. In the introduction of the proposal's representative, it noted that the political and economic integration of the countries of Southeast Europe into the European Union takes place at the time of the creation of a strategy for the development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has been said to follow a European transport policy on environmental safety, market, infrastructure, shipbuilding and education in defining the strategy of river transport. The conventional navigation safety system shall give way to the pan-European navigation and traffic control system based on the introduction of river information systems. The debate highlighted the importance of developing river transport at the time of the integration of Southeast Europe into European trends and warned about the poor state of the river fleet, its age for more than 40 years and an insufficient share of the total river transport in which domestic shipowners participate with only 20% of the transport in our ports. The need to modernise, introduce innovation and meet new technical standards in river transport is highlighted. It is particularly alerted to the need for rapid operationalisation and the creation of short-term river transport development plans, which will provide not only for the necessary funds for the modernisation of the fleet but also for the education of the required profile of river transport personnel. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a River Transport Strategy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9054	Thank you. The Environmental Protection Committee? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9055	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will accept this proposed River Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, European transport policy has recently paid great attention to the coordinated development of all modes of transport, and to the even use of all profitable resources. Uncontrolled road traffic growth results in higher social costs most often manifested through environmental pollution, traffic accidents, crowds and related financial losses of the economy. The creation of a positive image of internal navigation as an economic, safe and environmentally acceptable mode of transport is important for the greater integration of industry into this sector. It was therefore necessary to develop a River Transport Development Strategy because so far all modes of transport have been regulated by the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the Croatian National Assembly's House of Representatives at a meeting held on November 12th as early as 1999. The strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia in the development of river transport are: 1. the integration of Central Europe with the Adriatic, the Danube River, the Danube-Sava channel, the Sava River to Sisak and Zagreb, and the train transport to the Adriatic ports, Rijeka and Ploče. And under 2. increase the share of river transport compared to other transport branches. The construction of the Danube multi-purpose channel – Sava is the most strategic issue of further development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia. The multi-purpose significance of the future canal is contained in its three main functions, which are irrigation, sailing and disposal, and a series of parallels. Kanal Dunav – Sava from Vukovar to Šamac when completed will serve agriculture, transport and the water economy. The strategic goal is to irrigate 33050 hectares of agricultural land, and the navigation channel of the strategic traffic police Croatia should only be considered through the achievement of 570 km long transport corridor Podunavlje – Jadran. The real is a combined river railway link that would ultimately consist of 61 km of the Danube canal – Sava from Vukovar to Šamac, 306 km of the channeled Sava River from Šamac to Sisak with two water stairs of Županja and Jasenovac and 200 km of the two-way railway line Sisak – Zagreb – Rijeka. The aim of the drain drain is to further edit the surface drain from 173,000 ha and ensure the conditions for the construction of the underground drain to 62000 ha of agricultural land. The second aim is to eliminate the occasional long-term and uncontrolled floods from the Pasman spring pool and regulate the water regime in it according to forest vegetation requirements. The processing of small waters is related to the irrigation and ecology of the settlement by the canal, and the channel ensures the use of technological water. With the construction of the canal, the waterway towards Western Europe will be reduced by 417 km. The navigation time will be less than 48 hours, and the fuel savings will be 8 to 10 tonnes per one suppressed system, while the road to the east would be reduced by 85 km. The construction of the Danube-Sava canal and the proposed sewerage of the Sava and Drava rivers harmonize extremely important assumptions in the rational integration of Podunov and the Adriatic as well as the internal network of waterways in the Republic of Croatia. An existing '99 strategy. the year cannot fully monitor the current trends in European transport policy, given the possibility of increasing the economic level of goods on the single European market, it is necessary to improve river transport as soon as possible through strengthening administrative capacity in state authorities and institutions, modernising port infrastructure and increasing reliability and efficiency of internal navigation. This new strategy, through its primary objectives, should define the strategic development of the river transport in Croatia, which has a favourable ratio of transport effects and costs, eco-acceptability, freedom of the market, and the security of the integration of Croatia's waterway network with the connection in the single Rayna – Main – Danube system. The strategy of river transport is to contribute to the implementation of the European Action Plan for River Transport NAIDES. The main principle of the European transport policy highlighted by this document is to establish a balance between different modes of transport as a key to the success of the sustainable transport development strategy. The level of the internal waterway infrastructure strategy is aimed at increasing the safety and efficiency of internal navigation. The regulation of waterways must meet the needs of users, which means ensuring smooth safe navigation for ships with maximum tow in accordance with the waterway class. In practice, this means ensuring a minimum depth of 2 and a half metres for 300 days a year, which is an international sailing class. Croatian waterways are specific in that they are mostly rivers along Croatia's borders. In view of this, regulatory projects should be coordinated with neighbouring countries. Croatia sees the joint projects as a priority, since they help establish better transport links between countries and create a precondition for a common economic improvement. Croatian river ports need quality and technological modernisation to meet existing and expected demand. In addition to modernising the basic port infrastructure, it is necessary to strengthen the port surveillance system. Luke needs to be associated with the main road and rail corridors in order to achieve better coordination for the economic backdrop and to create preconditions for the development of intermodal transport. As regards freight transport in the inland waterways, it records continued growth on the Danube River while on the Sava River it is mostly on a lower level due to very poor safety conditions for sailing in the lower part of the river. The larger activity of Croatian ports is related to an increase in international burden. In the last 10 years, river transport has increased in all river ports, and the largest increase has been recorded at Vukovar port with a very high percentage of transit traffic up to 80%. The Croatian port system also includes 4 international ports of Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek and Vukovar, as well as several current and future ports. The current situation marks the unbalanced market demand for goods transport in Sava and Danube mainly as a consequence of different navigational conditions, and technical and technological obsolescence and lack of capacity. Croatia's Rijeka ports need to be qualitatively and technologically tempered in order to meet the existing and expected transport demand. In addition to modernising the basic port infrastructure, the port security system should be improved. Waterways, the Rijeka ports represent an important transport resource of Eastern Croatia, Slavonia and Posavina which can be used for the faster economic development of these areas. The full impact would be achieved by locating economic and business areas as close as possible to the ports or within the port areas, provided that the conditions of navigation are improved, both local and foreign industries are expected to generate more traffic in the wider area of the river, such as the processing industry in Sisak and Kutina, the wood industry in Slavonski Brod, the chemical industry in Serbia, black metallurgy in northern Bosnia and tourism as a branch of strong interest in the development of the Sava River. In addition to the European Action Plan for River Transport, it is important to coordinate with the work of the Danube Commission whose task is to build a single system of regulation on the Danube and Harmonisation, to regulate internal navigation between the members of the European Union and the latest document of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River, which is related to the sustainable development of river navigation, is the main starting point for defining the strategy of river transport is the fact that the network of waterways of the Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the European waterway network, and on the European Danube Corridor number 7. With regard to the safety of navigation and environmental protection, this strategy needed to be maintained and improved by the conditions of safe and reliable navigation of inland waterways through the modernisation of the fleet, the introduction of innovations in transport technology and the fulfilment of new technical standards. As the interest in boating interests is reduced, an institutional programme should be developed to encourage the development of river transport through the education and scholarship programmes of students. The main objective is to increase small shipowners and adapt to technical requirements towards EU standards. Finally, after the adoption of several laws in the field of internal navigation as a legal framework, and the real institutional framework for the establishment of port administrations and agencies, and the involvement in international commissions such as the Danube and Sava Commission, it is also necessary to adopt the Strategy for the Development of River Transport of the Republic of Croatia as a logical sequel. The HDZ Representatives Club regards this strategy as necessary, modern and concise and proposes that it be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9056	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Vincelj, HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9057	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In principle, any good development strategy in any area must answer some fundamental questions. First, what do we want to achieve in this domain? Second, why does it matter to us? Third, how do we intend to do that? Fourth, what deadlines are we gonna do that in? And fifth, how much is that gonna cost us? The prerequisite for any debate on the important provisions of the river transport strategy is an image of the current situation. So, what is the situation on the freight transport market in the Republic of Croatia, what are the capacities and what are the infrastructure, administrative, professional river transport in the Republic of Croatia, what is the situation in our environment and what are the comparative advantages this type of transport has in relation to other modes of transport. Each good strategy must also have the elements of predicting the development of the situation in the area for which it is being brought and the anticipating development of the situation, setting its objectives and measures to achieve them. If we have read this proposal more carefully, we have seen that there is not a single element in it that a serious strategy should have, and therefore the Croatian People's Party Club cannot support the proposal for a strategy for developing river transport in this form. I stress, in this form. On the other hand, I would like to stress that the strategy for the development of river transport is an extremely important topic for this country, that this is the right time to discuss it, and that we hope that this parliamentary debate will foster but a more serious approach to reaching agreement on the further development of this type of traffic. However, it is necessary to open the debate and include a wider scientific and professional public in the development of the right strategy, in particular. I have already said that the first question to be answered by this strategy, and following an analysis of the current situation in the area of total transport, what do we want to achieve in river transport? What's our general goal? The current situation is such that domestic waterway goods traffic accounts for 0.3% of the total goods transport of the Republic of Croatia. This type of traffic from year to year in total traffic also participates less and less in absolute and relative figures. The 1999 Transport Development Strategy envisioned raising the share of river transport from then 3% to 15%. Somehow in a strange direction, we go from 3 to 15% when we get to 0.3%. And how when we built our first ship for internal waters in Croatian shipyards for waterway patrolling and surveillance, "Vučedolska dove", we plunged into water in December 2006 seven years from the strategy of the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia. We are now in a position to set the general goal in one of the following ways. First, we want to maintain the current level of participation of river transport in total traffic, and the objectives we will concentrate on in the next ten years are to increase the level of safety on waterways, improve the system of control and monitoring of transport, respond to the international obligations that we have as a country signatories of international agreements and agreements, and to bring the legislative and institutional framework in line, which is our obligations arising from the accession process. Secondly, we want to significantly increase the share of this type of traffic in total traffic and in due course, let's say 15 years to reach an average European level of 7% of this type of traffic. Or third, as a third option, we can update the target set in the transport development strategy, we already said that it was set to 15%. In order to define ourselves as one of these general objectives, we need to answer the other question from the introduction why we need to develop river transport, and here it is important to know the following. River transport is the cheapest way of transport, the ratios are about 1 to 3,5 to 6, if we compare it to rail and road transport, it requires the least energy consumption, and these days we become fully aware of what it means, it is the most acceptable, it provides the greatest security, the life of the facilities and the means of transport is the longest because of the need for a strong investment cycle in the Slavonian region, it fits the need for the state to do much more in that region than it has done so far, etc., etc. Depending on the answer to the first question, we will be able to discuss seriously further and seek answers to the following strategic questions. How do we intend to achieve our goals? What time are we gonna do this? How much is that gonna cost us? Where will we find the funds, or how to close the financial structure? It's a little dyspression. It is obvious that by intensifying the construction of highways, there has been a disturbance in the balance of investment ratios in transport infrastructure. In the development of the road network, up to 70% of total investments were made instead of a 40% strategy. But the final modernisation of road infrastructure slowly ends and when everything started or in short-term plans is completed, it will be a modern road network that has solved several of the most important tasks set up by the 1999 Transport Development Strategy. These are the integration of the country, the integration of the country with the most important European directions and the creation of a precondition for balanced development of all regions. What has definitely not been achieved, and has been one of the most important objectives of the strategy, is a coherent and sound development of the overall transport system and of all its parts. I'm talking about both railways and river traffic, of course. So in the opening part of my presentation, I said that now is the time to discuss this subject. If we decide to raise the percentage of the participation of river transport in total transport to the level as predicted by the general objective under b) or c) or 7% or 15%, respectively. If we want to harmonize investment in different forms of infrastructure network as foreseen in the 99th year strategy, which is listed here as the basis on which this proposal is also based, it is therefore necessary to set operational objectives and measures to be taken accordingly. The preconditions for this are analyses of the scientific and professional public, why and how to do so and clearly expressed political will to do so. At that time, questions are raised about the construction of the Danube-Sava channel and the expansion of the network and raising the quality of waterways, intensification of investments in ports, modernisation of the ship's network, investment in the transport monitoring infrastructure and everything else needed to be done for the adequate development of river transport. In this proposal, there is not one of these elements at least minimally valorised, especially not financially. We have no doubt that, but I am asking the promoter when, we will get the operationalisation of the strategy within deadlines and financial needs through the medium-term programme. But how do we Parliamentarians decide something when we don't even know about the project's financial structure? How many of us know about river transport so much that it can assess the financial weight of a project based on descriptive categories? If the situation or time has not yet been mature for the amounts and deadlines then it should not yet have come this naked, the brother-in-law strategy on our tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9058	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9059	We will skip both Dragonja and Mirna and we will now return to this River Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia. This is how on page 10 first talks about measures to implement the area of infrastructure, and then we say we will arrange waterways according to the requirements of international classification, remove narrow throats in access to ports, implement the project of construction of Danube-Sava, resolve ownership relations in the port area, coordinate investment needs in port infrastructure, connect ports with economic and entrepreneurial areas, connect ports with main road corridors, integrate ports into the system of Rijeka, information services et cetera et cetera. So that's what we should do, but about that later. We have learned from this report that Croatia's waterways at this point are 804.1 kilometers, of which 539.2 kilometers of international roads. Croatia has 57 ships with a total capacity of 44 thousand tonnes that are involved in international transport. It's about the size of a boat that's being worked today in Rijeka, Split, Trogir or Pula, so that's how much our ship's capacity is. Our shipmen drive or ride ships over 40 years old, take part in the transport of only 20% of the goods on that market, the rest are foreigners. If the shipmen probably don't have support, I guess this is about fuel, so if we want to help them, we should give them the status of farmer blue diesel. That our ports were outdated, inadequate we knew that without writing. There are no crews for river shipping. The biggest problem is to provide us with the passing of rivers for which it takes 300 days a year to ensure the airworthiness for vessels of minimum gas of 2.5 metres etc. etc. Why am I answering, though? So because I recently read an interview with Mr. Cobankovic in the morning list that Croatia's largest infrastructure project in the term of 2007-2011 will be the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. That's what all my predecessors have been talking about, and that's what Secretary of State Mr. Bacic said. Since that long-known investment, I don't think God knows where, let's go when these papers are opened, a couple of blankets are turned, one calf is grilled, but about there it's stopped. Now, what surprised me, Mr. Bacic mentioned a figure for that 5.5 billion kuna channel. In an interview with Mr. Cobankovic, Minister of Regional Development, I read that he speaks between 4 billion and 5 billion euros. We all know here the advantages of this river transport channel, of the development of cities that are here by these rivers. We know what would be an advantage for Croatian agriculture, but I don't think at the moment that one such project is going to be built, at the moment that only in 2008 is the obligation in the Republic of Croatia to repay 8.3 billion euros in external debt, and in order to do so we need to be in charge of an additional 11.1 billion euros. Today, Croatia's external debt is 34 billion euros, and by the end of the government's mandate it will be more than 50 billion euros. I think that when we don't even have the exact figures as my predecessor said, that simply for one such investment Croatia is not ready, although it is probably necessary if for no other reason, it is working on the position of agriculture along the channel and because of the fact that Croatia would receive a few more tens of kilometers of international waterways overnight. On page 8, literally, when we talk about this channel, it means a development concept, the expected state is characterized by the rise of the class of waterways of the Sava River to Sisak to the 4th class. It's the beginning of the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. So, the channel is mentioned in multiple places, but no one has said in this strategy where to secure the money, and so all of us, in parallel, don't sink under the burden of that channel or the Pelješac bridge and such megalomanic investments. In one word, before someone comes to mind that money is sought in international sources as stated by Minister Cobankovic, although it would probably be a century's work for Slavonia, let's give at least one piece of the amount that would be intended for that channel to resuscitate the ports along our rivers, Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek, Vukovar, let's build, let's build a dozen more ships to increase the participation of our ship's shipmen in the transport of goods, ensure the passage to start with these channels, and normally let's at least stimulate the boat's interest. There is no doubt that this channel is needed for Croatia, but at this point in Croatia there is no money for the channel, unless we give it in some concession such as Panama or Suez. But what you're going to do is a deindustrialized Slavonia is unfortunately not interesting to anyone, and that channel assumes we're not carrying oil. If the actual figure of the channel is 4.5 billion euros, as announced by Minister Cobankovic, it is indeed a question of what the money should be rerouted to. I am deeply convinced that because of the expensive price of food, a Slavonia will start to recover relatively quickly, but on one condition: before we dig a canal of peasants, we will give the country, the country, clearly the same thing as those in Istria, to give them loans to get to the machinery, to try to design this processing industry that will take over these products, and normally we must understand all of us, and they, too, that not only can live on the corn and wheat incentives that they grow on areas of 2 or 3 hectares. Two or three acres can't live anywhere in the world. It will be harder and harder to live with 2 or 3 hectares in the Republic of Croatia. And it's not the point now that someone is providing them with a market like they're always saying, but that they're being followed by this processing industry and that this product of these people is, in a way, the trademark of the whole country, one word brand. So I'm asking you to stop at the ball, let's not fantasize about a channel that doesn't have the resources at this point, no matter how likely the government would build it into the history of that area. Let's come up with real priorities for the Republic of Croatia, they're roads, they're going, the railroad goes, I hope this tunnel goes through Učka, some towns are being built, new ports are being built in Zadar, and I want to believe that it will also be in Plomin. It is necessary to modernise these Rijeka ports that I used to, Slavonski Brod, Osijek, Vukovar mentioned, Sisak, go energy systems, LNG will soon start on Krka. Let us consider the state of our entire health care, resuscitate economic operators, first of all shipbuilding, encourage exports, etc. And then this one economic growth of the Republic of Croatia will also enable the construction of one of these truly sad Dunav-Sava projects. I agree that such a channel can stimulate economic activity primarily in Slavonia, but also all of the development of one country cannot be subordinated to this channel or to the Pelješa Bridge and such projects. Finally, this report was given to us, as my predecessor said, on only 17 pages. It's unserious, and we have an ambition to call such a single program a strategy. This program as I somehow experienced it, it was before a poor woman, as if Jeremiah had written it, not the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, etc. This proposal is about showing impotence, and unfortunately sometimes the strategy comes down to one single goal, e.g. Modernizing the ports, but let's do it then, and let's leave the megalomania to others. And that's why it might be good for this strategy to go into second reading, but to get some financial specification about how much our ministry's beautiful desires are and how hard it is, how much it is, what amounts it's going to be, and who's going to have to make that money clear. All in all, I think that this proposal for a strategy and development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia 2008-2018 is not ready for adoption and would be opportunised if the Croatian Parliament again sent it to the competent ministry and we were given the opportunity to present our court on a second reading and on concrete financial indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9060	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9061	By agreeing with most of what counterpart Cain said, I still have to correct an incorrect assumption. From the words of fellow Cain, it could be concluded that the work on the channel began by saying about turning the calf or what. The papers didn't start. It is also true that before the parliamentary elections in 2000, Minister Kalmeta announced the construction of the canal last year that she had almost begun here, but not even the shovel was even stabbed, and now Minister Cobankovic has probably prejudged, justifying that nothing was done that was promised for Slavonia in 2004 is now re-emerged with the idea of the two-and-a-half century-old that should make Slavonia happy. He won't make Slavonia happy, but he'll make some lobbies happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9062	Thank you. A second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9063	Mr. Cain said we need to modernise the river ports. What's it worth to modernise the river ports, Mr. Cain, if the waterways aren't capable of receiving ships and river transport? Secondly, you were talking about the Danube-Sava channel. Well, there's no strategy here to determine the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. ... Look, it says here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just a little while, if I may correct Mr. Fellow Representative. He says he's doing a construction project. So it's the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9064	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary State Secretary, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9065	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would just like to look at a few allegations that have been touched in my opening presentation that have been touched in my opening presentation, which referred to my opening presentation and which spoke about the proposal for a strategy for developing river transport in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the fact is and we are aware that the internal waterways, in my introduction and I said, are located in areas that have been completely affected by the Homeland War. The fact is that these waterways for this reason could not be maintained. The fact is that the state has brought devastations and the fact is that it was clear that there was absolutely no river traffic on the Croatian rivers, primarily on the Sava as the longest waterway in the Republic of Croatia and we know clearly what the situation was like in the Danube as the seventh European transport corridor. Practically, Vukovar as the largest Croatian river on the inner waters absolutely could not operate and could not develop. All of this together has led to a clear devastation of river transport and in real terms but also institutional terms. In 1998, we passed the Internal Navigation Act, and long after that, all those demands that came from the law itself could not be realized. It is only 2001 that port administrations are launched and established as institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia that care and care for ports on internal waters. It was therefore necessary to establish, firstly, an institutional framework on how and how to address the issue of building port facilities on rivers in the Republic of Croatia. Principles were taken in the construction of these institutional frameworks in river ports in the same way as it was built, set up in seaports. Therefore, once the port administrations were established, they should have gone into the procedure always envisaged and the strategy on which the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia was discussed in 1999 and should have been implemented and implemented by the law itself. This implies, firstly, the adoption of master plans for each port, the adoption of appropriate documentation for each port. And at this point other than Sisak and here is the end of the master plan in Sisak in all the ports on the inner waters is at the end of the preparation of documentation which can only then serve as a basis for entering financial arrangements or which can serve as a basis for the start of the construction of port infrastructure and port substructure in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, no qualitative activity in those ports was possible when the ports did not have quality port infrastructure and quality substructure. I said in my introduction that, therefore, I am based on the current documentation and the basis of projects that this ministry, together with the port administrations, implements in Croatian ports, we are at the conclusion of the medium-term programmes for the development of Croatian ports on rivers and the construction of inland waterways. And I said that in each port activities are being carried out in the construction of port infrastructure and port superstructures so that according to this medium-term development and construction programme in the Republic of Croatia and for Vukovar, and for Osijek, and for Slavonski Brod, total investments were planned for Sisak in the five-year period at the amount of 116m euros. Also, given that the waterways in the Republic of Croatia are in the rule of the river, which are at the same time the border and that it is precisely the border of the Republic of Croatia crossing in the majority of Croatian inland waterways investment in rivers or investment in raising the quality of waterways on rivers is possible only to work in agreement with neighbouring countries with which we should have signed internal navigation agreements and there was one prerequisite that could be even started to build inland waterways. I want to introduce you to the fact that by the basis of the Internal Waters Act, we established an Agency for Inland Waterways whose headquarters is in Vukovar and which started working two years ago and whose purpose is exclusively maintenance and marking of waterways. Also four countries on the Sava River, so Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia founded a Sava Commission based in Zagreb with the sole goal of rehabilitating the Sava River waterway to a level before 1990, with the aim of making the entire length of the Sava River in the Republic of Croatia an international waterway. In order to be able to build or rehabilitate the Sava River at all, it is necessary to define with neighbouring countries the appropriate documentation from the fissibility of the study to the project documentation, to find quality financial resources so that the Sava River can be rehabilitated to the airworthiness that was on the Sava River before 1910. But only when the Sava River is rehabilitated, when the narrow throats on the Sava River are realized by a series from Sisak to Belgrade then we can talk about quality shipping on the Sava River, then we can only talk about the rise of port, equipment both in Sisak and in Slavonski boat. Therefore, the internal navigation is connected to one another, there are no spectacular steps, there is no skipping, but the procedure that is very demanding on the construction of internal waterways requires one, first of all the institutional organisation that we have solved through the establishment of port administrations and through the establishment of our state waterway agency, until the agreement at the level of the international commission, the Sava Commission, which, as I said, has its headquarters in Zagreb and which is currently preparing documentation that we can move to rehabilitating the Sava River. When it comes to the Danube, I would also like to say, therefore, that the Danube is one of the most important European waterways in the interior waters, it is clearly passing through the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. it is a border in a large part between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, one of the most important preconditions for the development of Croatian river transport. We are currently implementing a project for the construction of the Vukovar port which is closely linked to the construction of the Danube-Sava canal. And now I want to go back to that channel. So it's true that I said in my introduction, and it's a data that's accurate, I don't know, where Mr. Kajin's data of 4 or 5 billion euros... The canals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, I hope that very soon it will come to a procedure here in the Assembly of passage of the Danube-Sava channel's spatial plan. He is currently in the process of making the very proposal at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and will be sent very quickly to the government's procedure, i.e. he will come to the Parliament. There was no activity on the construction of the canal, as far as I know, in the mandate of the last government, nor in the term of office of this government, in the sense of laying a cornerstone, however. We were only in 2006 when the Agency for Internal Waterways was established, which was entrusted to the Agency with the work on the construction of the canal practically started with serious work on the construction of the canal. All that has been done in the past decades on the construction of the canal was not harmonised, it was not driven from one place. At this point, we can say, therefore, that, very soon, a spatial plan will come to the Parliament about the construction of the canal, which is largely mentioned in the very strategy of the development of Croatian river transport, because we believe there is no more serious, quality management of river transport in the Republic of Croatia without the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, and we will do so through the debate on the channel, when a spatial channel plan is brought here in the Parliament and present it. So through investment in ports, through investment in waterways, we intend to invest in the next five-year period as I said before a billion and 765 million kunas without channels. With the channel, clearly depending on the intensity and dynamics of the construction, we can only know exactly how much internal navigation will be invested in full over the next five years. Therefore, once the strategy has been adopted, which will serve as a basis for the development of medium-term development programmes and ports and waterways, we will be able to demonstrate in detail the resources. The traffic strategy of 1909 said that 20 per cent of all funds invested in Croatian transport will be invested in maritime transport and in domestic waterways. However, given the fact that kudikamo was easier to move towards the construction of road infrastructure, I dare say both rail infrastructures and maritime infrastructures than it did in view of the sensitivity and problems of river transport, this level of river transport investment has not been made. So here I am, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: Time's at the end, time.]] So now they're... Pre-conditions both in institutional terms and in terms of the project documentation to make a new step in the quality construction of river transport in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9066	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9067	I believe in the well-intentioned nature of our secretary of state who said that these benches would be coming soon upon the passage of the Danube-Sava channel's spatial plan, but also said that no activity was taken in connection with the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, nor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9068	Excuse me, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9069	The correction is that the actions were taken, therefore, the purchase of land was made in some municipalities in Brod-Posavina County and in Vukovar-Srijem County. So, in addition to having no spatial plan, a purchase of land was made for the canal... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9070	Thank you. And the second correction to the incorrect quote by Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9071	I'm correcting the State Secretary's incorrect allegations in the sense that no activity has been taken on the Danube-Sava channel. On the website of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 2006 report... means from the visit of Mr. Cacic the Day of Shipmen and Seamen, that is to say, the visit to Sisak says: "In the development of the river traffic of the states in the next five years he intends to invest about four billion kunas, the most installation of the Danube Sava Canal and something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9072	Now we're gonna break up. We'll continue at 3:00. The first is the honourable representative Zdravko Kelić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9073	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the session and debate on the proposal for a river transport development strategy in the Republic of Croatia. The club of representatives of HSS Mr. Zdravko Kelić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9074	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The whole of Europe strives to develop inland waterways and reroute goods flows to riverways while in Croatia it does not refer exactly in the same direction. Although Croatia is a member of the Danube Commission, it has international waterways, it is a signator of international agreements on river transport and, in its strategy, has focused on increasing river transport, this branch of transport has been neglected. The Republic of Croatia is rich in water sources and river streams and we all know that water is the source of life. The richness of water and the benefits it provides have been used for centuries for the development of transport, economic development, trade and tourism. When adopting a strategy for the development of river transport, Croatia follows a European transport policy, but with special care, care must be taken about the possibilities, circumstances and limitations of our river streams and river shores. Croatia is a country of natural and geographical characteristics that are a prerequisite for creating and building better exploitable waterways that are reflected multiplely in the Croatian economy. In the conditions of preparation for Croatia's entry into the European Union, it is necessary to adopt a strategy that will enable the long-term training of river ports and streams and create stimulating conditions for quality river transport. Unadjusted and inadequately built and trained supporting infrastructure, especially the lack of maintenance of waterways and the underused force of river streams, results in the current inadequate development of river transport in Croatia. It is noted that the strategy does not contain financial indicators and there are no specific implementing measures in the context of the Danube-Sava project. Significant financial resources are needed, so given the small domestic commercial fleet of 57 ships of the average age of 40, the question of eligibility is raised. It is also not visible from the strategy whether an assessment of the possible increase in the pollution of our rivers, the irrevocable destruction of forests and biodiversity has been made. The construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel, the Vukovar-Shamac stock is likely to be justified in the long term but should be considered from all points of view, including an economic view of long-term advantages. Certainly, with the provision of water for about 30,000 hectares, there is an important prerequisite for the development of irrigation and modern agricultural production. From the point of view of the development of continental tourism, the channel also has advantages. The most important thing is that during the dry part of the year, June, July and August in the Eastern Croatia area water is provided from the Danube and Sava rivers in order to be rich in water streams that do not have water or have very little water. This water will make life possible for many plant, animal species. From the point of view of port traffic there is a certain concern that it will strengthen the ports in Bosnia, Sava and that Vukovar port will lose importance. Our ports Brod and Sisak can only be strengthened if they are well equipped and Sava's airworthiness improves by digging and maintaining the trough at the necessary depth to sail. So the Vukovar port could lose between 60% and 70% of traffic but a very possible solution and the new profit is the introduction of a taxi to pass through a flag-side channel to Serbia that collects a tax when it sails through the canals. It is important to note that infrastructure preconditions need to be created in order for each port to be linked to major and important road traffic. The Republic of Croatia is a country of such natural and geographical characteristics that are a prerequisite for the creation of construction and better exploitable waterways. For further development, it is therefore necessary to coordinate the waterway arrangements in a hasty manner in accordance with the cooperation agreements with neighbouring countries. I'm going to say an example, Drava in her section to Osijek port is not borderline and is not arranged, so most of the year the fleet is limited, which has caused huge losses in the port's business but it's even worse that the big boaters do not want to enter the Drava because of the small gauze. The cargoed ship has a gauze of 2,40 meters, and in Drava it has between 1,40 and 2 metres of water from the third to the tenth kilometers. A similar situation is with the Sava River. It is not known when to work for the smoothing of these important streams such as Drava and Sava and what would be necessary because of the multiple losses which, with this average situation in the Republic of Croatia, have suffered for many years. The biggest aid for shipowners would be to ensure quality shipping for ships in Drava or Danube in the Republic of Croatia, not to go to Serbia and elsewhere. The state should assist shipowners to achieve competitiveness on the market in co-financing of fuel or oil. It is illogical that oil for shipowners at cost contains a contribution to road construction. Therefore, oil should be uniformly priced as in other Danube countries foreseen for river transport. For example, in Bulgaria, the price is about EUR 550 per tonne, and in Croatia about a thousand and 100 euros per tonne, which is of course inadmissible. It happens that ships in international transport buy oil mostly abroad, and we in Croatia have nowhere to shop because in our ports when a fuel truck comes in, it stretches the hose across other vessels, which is organisationally difficult and environmentally unacceptable. So one of the basic tasks in ports is to build fuel and oil supply infrastructures, with pumps in the extreme case in accordance with the environmental standards that Europe recognises and has. Schools for the acquisition of shipowners should be organised in Osijek, Sisak or Vukovar. Since there are no shortages of personnel, there is a big problem with all the boaters and it is not easy to solve. One option would be to reduce the number of years of boarding as a condition for a higher level of boating. Thus, shipowners will also be forced to import labour from the countries of Eastern Europe and the problem can also be solved by retraining, additional education and the like. It is necessary to work quickly on the construction of the ship's remont facility on the way in and out of Croatia. And this means that in Batina to build a border crossing on the water with the accompanying services that already exist there; customs, police in Batina as well as in Ilock as there is a berth owned by the port administration. Luka Vukovar was poorly used and there are organised customs and police. It's also true of the Rachinovs on the Sava. The above would therefore be easy and easy to ensure, therefore, that the above would easily and simply ensure the development of these areas through the employment of people as well as the development of other content related to the above mentioned, river tourism or food placement. Certainly, opening these border crossings reduces the possibility of smuggling numerous things including people. It is very illogical that a ship from Ukraine or Bulgaria can come almost to the centre of Osijek without any prior customs and police inspection. And only on arrival in Osijek at the Port of Transit at the hospital do ships perform necessary checks in the city itself. The Danube is also neglected as Europe's largest river where goods transport is the largest. We must not allow Croatia to be just a transit stop for tourists. It is necessary to make a hasty but quality effort to open at least two more ports on the Danube. The conditions are Batin, Aljmash, Opatovac, Ilock. Opatovac has an ideally low part for a ship's winter resort that Croatia does not have despite the benefits for construction as well as Batina. An important segment in shipping would be the supply of various cargo and tourist supplies, the placement of Croatian products. Since large ships should complement fresh food supplies during the trip, one of the ports can be Croatia, even if only with our delicacies that we have, and so far we have not successfully placed them. So let me conclude in the end. A well-developed strategy and development of river transport in Croatia provides broad opportunities for the development of our country's economy, such as the development of shipbuilding, strengthening of infrastructure, the placement of agricultural and industrial products, continental and river tourism. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will accept this River Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia with the belief that a good part of these proposals, which have been made here, will be respected and incorporated into that programme that will be finally and made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9075	Thank you. At 15.14, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. SDP representative club Mr. Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9076	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a River Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the upcoming ten-year period. It is a document that, following a programme for the development of the railway infrastructure that we recently accepted in the Assembly, should be a continuation of the strategic planning of the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia. The importance of traffic development should not be particularly stressed as it is clear to all that it is important for the overall development of the Republic of Croatia, its international integration and the integration of the entire Croatian space. Transport of goods in inland waterways, so channels, rivers and lakes is one of the oldest forms of transport that is still developing strongly and is increasingly gaining importance since it is the most economical and environmentally acceptable form of transport. The transport of river waterways in Europe is particularly viewed as a form whose main feature is the convenience of the transport of large quantities of goods in long relations. The competitiveness of such traffic comes from a series of exploitation and economic advantages. Compared to rail or road traffic, the duration of the facilities is longer, energy consumption is lower, safety is higher and transport costs are lower. River transport can produce more tons of miles per unit length of road than any other mode of transport Mr. Secretary of State has ever spoken of. The exception is, of course, pipeline transport, but it has certain restrictions. For example, it was calculated in Germany that transport costs per tonne of goods transported and kilometre for river transport are six times lower than road or three times lower than rail traffic. Thanks to the many years of systematic development of inland waterway traffic, Europe is covered by a network of rivers and canals, allowing it to sail to every major city, so that Europe's ports such as Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Hamburg and the like are connected to southern Europe. So, Black Sea. Rivers and channels of the European Union are transported as already said between 6 and 20, up to 24% of all burdens, as is the case in the Netherlands. Countries with developed internal water network and river transport have a share of transport in the unit price of industrial product cca 5%, while in countries among which Croatia is unfortunately 15 percent and more. It is precisely for these reasons that the whole of Europe aims to further develop internal waterways and reroute goods flows to them, especially for the transport of scattered cargo. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is already in the '99 traffic development strategy. the year highlighted the importance of river transport, pointing to the disintegration of the network of inland waterways as the main problem in taking over a significant share of river transport in the total transport of goods. Unfortunately, since the establishment of that strategy, it has not been sufficiently done in the field of development of river transport, which is why the current situation is such that, as we have already heard, the Croatian fleet consists of 57 vessels of an average age of about 40 years with a modest transport capacity of about 44000 tonnes. The result of such a situation is that local river shipping operators participate with only 20% while the rest are being taken over by foreign shipmen. Just for comparison, let’s say, one information recently published in a business journal, that is, early last year. An example may not like it, but it has been announced that Serbia is creating the largest river fleet on the Danube with about 400 ships. So it's kind of a class, although it may not be an adequate comparison, given that they have the Danube to a greater extent shows the importance of river transport and the thinking of our surrounding states. Although river transport has been nearly tripled from 646000 tonnes in 2000 to 1.8 million tonnes in the past year. It is still only about 1 and a half percent of the total Croatian goods traffic, and about 2/3 of the river traffic before the Homeland War. It is indisputable that the Republic of Croatia has great potential for the development of highly competitive river transport, and that, as a basis, it should be more significant to encourage more intensive use of available river routes. The Republic of Croatia is undergoing several international transport corridors or branches of those of which are as we heard one river. So, the seventh pan-European Danube corridor. This corridor also integrates Croatia's internal waterways into the European waterway network through the signing of a European agreement on major inland waterways of international importance. This has made Croatian river transport part of European river transport as well as the general transport system which connects us with Western, Central and Eastern Europe and combined transport to the Adriatic Sea and other parts of Europe and the world. According to this, we heard that the rivers Sava, Drava and Danube, i.e. the water ports Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Sisak are included in the network of ports opened for international traffic. The fourth class of airworthiness was also adopted as a condition for international transport, i.e. the possibility that ships with a capacity of up to 1500 tonnes should be transported on those waterways. Unfortunately, there are only a third of the waterways in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be borne in mind that sailing inland waterways in the Republic of Croatia is only safe in the middle and higher waterways of the river because they have significant waterway amplitudes that sometimes amount to up to 10 metres. It is not safe from low or lower waterways and must be limited by the gauze of the vessel or must be discontinued. The high potential of river transport would be even more pronounced by better linking the river network to the Adriatic Sea, which would allow faster flow of goods and reduce the overall cost associated with it, and by some experts, a large part of international transport would be attracted to our waterways, resulting in additional profits. Joining the river network with the Adriatic Sea for Croatia is a major challenge. Because of the very high cost of realising such a project. However, this problem is continuously accessible in professional studies and projects, and according to some expert opinions, the achievement of it is not seen for 50 years. Until then, it is necessary to improve the classes of existing waterways whose performances do not require large investments and will allow for better transport connections and to relieve road traffic. It is also necessary to develop logistics centres in the form of industrial and economic areas close to the ports so that they do not serve themselves. So we need to develop an economic backdrop. The intermodal traffic that we have also heard about here includes different forms of transport and should be developed in such a way as to turn the world's burdens into Croatian ports and to reach our river ports through the railways and continue on the road to Europe. It is, therefore, about 5 million tonnes that should be received by Croatian river ports, which would cut the road from them to Northern Europe by about 5 to 6 days, and the price would be significantly lower in terms of speed and efficiency of transport. Therefore, the economic justification of such a transport model is unquestionable. The proposal for a strategy in the form in which we got it before it could be called an action plan for the development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia rather than a strategy. He has only just cited the objectives outlined and taxively lists measures to achieve them without more detailed elements of their work. The proposal does not define any deadlines which dynamicise the course of implementation of the established strategic provisions. Furthermore, no element of the proposed strategy is defined in a value or financial perspective, which is why there is no visible projection of the investment of the Republic of Croatia in the development of river transport during the upcoming ten-year period. Only here did the State Secretary mention the amount that should be available for all of this, i.e. the extent to which certain elements of the implementation of this strategy should be financial. The applicant's explanation that this strategy will define five-year plans to plan in detail for development within specific areas of the strategy, i.e. waterways, ports, modernisation of the river fleet, logistics facilities, environmental protection facilities, etc. There may be a difficult answer to a number of important issues that have been raised in the debates so far. The lack of the proposal is that there is no indication of the possible impact of changes in the price of oil derivatives on the achievement of the strategy, as well as how much and in what form certain elements of the strategy such as increasing river transport on planned 8 to 10% of total transport or changes in the waterway network can affect the ecological system in terms of the rise of different types of human and environmental threats. However, taking into account the importance of developing river transport for the development of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, especially its eastern part, Slavonia, Baranja, Posavina, which is due to war destruction and wartime events at the beginning of the Croatian regions in terms of development. Despite the highlighted shortcomings of this proposal, the SDP advocates' club will accept the adoption of a strategy for developing river transport as a basic or initial document which, of course, needs a lot more, a lot of finishing and completion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9077	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9078	Dear Vice President, distinguished secretary, colleague and fellow MPs. The National Minorities Club will support the adoption of the Strategy on River Transport of the Republic of Croatia because, as I have already pointed out today, it is still a time for the political and economic integration of the countries of Southeast Europe into the European Union and that certainly an increased economic exchange of goods, as well as for the transfer of goods, both in the direction of Southeast Europe and vice versa, in the direction of Europe itself, to the 500 million market will certainly have importance. And while transport by landways is growing dizzyly, with it and, normal fuel consumption, air pollution, usurping working surfaces is becoming the most important river transport as the most economical with a whole series of advantages. Unfortunately, although we are talking about 800km of waterways, only about 300km of waterways meet the conditions for international waterways, and certainly one of the first tasks should be to regulate waterways for increased reliability, but also the efficiency of inland navigation. We have 4 international ports, Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek and Vukovar, but they are also characterised by technical, technological obsolescence, primarily lack of capacity. If the additional commercial fleet that is already here is the same, we all stressed that it is an average age of more than 40 years, it is not surprising that domestic shipmen in total river transport are participating with only 20%. And surely this strategy provides a good task to increase the transport of goods in rivers, i.e. to ensure the competitiveness of our shipmen and that this is not an easy job at all because it is also coming to modernise the fleet, modernise the ports, invest in waterways, certainly and invest in the entrepreneurial zones which my predecessor mentioned, however, the data is precisely saying that entrepreneurial zones within the ports are clearly expanding, and it is certainly missing already a little space. It is good that the strategy points to another important segment, which is education and employment because there are no specialised internal navigation schools, and the fact is that today there are already no personnel in the internal navigation, therefore in order to strengthen river navigation it will certainly be necessary to educate the staff, which will increase and hire especially our region of Slavonia, where unemployment is high. I believe even that the solution proposed to school in maritime schools is not bad, but it is certain that with the support instruments of shipowners and ships it will be necessary to plan both support and student schools, i.e. those schools that will have boating activities, especially for inland navigation. Certainly, to operate on practically this strategy is one of the most important at the moment and that it is certainly necessary to define the funds. I was particularly happy yesterday, I must say, when we talked about pre-accession funds where it was precisely in preparation where it was visible that in preparation within the IPA, i.e. in segment three are already planning, i.e. to run a programme of renovations both the Vukovar ports of the same, and, above all, the waterway of Sava, i.e. bringing the Sava River into the European level gauges, i.e. the European navigation network. And so, certainly not, as small as this strategy is, I think what we're doing today in that area might be saying that it's going into realisation. And certainly, with impatience and we in the Club of National Minorities expect the adoption of four-year plans that will certainly have more details than finances, from the time of implementation we all expect and therefore the National Minority Club will support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9079	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9080	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here with the secretary of state for the second time, last time the same thing was similar in the port, then he was, unable to attend the contract and the agreement to open the biodiesel factory at the port, in the river port of Slavonski Brod, if I'm not mistaken. In fact, when we promote this development strategy, I can't help but think about it, if it didn't include me on that 19th-century river cloth, if I were to call this a Slavonic cloth, which, for the second time, is actually established and determined by the development strategy, a strategy for developing river transport in the Republic of Croatia, and the one from 1999 where traffic was actually covered, all kinds of traffic. Obviously, as far as river transport is concerned, the real strategy was either gone or remained on paper alone. The best evidence of this is that 3% of the total transport in the Republic of Croatia which was waste on river transport remains only 1.5% of the total, therefore, of the traffic in the Republic of Croatia, and our intention is to increase this percentage by implementing this strategy. So, as it is in Europe from 6 to 20%, everything depends on how we do and how much we invest in this strategy. On page 4 of this proposal we have one, one chart on which to determine the causality of the internal navigation problem. There are countless that ultimately result in an unsatisfactory share of internal navigation on the transport market. I'd say, more... and this is not written, and you have about 20 of these reasons, which are indeed all present during the past or past period of time that there is one as visible as well as the invisible influence of the road lobby in the Republic of Croatia which has also contributed to the fact that river transport, i.e. inland navigation, is on an unsatisfactory level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When Mr. Secretary of State said that there was to tell the Sava Commission that's exactly what it's called then we need the public, not to warn but... And I heard that so I couldn't believe my ears that the Republic of Slovenia was preparing to build a port in Brežice, if I was well informed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina has also made international contacts, to say the talks in which the channel, possibly the Danube-Sava channel, does not end up in Shamco, but you know where? In front of Brcko. And Brcko would be that port and Brcko District... the free, total free zone would actually take over the greatest load and the biggest traffic, and their corridor that would go from Brcko to Tuzla and towards Sarajevo, the plates, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, clearly, we need to work on this, therefore, not only from the point of view of realisation, therefore, material resources to achieve this, but also from the international side of the force that is happening in Europe, especially in Southeast Europe, so let's keep an eye on that. It is a remarkable fact that in the price of oil for our ships, for our river fleet is isolated and part for road construction, it really doesn't turn out to be sad, but I would say paradoxical, paradoxical data, rather than vice versa. Furthermore, we also know that the late President Tudjman also expressed one support for river transport when he travelled by boat to Rugvica in 1993, if I am not mistaken, to Rugvica, therefore, to the home of Zagreb. It was a symbolic, one symbolic, one symbolic move but it was made clear that the Republic of Croatia needs to count on river navigation and, therefore, as one of the economically profitable and environmentally clean, therefore, ways to transport goods. Unfortunately, I'm saying it's out of line. I think this road lobby, which is then here, we're witnessing construction and roads and everything we really need. Even here, in this development strategy, page 10 is mentioned in some other places, but always somewhere else. He says the implementation measures in the area of infrastructure connect the ports with the main road corridors, therefore, connect the ports with the main road corridors, so I would say the railway corridors, yes. Namely, here's an example, here's Slavonski Brod, who lost the mark of the railway hub, unfortunately, and needlessly, and we have three industrial railways, and the port of the ship that will be connected to the train station, Slavonski Brod, the car wash and still the Slavonski Brod is running in traffic, too, it's your fache as a border railway station and although the railway for the Bosnian Ship is definitely abolished and removed, so, it's an adaptation, is it? But that's still being run like a border train station or a station. As for this ship's part and the resources in shipbuilding that are out of date capacity that are no longer used, we heard Serbia renew it, for people who would prepare for river navigation, I think the idea mentioned here in the strategy is not quite acceptable. I think that in Slavonia there are universities, in Slavonski Brod, in Vukovar, University of Osijek, there is also a Faculty of Engineering in Slavonski Brod, there are and therefore there are excellent predispositionses of local, so the Sava River which is completely watery in... Slavonski Brod, that such a school for boaters, for river boaters, is established at the Velect in Slavonski Brod. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, Mr. Former Mayor waving with his head. Thank you very much. Mr. Cain took my word for it because he said somehow water on his mill and on the tunnels through Učka, etc. I like it when all our ends are beautiful and beautiful, but he has to understand too, I thought it was much more flexible in that matter, that Slavonia is indeed lagging behind and that this investment that is supposed to be five-year-old 116 million euros in four ports, if I understood Mr. Secretary of State well. It's about 800 million kuna in the next five years at port facilities in Slavonia. Then I must also point out that over the past five years, Slavonski Brod has been invested in the port with a number and a letter of 35 million kuna. At the same time, I know that there are provisions in government and specifics and Adriatic orientation which is obviously a priority, is built a series of ports at sea, let God be built, but it amounts to telling you in some way far greater, not to mention now the last decisions of the government on the port of Galženica, etc., the port of Rava etc. But some harbor and sea. Therefore, we seem to be somehow by a decision of more Europe, as well as by the proposal of the Law on Local Administration and Self-Government, which I do not have to say must be fully accepted, and this law which Europe is asking for, and which it wants us to accept the White Paper and to accept NADAES, is that, the European Action Plan for River Transport, in order to engage fully and fully in the European river navigation policy, which is very widespread, which I therefore something that, when you go to Paradise, then you see and become all this ecology, economy and one tourism vision of the view of the barges there, etc. moving to heaven, Germany or anywhere else, in the Netherlands, so here I think it's to say hello. And as for the Danube-Sava channel, and let me say that it's causing major controversy on the subject of organicity, and it's listed by some biologists, environmentalists, etc. that we will be extinct by a Slavonic oak, that there will be a disturbance of groundwater, etc. I cannot still understand from this material, from this strategy, whether until 2018 it is only a project for the Danube-Sava channel or whether to build the Danube-Sava channel. Since on page 10, the implementation measures in the area of infrastructure write to implement the construction project, it does not say to build the Danube-Sava channel, which would be quite clear and then set out what it is. In the port captainship of Slavonski Brod some months ago, I asked about the Danube-Sava channel, which was still interested in Austria-Hungarian plans. And since then, there have been plans to cut through the Slavonic plain, Eastern Slavonia via the Danube-Sava channel. Mr. Captain, the director of the port captain said that the waterway is shortened by about 400 kilometers. 400 kilometers... Today, at a time of maximum fuel cost, and we believe it's not the end of oil prices, today 400 kilometers, it's a terrible savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd almost say if nothing else, for that reason it would be very positive. When I asked the captain for long sailing from Losinj, who is usually a Brodjan, why do ships crash, so large overseas ships with hundreds of thousands of gross registers crash, so how big is the boat so they can't be seen? So he says they're racing to get to the morus as soon as possible or as they say in the seal, they don't have to stop because they're wasting less fuel. And we use the Danube-Sava channel to save 400 kilometers and save I don't know what amount of fuel, I don't want to count because I'm not a traffic expert or an oil expert, but I'm sure large amounts of fuel, and we get what's absolutely safe for Slavonia to need, drain and irrigate. I hope that in the project that will be done will be covered and these two segments, they are very important for Slavonia because it can produce food in huge quantities. It used to be said that it can feed half of Europe, and today here we import for two billion dollars of food, as Mrs. Petir here said at the exhibit. Unfortunately, from the roadside, there was also an import lobby, and so Slavonia actually goes into one and the economic and demographic, and I would say that people are depressed and with very little will, or else they're wrong, so they're a little astounded for this pay phone. Anyway, this proposal for a strategy is to support as far as we're concerned, I say a representative from Slavonia with what's been said here by the Secretary of State and possibly with some other corrections, not to mention the promises that the dynamics of these plans will be done, which will be drawn up by the strategy that is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9081	Thank you. There's been a debate in this part of the clubs. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say something today about the safety of navigation and environmental protection as well as the port system. The establishment, maintenance and improvement of the conditions of safe and reliable navigation by inland waterways has been continued. This aspect should be analysed in particular given the type of load and the expected increase in the demand for dangerous cargo transport. Although the number of accidents on the waterways of the Republic of Croatia has not been high in the past five years, the expected growth in traffic and the resulting increased risk of possible accidents and the size of the effects of potential water incidents require that the existing level of safety be brought to a higher level. In order to achieve this, in Croatia, there is a need to establish clear procedures in the event of incident situations and to improve existing systems... solving and recording the situation of Slavonic waterways. The security of navigation at the level of the European waterway network gets a new dimension of the introduction of river systems... service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Monitoring and navigation services, development of river... Croatia's service has put Croatia at the very top of river transport priorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The core of the system is already in test application in the Croatian part of the Danube and Drava, which completes the first phase of the project... A high level of requirements under the European Parliament Council Directive has been achieved in technical terms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is necessary to define more clearly and fully the legal framework for the implementation of the RIS powers of the competent authority as well as to strengthen the administrative capacity of the users of the system. The next step is to establish a national RIS centre to be the national coordinator and centre for the international exchange of information generated by the system in a manner prescribed by that Directive. It is also necessary to define the organisational... RIS structure in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia plans, in cooperation with neighbouring countries, to consider extending the implementation of RIS to other waterways. The main motive for this is the fact that the RIS can contribute to reducing the risk of accidents that exist due to reduced water gauges in existing navigation restrictions. In accordance with the European agreement on the international transport of dangerous substances by inland waterways, preventive measures against potential risk, ship pollution include the obligation to separate storage, processing and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste in ports and the acceptance of waste resulting from the exploitation of vessels. Each ship shall be obliged to keep a book on oils to which the records of the waste dump are entered and in the application of the existing approved by the competent authority. Any drop in water, oil use, oil and other waters are strictly prohibited. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, For their implementation, it is important to increase the efficiency of the inspection primarily of navigation safety through strengthening the administrative capacity of the sector. In valorising river transport, Croatia seeks to follow the concept of integrated approach, the impact of transport on the environment. Waterways become part of an integrated water management plan to preserve their biodiversity and ecological value. The Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, which Croatia has initiated, which is operationalized by the establishment of an international Commission for the Water Management of the Sava River Basin, regulates on these principles the issue of water management, the use of waterways for sailing and water protection. The Croatian port system includes four international ports: Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek and Vukovar and several current and future ports. The current situation marks the imbalance of the market, demand... goods on the Sava and Danube mainly due to different navigation conditions and technical and technological obsolescence and lack of capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia's river ports need to be quality and technologically refreshed in order to meet the existing and expected transport demand. In addition to modernising the basic port infrastructure, safety and surveillance systems in the port area should be improved. Luke must be trafficked with the main and road rail corridors in order to achieve better integration with the economic backdrop and create preconditions for the development of integrated transport. I must mention here an example of the Vukovar port which is closely connected to the economic zone of the city of Vukovar, which has 39 hectares. The area is about two-thirds already filled, and has a narrow link to the port, has a link to the railway and normal road traffic. I must point out that the Vukovar port last year had a load of millions of tonnes and now it is a project to expand the port to about 2.5 kilometers where it will be able to double its cargo and I must say that the port is very profitable and that the port is one of the best companies in Croatia and that it has the largest cargo in Croatia, given the employment that there are only 80 employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9083	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9084	It's a great honor for the Drava and the Sava knights, but the Danube is the only real international river, and that is to say, to support my colleague Mlinarić, especially in this section, which when he spoke about the safety of sailing along the rivers. It's completely wrong, and we keep talking about it here, when we just take the river as a waterway or worse as a drain canal. Well, of course, rivers need to sail and ships, but that can't only bring down the meaning of the existence of rivers. The risk of environmental impact as well as in the study itself is indicated, increasing with increased traffic. For Vukovar, it's interesting if we know that Lukoil took over, or bought an oil terminal at the Vukovar port. Does this mean that we must do everything possible to the ecological threat of the Danube River and what it provides to Vukovar and Vukovar in particular in terms of tourism, i.e. bathing sites on Vukedol and downstream, is certainly an important issue. I also note that the European Union is being mentioned here and asks us to develop a channel network. But the European Union is also asking us to protect our natural values, such as the Lonj Field. So no one here has said how the Lonjsko polje is, or on the list,... Protected areas, and Lonjsko polje if we continue to dig the Sava River and connect it with the Danube, the Lonjsko polje will evaporate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about the importance of the Vukovar port, it is the most important and should be developed together with other ports, but we are talking about the canal and we are unable to connect that Vukovar port with the normal railway line to Vinkovac. Let's first connect the Vukovar port with the double track towards Vinkovci and the border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then let's dig the canals afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9085	Let's get to the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9086	I'd just say that the werewolves' port has a fleet of twelve months. It is the only port that has the fleet all year round and I must note that we have the Vukovar-Vinkovci rail freight track normally but normally should be further strengthened, that it is not enough now in these capacities, that it is overcrowded and I think that in the new project we have an increase in track and for Vinkovci and connection with all of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9087	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9088	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. In any case, it can be said that the River Transport Strategy is being adopted for the first time because so far this problem has been addressed within the framework of the transport strategy and I certainly commend it because this is how exactly river transport will get more attention. Also commendation that the strategy is summed up, concise and, as some predecessors have said, is not the Russian type with countless pages, so it can easily be read. The reference that we have made to the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection is that there are no clear financial indicators, so we expect that, through the medium and short term plans that the ministry is developing, we will actually get more detailed and more accurate information about the individual projects that are planned within the strategy itself. What is important pointed out and refers precisely to this segment which my colleague Pancic was talking about, since I come from Sisak-Moslavina County we are very proud of our Lonsko field which is most important... Not only in Croatia, but in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From that point of view again and again, the area of Slavonia that has come to me has grown to my heart, I must say, the forests in Spačva are certain that I share the concerns of all those who think that perhaps we should conduct a wider discussion when it comes to the Danube-Sava channel. Namely, why am I saying that? I found data in your strategy that are certainly correct and it is that the commercial fleet in Croatia makes up 57 ships with a total capacity slightly higher than 44 thousand tonnes involved in international freight transport by an average age of 40 years. It is not enough to serve the current demand for transport to and from Croatian river ports so that domestic shipmen participate in the transport only with 20%, the rest are transported by foreign shipmen. So, what is my fundamental question if we go into such a major procedure to build a Danube-Sava channel which is of course multi-purpose, it is not only a waterway but it also has a role of draining and irrigation which surely the area of Slavonia and Posavina needs. On the other hand, the question arises as to who will sail the channel and what will be the long-term benefit. So I certainly am for strengthening the port in Sisak, for strengthening the port in Vukovar but it is also closer to me to focus on building a railway network between the Danube-Zagreba-Adriatic and thus to preserve the ecologically very valuable Croatian lowland forest but also on the other side if we look at a longer-term economically cheaper model. By building the Danube-Sava channel, it seems to me that long-term economic burdens will be created. According to the data I came up with, Croatia would have to pay only 5% of the interest for 600m euros for the cost of construction. These additional costs for the construction of the canal would already amount to 30m euros per year. Of course, we can't count on what Germany and Bavaria were counting on to get a interest-free loan, as was the case for the construction of the Rayna-Mayna-Dunav channel, and then before optimistically planned 7 million tonnes of 30 years after the opening, interest would amount to 4.20 euros for each transported ton, which is quite a serious figure. The water transport interest burden is already 0.07 euros per kilometer. So if we approach this problem in this way, then it is shown that transport by rail through Croatia is cheaper in any case than the planned channel. Moreover, maintenance costs themselves are also considerable and of course they would be higher than revenues. It's a bill that applies to other waterways, so it's not specific to this problem and it's similar with the Danube in Austria. If Croatia builds the Danube-Sava channel, what somehow causes me the biggest concern by respecting these arguments that I have said because they have been prepared by experts, my fear is so much that we are going to pawn something that is very valuable to our natural wealth, something that makes Croatia specific and not only in Europe, but also in the world our biological diversity in which we are fourth in Europe and that we are actually going to develop other ports, that we are going to develop ports in other countries from Brcko, Bosnian Ship, Bosnian Boat and send goods to the Mediterranean. In this case, Croatia will unfortunately suffer the negative consequences of the channel. At the same time for Vukovar, it will be a competitive habitat that will connect it to the Danube. At the level of the accumulated average of 50cm and the circulation of 50 000 to 100 thousand hectares of flood forest, the value of the Spacva-Bosut valley as a retention area is between 250m and 500m euros. The economic value of the forests is based on a joint study done by Croatian waters of 20 thousand euros per hectare, but only for wood reserves. In the Spačva-Bosut valley there are at least 50,000 hectares of the most valuable oak forests. The economic value of the forests that would be threatened by the channel is therefore around a billion euros. So it seems important to listen to all of us, of course, experts and politicians who logically approach this particular issue by estimating the arguments for but also considering arguments against the fact that some other studies that have been made, such as the Flood Study for the Middle Sava Pool and the Regional Tourist Plan for Posavina, show very clearly some different forms of preservation of such internationally significant areas but also the development of these areas and the use of their economic value. So I've been doing a little bit more polymizing around the Danube-Sava channel, although it's quite clear that this strategy is not cemented, but I would certainly appeal to you as a resolute ministry to open it and to invite all those who are interested and relevant to the table and to talk because there are obviously a lot of these issues that have not been answered so far. Otherwise, I think that the strategy for developing river transport is quite well done, and I certainly advocate that both short and medium-term action plans when you bring them to the Croatian Parliament for insight so that my representatives can somehow have an idea in which way, in which period and with how much money, of course, taxpayers and credit responsibilities, this strategy is meant to be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9089	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9090	Here's what I recommend to the majority party to listen to their coalition partner because everything that was said was true. I would especially like to highlight the price of the canal itself. Today we have heard that this would amount to about 5.6 billion kuna. Two years ago, I have an article in one week that says: "Sanader's new deal" and it's about the price of 4 and a half billion kuna channels, and it's said that it would be even cheaper because it would be using material for corridor 5C. These two years since the 5C corridor material was not used because it was known to be non-quality material, and the price has jumped from 4 and a half billion to some billion. So in one year, two, three or five, when a shovel is finally stabbed, who knows what price it's gonna cost? Like maybe Maximic Stadium. Because we have the most profitable projects that start and never end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9091	The answer to the replica... /The speaker is not different./... Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9092	So here is what my colleague Pancic and I generally agree on in this part when we talk about the need for environmental protection and sustainable development. What I can say is that the very coalition program of this government is based on these concepts. It would also be completely unserious and inadmissible in the 21st century to think differently. We have a beautiful and too valuable land to play with. It often seems to me that some others have to point to us because here is the Lonjsko polje discovered Martin Schneider who came from Germany, and then just recognized him by all those who live in the area and then was declared nature park and later entered all these international associations and I can proudly say that here we are now waiting for the status of the reserve was a sphere at UNESCO for Lonjsko polje, which I think is extremely important. Along with the Adriatic, which is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean, along with the stocks of drinking water we have and with which we can truly be proud with more than 15% of protected areas of Croatia, sure that we cannot gamble and play with some other concepts and I believe that here are the suggestions that could be heard about the adoption of a strategy for the development of river transport will be respected and that this concept of sustainable development will be put forward as a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9093	Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9094	Here's a thank you. Let me say a few more words about the Development Proposal, the proposal for a river transport development strategy in Croatia. In any case, it is good for the government to take care of all modes of traffic and try to develop those species that are due to different circumstances in considerable difficulty. One of them is river traffic. I must say, the most valuable part of this strategy is indeed a complete indication of all the problems that are present in river shipping and all that is associated with it. A small and outdated fleet, we've heard 50 ships with an average age of 40 is not a good basis you'll agree to build a strong river fleet. This should be added to the inadequate state of the port infrastructure, the insufficient professional staff and the rest of what is stated in this document. And instead of making priorities for available financial resources that are certainly not unlimited and setting reasonable deadlines for the implementation of strategies, unfortunately moves towards megalomania, which is nothing but the interest of certain lobbies. I'm sure even the authors of this war don't believe that this can be done in writing. I was born on the Danube once again, I know the value of this river as the only true international water river in Croatia as I also know the importance without the anger of any Vukovar port as a river port. On these assumptions, I believe further development of Croatian river transport should be based on these assumptions, with understandablely adequate valorisation according to the natural and hydrometeorological conditions of the two other rivers Drava and Sava and the river Osijek, Sisak and Slavonski Brod. Instead, the government uses part of this document as it seems to me to strengthen the position of those who would go into major infrastructure operations solely for their own profit. I mean the Danube-Sava channel whose construction is foreseen in this strategy as a solution to the current bad connection of waterways. Personally, I believe that the five, six billion kunas that he is supposed to be standing far more useful can be used for Slavonia and Baranja than to invest that money in infrastructure buildings that will never be paid off, provided they are built at all. The estimates suggest that traffic on that channel would become as cost-effective for more than half a century if it were then. Aware of this, his advocates have been increasingly emphasising his importance for irrigation lately. However, the irrigation project to remind you, I remind you, promised in 2004, and this is prescribed by our 2003 irrigation project from IPC Osijek and from which as we see ourselves there was nothing, not a single hectare of Slavonian countries can be done without such procedures in nature. Far cheaper and more environmentally acceptable. Take a map of the world from your youth means a few dozen years ago, say, today. You'll see that the Aara Lake of one of the world's largest lakes has lost 98% of its water surface. Instead of 65,000 square miles [65 thousand km] today, in 1991 there were a thousand and 500 km [500 km] square with a tendency to further decrease. And for what? Because of the politics of the Soviet state at the time who thought it could reroute large rivers without any consequences of nature. Sir Daria and Amu Daria were routed to the desert for irrigating cotton fields, and the lake is gone. It has been shown that great neems and geniuses have been in great error. Some delusions not so drastically true have we had in the not so long past. The only question is whether or not we're going to repeat them. The very idea of a channel is over two and a half centuries old. Neither the Austrian-Hungarian nor the former state dared to move into that realization. But in the last 10 years, at least 3 Croatian ministers have announced before or after the elections. Let's remind you. Jure Radic, Kalmeta and Kobankovic recently. It's interesting that while waiting for the first shovel to be stabbed, different machinations happen. Agricultural land owned by a state with the planned corridor in 2004 was sold to such private persons, it would be bought at 18 times higher prices last year. It would also be interesting to hear how much money has been spent so far on all the documentation and studies that have been commissioned. In doing so, it should be noted that the study on environmental impact is missing, and the study on economic viability is unclear. It is also interesting that this channel would benefit most from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. The government needs to make it clear whether we want to help the neighbouring country build its own ports on the right bank of Sava, where we need to know that all of this will be paid by Croatia and that we will contribute ourselves to the discharging of the Vukovar port which, in these circumstances without channels, has every assumption that it is developing into one of the largest European Danube ports. In addition, we will question the natural values of the Bosut forest and the Lonj field. The value of the Bosut forest in the part where the canal would be built according to the calculation of the Croatian forestry society is about 340m euros, while the value of the general user of the functions of these forests according to EU standards exceeds 10 billion euros. The forest profession clearly points to the dangers of changing groundwater flows that can have a devastating effect on the further survival of forests as it has occurred in other countries. But it looks like the construction lobby is stronger right now. According to world experts, due to the climate change that is in place and which have a particular impact on hydrological conditions, all major water surface procedures should be planned extremely carefully, and that is exactly what we are not doing. Therefore, the debate on the possible construction of this channel must be serious and must be attended by not formally but equally by all invited professions, not only builders or shipowners, but also by foresters, environmentalists and others. You must know exactly what Croatia gets and what it loses. We certainly don't need a new oblivion now in Slavonia. Croatia is a small country and must use its advantages very carefully. I therefore believe that in the next 10 years we have the task of strengthening the potential of Vukovar Airport with the reconstruction of the railway network. It wouldn't cost much to build a modern railway line from the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina to Vukovar instead of plans on the channel. Because if the Vukovar port had its strategic position all the time nothing changed to continue to develop it. And then, in these circumstances, the river fleet needs to be gradually developed. So, I support the development of Croatian river shipping and port infrastructure, with the demand for additional efforts to protect nature, because rivers must not, as I said, be seen as waterways and wastewater drains as some understand them. And for this reason, I hope that in Croatia, the Croatian Parliament will begin the right debate on all economic and environmental challenges possible to build the Danube-Sava channel. And this very channel, in our conditions of reckless spending of taxpayers' money, could become literally a bottomless hole. Because of these doubts, I personally cannot support this proposal for a strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9095	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9096	Dear colleague, you have warned very well that Spačvan forest will likely be destroyed if this Danube channel is realized – Sava, which will be a very big damage, given that the Spachvan forest is the largest oak oak forest in all of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9097	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9098	... Yeah, why the anger when I mention the Soviets because I see that same infrastructure building plan exists today. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] So, they played a little bit, and two, one of the world's largest rivers, they turned to the desert. The lake's dry. A vast sea fleet, the fishing fleet has been destroyed. They had to go to the Baltic Sea and today they don't have a lake, and they don't even have cotton fields because the diseases rule there. Yesterday we took down the Obrovac, or tower. Which is why now we're building a new oblivion with inexplicable environmental consequences. Only now is the recognized interest of a construction lobby that would, since it was dug up. But fortunately, Mr. Radic has gone to Russia, so he may be there long enough to build all those hydropowers so he doesn't have to stick a shovel here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9099	There's always the other side of the medal, as far as the Dunav-Sav channel and the studios are concerned. But I won't debate it because I have my own. I can do it from the bench. Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9100	Vice President, thank you very much, Secretary of State, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me get involved in this debate with several findings and possible questions. These materials found that there are 804 km of waterways of which 540 are international and 265 approximately state and interstate. My findings, that is, my question is about this material. International ports are listed. It's Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek and Vukovar. But it's not because it's a strategy proposal for the next 10 years. But no data were given on quantified, no quantified traffic in those rivers, not in tonnes, and at least, which would be good for us to give that information and then to see in that strategy what the chances for each other are for the third and fourth ports. That's one moment I don't think is negligible. We've heard about the Vukovar port here, but we don't know about those other ports. Furthermore, I think that in these materials very little has been said about docks, just one finding, that they will be built, not as many of them as there are, not really what is planned here. I must point this out for the reason that for the port in Batina, it is the first port on the Danube, at the entrance from the north to our country, a certain project documentation has been made with the help of the county, but the local community of course has no opportunity to do anything here, probably as for other ports and it would be good to do something in this respect and here in this section at the port has been established in the implementation measures in the area of infrastructure, the last point is to define the support programme for the counties for the development of river transport. I don't know what time, when it's going to be defined because building a dock is only objectively possible to imagine if the counties get some funding, and they transform it again to local communities or to this area. I must stress this for the reason that on a daily basis, I am often present in the Danube, just as in Batina, passing beautiful boats travel, tourist and where tourists from these boats can see wine roads and basements in Batina, but they can't get a glass of wine to drink because there is no port, they have to go to Mohaća, it's upriver 10 kilometers, so to get there by bus somehow etc. We are very interested in these ports and this tourist traffic. As for this channel that's been talked about here, I have no doubt about these materials, or the finding in the chapter of the market where it literally stands next. The increase in the share of river transport in the market for transport services can be achieved if this sector is integrated into an intermodal transport network, which is a prerequisite for raising the level of reliability of water flows, which is quite understandable and building the largest infrastructure project in the river transport of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. I am convinced that there must have been something done a year ago, a year and a half ago, an article appeared in Slavonia's Voice where at that time the price of agricultural areas at which it was redeemed for the corridor of that channel to double, triple the amount of traffic, I don't know how much it was realized, but from that I conclude that there is quite concrete something done and it would have been very good and instructed to get one quality information with more aspects and protection of the environment is all about what the colleague said earlier. That's it. And finally, I would say another finding, and given that this is about the strategy by 2018, to be instructed to evaluate the moment and initiate it, it is certainly a matter of the state summit to resolve the fate of this Danube, in other words, to say the border is, the Danube flows a little bit across our territory and moves to Vojvodina, and then again to our territory, and again to Vojvodina. I think you know what the border looks like and from river traffic, with security and with many other aspects would be instructed to initiate and resolve because people living there for the time being, thank God there would be no specific problems, but obviously that is not resolved and should be initiated not to wait exactly 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9101	Thank you. Two replicas. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9102	A fellow representative said that the material did not indicate what ports in the Republic of Croatia were in addition to those of the main ports that were spoken of. In fact, on a map that is slightly impervious and technically not good, it is evident that the ports in Batina, Belište, Aljmash and Ilock. So, exactly in what you said to the tourist resorts where Slavonia can really offer with what's being solved. The second is the quote you said you didn't know at what ransom price the square meter of the country bought. 18 kuna, Mr. Shoya...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9103	And Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9104	... per square metre.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9105	My colleague, you said that something was already working on that channel in terms of the purchase of land, hoping you'd get the right information. I hope that information will follow when we truly discuss this project. But I have something that can be a good basis, that the Government already knows what, with which parliamentary representatives have been prepared to come, and then it's a catastran plan where exactly certain municipalities between Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County, where exactly the route of that channel was drawn, and then the land that was state-owned, you see this orange paint was painted in 2004 for private persons so that in 2007, the ministry of these same private faces would buy that land, it was reported through the media by not knowing how many times higher prices. So is this how you seriously run state policy when one ministry says the channel is going to be built, and then the same country from that corridor, that channel sells to private people, and then buys the same land. It's not a serious policy, we know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9106	Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9107	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So when this proposal is read this strategy for the development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia, there are no major objections. But of all these troubled trees, however, I don't think we see one forest, and it's already mentioned here, and that's Spačva forest. She's the only one who's still stopped... The shell oak community in Europe, especially in this way, is not the only one but in this large complex of more than 40,000 hectares and its annual growth is about, colleagues have already said what its value is, and I will only mention that its annual growth is about 300 thousand cubic metres and I will say that this is the value of that wood mass that it is, so it just increases about 13 million euros. [[You don't understand.]] The annual general value of this forest is around 420m euros a year, which is certainly large, large figures. Its survival of this forest depends primarily on the regime of rainwater, groundwater and the regime flooded. According to the forest profession, any reduction in the average level of groundwater by 25 centimetres causes the drying of the main species of trees in this case, as the main species in the sparse pool, and the reduction of groundwater levels by more than 50 centimetres causes a change in the plant community, so if this happens it will remain, and there is a danger of the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, we will be left with the most likely predators of the famous Slavonian oak tree will probably remain only archived photos from the beginning of the 20th century, some bottle of cognac or barca in France because most of the shrubs are exported at the end of the 19th century in France or old and the door of the village barn or cut parquette that we will have to replace with some plastic carpentry or laminates. Flooding and savoury of floodwaters causes wetting, and the result of changes of plant communities towards johams and willows, or non-quality species. Excession studies in a positive and negative ecological sense in the area of the spa pool have not yet been investigated, but numerous forest experts and other experts have been working on the Danube-Sava channel theme among other things. Prpić, Seletković, Tikvić, Šnyder, Jakobi, Mikushka and others. The Croatian forestry society in which about a thousand forestry engineers have reached its conclusion, so let me read it here and read it, which says this: A reliable information about the impact of the Danube-Sava channel on the forests of the Upper Bosut and the Spačva forest can be obtained through long-term observation of the levels of underground waters both in the two mentioned forest areas and in the space between the route of the planned channel and the Spačva forest. Piesomers should be set up according to the principles of forest biometrics in different habitats of the relevant forest eco-systems and different structural characteristics according to age classes. Calculating the installation of a piesomer of observation should take 30 years to indicate that the study in the swelling of the Danube-Sava channel is complete and the positive cannot be accepted by forest sciences and professions. The first more reliable data on groundwater is expected around 2028 because in 1998, a network of pisemometer networks is updated and we will only be able to obtain concrete information about the level of groundwater in this area in those 30 years. Channel Dunav-Sava is actually a blind hose of the Rayna Mayan channel which ends on Savi and could be extended to Sisak or possibly to Rugvica below Zagreb, with the Sava being made a waterway for ships up to 4 thousand tons of loads with a cost that certainly requires funds that are not significantly less than the cost of construction of the canal. Behind the arrival of the cargo in Sisak or Rugvic, he must reload himself into a truck or railway, if we want him to arrive in Rijeka. By channelling the Sava there is questionable nature and survival of Nature Park Lonjsko polje, but also all other natural treasures significant to its surroundings. We believe that the only real solution and great financial gain for the Republic of Croatia is giving up the Danube-Sava channel and ensuring good rail transport from the Vukovar port to Rijeka. The funds provided for by the Danube-Sava channel from the Croatian budget would be very cost-effective to invest in the cluster processing of shell oaks with the aim of producing high price furniture in the world. It would certainly raise the quality of the life of the Slavonian population. The Drava River is also intended to protect birds and protect European black poplars from spring to mouth, so that its regulation in the waterways and due to the neighbouring Republic of Hungary is questionable. From the above mentioned many times, let us think about the justification of the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, let us ask the foresters, environmentalists, businessmen, but also educate the citizens, review international contracts, review costs. I am convinced that by speeding up the modernisation of existing railway corridors, by modernising existing river ports, we will achieve the same economic effect without the ecological threat of the Sava and Drava River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9108	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9109	I think that when we talk about the Danube-Sava channel in general and we talk about the destruction of the spa forest and in general I think about other forests and so, it's a little bit about how much biodiversity that is just related to such eco-systems would actually be affected, and it's one of the greatest values that Croatia has as a country. And I think that apart from the meaning of preserving these forests, we should also think about preserving and plant diversity, which is the exceptional value of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9110	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Shima Djurdjevic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9111	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The independence of the Republic of Croatia has come about, among other things, with major obligations to build road infrastructure, railway infrastructure, as well as improving the situation in the infrastructure of river transport. The details of this are presented in the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, in which the overall development of the transport system of Croatia is set to be a function of all kinds of development, particularly of economic, social and cultural development. Among other facts is the geotransport position of the Podunavlje-Jadran corridor where Croatia would be economically connected with the countries of Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and our ports of Rijeka and Ploče. The total length of waterways on Croatian rivers is 804km. I'd say a little bit more, but I wouldn't repeat what my dear colleagues and proposings pointed out about the material, I'd say something about the Sava River. The Sava River towards water wealth is the eighth river in Europe. The Sava Valley is the tenth European Transport Corridor. In the early 1980s, transport to Sava amounted to about 9.5 million tonnes mainly of gravel, sand, construction material, solid fuels, oil and oil products to reduce traffic to 5.7 million tonnes by gentlemen of 1990 and the war brought its own that the ports of Sava in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have reduced their cargo or total traffic below a million tonnes per year. Of course, it is quite the opposite of trends in other parts of Europe where inland waterways transport is shown the continuity of growth rather than reductions in tones and overloads and total traffic. Changes in the direction of use of these roads need to be made and as my predecessors have said, this study should also say this programme by 2018 that the Sava River should be watered for 300 days a year with a gas of 2 and a half metres, which is of course necessary in part of the Drava River. It should not even be mentioned that this segment, to raise the economy of all Slavonian counties through which waterways would be cleaned and certainly within the zone of port administrations such as in Slavonski Brod 82 hectares, all property-legal relations have been resolved and we expect that employment will eventually take place at the beginning of around 540 to 550 employees and eventually up to a thousand 200 jobs, which would allow for a significant reduction of the unemployed in Brod-Posavina County. Ladies and gentlemen, the port of Slavonski Brod is connected by rail track and certain works on dock 4 as far as the cargo is concerned have already been done. It is necessary in that segment to connect so-called. Eastbound road with the Whites industrial zone to deploy truck transport to the centre or town of Slavonski Brod. Because of all this, I will, of course, support the proposal for a strategy to develop river transport in the Republic of Croatia in 2008-2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9112	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9113	Thank you. You're absolutely right, colleague, when you say you need to invest significant financial resources to make all of this real and that's the problem. All financial resources will invest Croatia which is not disputed for the channel he is on our territory, but in order for the channel to be operational, in order to give results that are expected of him whether we are satisfied with him or not, whether it will be 50 or 60 years from now we must arrange the waterway of the Sava River and the Sava River is a border river. This means that, regardless of the Sava commission, Croatia will invest in the situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to make the Sava water as you said 300 days a year for the canal, on the one hand for the canal. But at the same time we Republika Srpska and the Federation, in particular Republika Srpska, let's look at it that way, give an open waterway to Belgrade. She'll be able to use the Danube-Sava channel, too, okay. But it can also benefit a normal Sava to another state that will also not invest a kuna in the whole project. And that's what bothers me the most. We will invest money and it is unclear what benefits we will have and it is quite clear that other countries will benefit directly from all this, and that is why it is necessary for the government to come out with a serious study on economic viability. And I believe when there's a debate on this particular subject that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9114	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9115	Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. And it's not like I'd entertain you, but there's an interesting anecdote or a joke. He says, "There are two friends sitting, and one of them says, "What would I like to burn?"and this one says, "Well, burn."But I don't have a cigarette," and this one gave him a cigarette. And he says, "What are you waiting for?", says "I don't have a lighter."and this one gives him a lighter and says, "And what do you have from that smoking kit?". He says, "I'm the only one with a good will." I didn't say this so that God wouldn't give it up to underestimate the strategy that is ahead of us or to make fun of it, but rather to stress in some way the good will that I recognize in this document and which I certainly need to support. But it is obvious, as it has been said many times in the debate today, that such a document which is a question of whether it is a strategy and whether it meets all the criteria that serious strategies need to have must be supported by documents in which, in a very precise way, the words will be expressed and what they want to do, in which dynamics they want to do so, and how much they cost. Only when we have that kind of document will we be able to think of this document as a first step or by showing good faith that in a project of really great importance for this country, it will go into realisation. In fact, looking at the document, I've assessed the best part of this particular causal link between the problems identified in internal navigation. It is already a big step to be fully aware of the limitations or weaknesses or difficulties that we encounter at this time, before we even go into such a single project. The fact is, there's a lot of things that can be done without a lot of money. For example, the non-compliance of the rules we have in addition to the institutional assumptions that the secretary of state has spoken of today is also possible to resolve without any large or serious investment. But the fact is that in Croatia it is yet to begin, as it does in one place, to warn more seriously what this river traffic for Croatia can mean, not only in the transport sense, but what synergy effects, which are effects that can contribute not only to the overall economic well-being, but also to pull back and solve a whole series of regional inequalities that can help and preserve the environment in the end as much as traffic is always problematic when it comes to the environment, but, well, a few years ago, I had the opportunity to look at the River Rajna which looks like a railway track or where constantly huge ships pass and who say today is cleaner incomparable than it was 40 or 50 years ago. So, in that ecological sense, it also has great significance. Which is what I think when we look at it as a minus other than these well-recognized problems, which seems to me would certainly be a good thing to do. First, two things to separate in terms of the size of financial investments when it comes to a river transport development project in the Republic of Croatia. A channel project that the secretary of state has now told us needs to be measured somewhere at 5 and a half billion kuna. That's about four times what's planned for everything else that's foreseen in the strategy. It means a complete four-arm arrangement, a waterway cleanup and everything. So that disproportionateness already says that things should be observed dynamically, but perhaps in a strategic sense as two different but connected projects. I don't mind the channels, but I think we're gonna need him, but now if you have 57 ships, then the channel actually does, even though he has his synergy effects, it doesn't really need him right now. It can be done by someone else who will come after us, in 10 years and so on. So, what would I recommend? Certainly these billions and a half of kunas planned for the port's arrangements are to leave immediately, but in such a way that these ports are parallel to the rest of the infrastructure road, rail first of all and between each other. I have the city of Sisak in front of me and in front of my eyes. So at this point, it's probably the port that has all the river ports, and it used to have this potential, as I remember behind the Rijeka port, was the most, the port with the largest cargo loader counting both sea and river ports in the area of the former Yugoslavia, at least in Croatia, if I think Belgrade had something more. So this potential, which was recognised 100 years ago, when the first railway route was built from Zidanog Most, via Zagreb to Sisak, says that it is very much in times when energy is so expensive, when transport is expensive, when there are all these strong ecological and economic reasons already mentioned today, that this port should start to be activated immediately. I am not saying this pro domo sua because I am from Sisak, but with the hinterland, with the city of Zagreb, with the industrial pool that we have here is a real sin that the port of mammals actually stands closed and is currently used exclusively for the transport or transport of oil. It's just a big shame for the whole country, the whole community. In order for this port to be in its full function, of course it will be about 4 kilometers, 4 and a half kilometers to the road connection, the Zagreb-Mosčenica highway, has 18 kilometers already built good and quality roads on the Zagreb-Lipovac highway, then the port is in its full function if these important assumptions are provided. So, I think if we can't single out 7 or 8 billion even though we don't know what period this is that it's certainly possible and that it would be desirable in these documents to make priorities and act so that as I think someone warned today, we can make another 50 or 100 ships, but if we don't have a Sava that's been cleaned out then we don't need a channel, etc. So there's a order of moves, first clean up that waterway and immediately move on to the best possible way to solve the whole of these, realising the whole of these possibilities that our four selected ports certainly have. Here, I hope you don't mind that joke, but I think it's a good, better, first step towards solving, serious problem solving, and in that sense we expect further documents that will develop this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9116	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9117	Since I spoke on behalf of the club, I'm about to be something shorter. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. There are many reasons why river transport is very important for the Republic of Croatia, we have heard it here many times today and all speakers have generally agreed. Just discussing this point, I have pointed out as I repeat, many others, that this is primarily important for us in Eastern Slavonia, or eastern Croatia, especially Slavonia, and here is my colleague, Shoja, who also spoke about the Baranja part. This importance is pointed out by the fact that the river ports in Slavonia, in particular the port of Vukovar and the port "Transit" Osijek are business entities that are ahead of their counties and which as such represent a cornerstone of the economic development of the area in which it is located. River transport is, as we have heard so many times without competition, the cheapest traffic and all those who have a chance and opportunity to develop such a form of traffic never miss it. In this respect, the city of Vukovar has an exceptional position, since it is located on a key road that develops river transport in Europe, it is the Danube River and it is therefore extremely important that the port of Vukovar but also the hinterland prepares and arranges for that part of that type of traffic to be developed up to maximum possibilities. Before the war, it is known that the port of Vukovar was a dominant port that served in a transport sense that part of northern Bosnia mainly Željezar Zenica, Tuzlana pool and so on and primarily served to transport scattered goods from one side of the iron mine, on the other hand, coal exports. Because of the severe destruction in the Homeland War after a peaceful reintegration, it has been known that it has taken a long time and it has taken a lot of resources to return to the situation in which it is now and with the perspective it now has, let's hope that it will come to what it has predisposition for, and that is to be the most qualitative and strongest port in the Danube, Europe. According to some information, it seems to me that the port of Vukovar could soon have a new job related to that part of northern Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps a small Zenica was moved northly. Since certain information suggests that Željezara Zenica could soon begin work, it is likely that there will be work for the port of Vukovar in this context. Other river ports such as Osijek and Slavonski Brod also have their big development plans, but I must honestly say and agree with my colleague Pancic that Vukovar is much, much better in this regard, and that the potential of Vukovar is much greater. Namely, neither Drava nor Sava are anywhere near the traffic importance of the Danube, not to mention what we mentioned earlier that they are not even water rivers. On the other hand, Vukovar is said in the middle of this largest European water river, so it makes it extremely favourable and at the place of Vukovar Danube reaches a width of about 1000 metres. The natural flow of the river is also such that, due to the change of direction, it has created such favourable conditions that it is possible to build a port, a port for extremely large transport ships. In her debate, Honorable representative Chuhnil also mentioned the master plan for the development of the Vukovar port, which I said Vukovar could become the most important river port in the Danube. Of course, implementation of such plans requires both large funds and large investments, but unfortunately there is no investment nor development, so I believe that the Croatian government will have enough hearing in this regard. The equipment of the port terminals for the purpose of increasing capacity is of priority not only for the city of Vukovar and for the development of the port but also for the hinterland behind Vukovar. In this regard, I must say that I agree extremely with my colleague Pancic, who spoke about the railway connection between Vukovar and the city of Vukovar and the city of Vinkovci. And in that part, I would support what he was saying when he said we could connect the two-way line of Vukovar to the Vinkovci. That's true, and I would say and let's use Vinkovci's Rural Station along the way as the untapped capacity that was at the time of the former state the largest Randry Station in Yugoslavia, then in the former state. Let's connect this transport corridor to the seventh Danube pan-European with the 10th of this long-term, which goes from Salzburg to Thessaloniki and also to the 5.B corridor that goes from Budapest to Rijeka and thus close a circle and connect the freight transport from Danube to the Adriatic. That's what we're thinking here. For such a way of connecting freight transport, we have all predispositions, and I would say that financial investments are also significantly lower. There are a few more problems here that need to be acted on right now. The problem of using expensive fuel has been pointed out. Namely, foreign shipmen for known reasons and these are certain benefits in their countries use fuel that is twice as cheap as what our shipers use. Therefore, we should work as quickly as possible to allow our river boaters to use blue elevators to be more competitive on the market for foreign boaters, so perhaps that 80:20 ratio would change not only because of the lack of transport vessels but also because of these things. And I'm just going to have one more fact that's been pointed out here. It is from counterpart Bora Grubisic, speaking about the education of ship's experts he pointed to one thing that is really interesting. He pointed to the existence of the Faculty of Engineering in Slavonski Brod. I'd do it. I would say that in Slavonia there are several technical and related colleges that are able to present in the educational part the part of the program needed for the education of ship experts except, therefore, the Faculty of Engineering in Slavonski Brod we and Elektrotechnics in Osijek. We also have agricultural machinery in Osijek and Vinkovci and so on. It's all a related area that he could educate. Not to say that in some plans for the development of higher education in Vukovar-Srijem County, a professional study of the Transport Faculty was also drawn up that can be translated very easily into what we were talking about here. For this there are both educational capacities and experts and all that is needed to transfer it to Slavonia. Why am I talking about this? Because it would be another element that would circle the entire picture of the river's promotion, the development of the river traffic that I said about Slavonia the most important. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9118	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9119	Thank you. When you spoke of the necessity of better integration, the railway connection between Vukovar as one strong port centre not only of Croatia but also of Vinkovac as one of the most important railway hubs in Croatia and in this part of Europe, most of the parliamentary representatives, including members of the assembly majority, do not know that the last train that was transported from Zagreb to Vukovar, but to the Vukovar railway station was transported 10 years ago when the late President Tudjman went after a peaceful reintegration into Vukovar by train and came to this railway station that was in the Vukovar port plane. From then on, the train from Zagreb has never come to this place. A few months ago, railway transport started, i.e. passenger traffic from Zagreb to Vukovar, which is what it says. But it's not to Vukovar. It's to Bor's settlement. So, to me as a Vukovar if I want to get to Vukovar, I don't care if I come down to the Vinkovci or go to Bor's settlement. And the seriousness of the government would mean that in about four or five years, she would draw as a goal a complete editing of this railway route for full traffic to Vukovar port.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9120	Thank you. Another replica, Mr Boris Grubisic. ... Pero, I recommend you go to your colleagues and clear it up, and now Mr. Boro Grubisic. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9121	It's best that you from Vukovar meet in Vukovar, then discuss the port, Vukovar and the rest. In fact, I was just about to talk about it that each of these ports that the ministry predicted had its own competitive advantages. There's no need for a colleague here, Heffer or Pancic, etc. And you, Mr. Mlinaric, are making some kind of argument at the expense of your own, and I don't even know how to ignore the others. I'm not like that, and I don't want to think about it that way. These are Slavonic ports. This is actually a strategy for in some way for our Slavonic cloth that we finally got from Croatia maybe. Maybe, I'm saying maybe, maybe not, like that river cloth, and that's why if we talk about ports, each of them has their own competitive advantages. Let's talk about the boat. Corridor 10, corridor 5C, corridor “Bosna door” etc. So, I won't keep counting because I don't have much time. But there's no need to be here about saying I won't say we're trying. If it is in the development strategy they are envisaged equally, so the development of all ports, all ports and investment therefore funds in their construction. Here, thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9122	Thank you. Mr. Goran Heffer's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9123	First of all, I apologize to my colleague Grubisic if he felt there was something wrong with it. Namely, as a former ship's student, I, according to Slavonski Brod, have an extraordinary amount of feelings and would be pleased to have all ports and, of course, Slavonsko-Brodska be developed. I was just talking about the thing with Sava being problematic. So that's the river we've not heard enough about here, because it's also waterproof. But okay. And my colleague Grubisic, I hope that we will all experience that all of our Slavonian ports, and I would say to my colleagues Vidovic, because it is also such a lowly part that we experience being developed at least as the port of Rijeka so that we can all celebrate together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9124	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic could only be on behalf of the club in five minutes. Otherwise, there's no business opportunity. Okay. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9125	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, in the end, I will just look back at a few things that have been presented in the debate, and I will announce what follows after adoption if this House adopts such a strategy, which is the next steps both in the Parliament and at the level of the government, i.e. the resolution ministry. So there were words that the strategy itself was too narrow, too short, that there was not enough data, so it would be good if it were more extensive. We've been thinking about it in the government, and I've got two other versions of that strategy with a huge number of data that we could give you to the council representatives. But it seems to us, therefore, that with that problem tree and all those short allegations that the state of river transport in the Republic of Croatia is clearly indicated enough. But also, I have to mention, many times today, they linked to the strategy of the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia and mentioned it that was adopted in 1999. This strategy, which is still a valid document, was expressed on 89 pages for all types of Croatian traffic, and of these 89 pages, I think 15 pages were images, graphs, etc. Thus, neither the basic strategy we are attached to nor the river traffic said a word more. However, it was much shorter and less clear and normal, but it touched less river traffic. So, not then in '99. The year the strategy was first adopted, it was almost identical. And I wanted to say that this strategy, which I didn't even say in the introduction, worked with French consultants and which is based on yards, so this action plan of the European Commission is almost identically addressing certain topics and objectives and measures that we have touched in the study itself. Therefore, I think that the main problems of river transport are indicated, that the main objectives are stated and that we have put measures in place. Now, I agree with all those who say that it is difficult to discuss the implementation of these measures when they are not financially explained or timed. However, I am, this is the law that we adopted last year, said how and how all the inactivity that will result from this strategy will be very detailed. And we did. There are a medium-term programme, a five-year programme for the development of inland waterways and the development of ports on inland waterways on rivers. Therefore, this will be, these two documents will be completed by the end of June, we need to bring some problems into line with the finance ministry and it is quite clear, so through the guidelines this Parliament has adopted for the next 3 years, including the eighth and all our predictions, we need to comply with the Ministry of Finance, depending on the deficits of the state budget, depending on all these plans. So these plans can start in 2009, they can in 2011, they can in 2013. It is clear that priorities will be taken into account, but when it comes to inland waterway ports, they are absolute in priority. When I talk about any shifts, then I primarily think about editing or building a channel, so we can talk about it, about its dynamics. But let me say one more thing that's very important. So when we talk about river transport, then we need to be aware of where we were a few years ago in river transport. Perhaps the most picturesque will present the port of Slavonski Brod. Luka Slavonski Brod is on Sava, a river that is devastated, abandoned, which is 30% of the time a year has a reduced gauze, which is part of the river 2nd class of airworthiness and at the mouth of Drina in the Sava and Shamački setor, so a river that makes it impossible for quality traffic. On the other hand, the port of Slavonski Brod is abandoned without adequate infrastructure, without the appropriate vertical coast which we have in the meantime solved, 120 meters of vertical coast made in Slavonski Brod probably the best at this time vertical coast of all river ports in Croatia. However, as we have declared that the entire area of each port will be and must be owned by the Republic of Croatia, except for that water goods located right next to the river, 85% of the property was unsolved at Slavonski Brod. In order to be able to approach the concession of this area, we had to buy the entire land to be owned by the Republic of Croatia and only then go to the concession and Mr Grubisic mentioned earlier that a month or two ago it was in Slavonski Brod and presented a study of the construction of biodiesel factories, and it was precisely for this to be done that the issue of property-legal relations at the port itself should be resolved. Therefore, it is not simple, other than to say how much we want to invest in ports, to make a series of assumptions about property-legal relations to solve the waterway, to bring plans and all that in itself, is clearly imposed, and when we know what the problems were, for example, I said in Slavonski Brod, then it is clear to all of us. And I'm going to say very briefly about the channel because there will be words about it very much in the next debate when the spatial plan of the canal comes to Parliament. So I had no intention of turning today's debate into a plea for or against the channels. I agree, and Miss Petir also mentioned today the need to think about the channel, also to think about protecting the environment, protecting the space, protecting the forest and everything that can be obtained by building the canal. For me personally, and I think for all of us the biggest challenge of the 21st century is to establish a balance between economic development and environmental protection. We have solved this in Croatia through a syntagm of sustainable development and this sustainable development is what I believe to be the most important point in which we must determine ourselves when it comes to the channel. At this point, a spatial channel plan is being developed, a study of environmental impacts. When the environmental impact study is completed, it will probably, I'm sure, because it's also the Parliament's obligation to bring in a spatial channel plan, it will be here in Parliament. I know that two years ago, and the council on spatial planning, which was headed by Mr. Jerko Roshin at the time, visited the location, explained the problem of the canal, and that in principle, therefore, in the section relating to the need for the construction of the canal, it had been about his justification for a long time. However, all aspects and those related to the protection of the environment and those related to irrigation and those relating to the problems of the Spačvan forest should be considered, hence all these problems affecting the canal will be on the table, on the benches with arguments for or against and clear that the Parliament will then decide on the fate of the spatial plan, and hence also on the fate of the canal. Therefore, there will be time, and there will be debates to determine the channel. We in the ministry hold that the channel, because we are the Ministry of Transport and the navigation of the great possibility of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the transport aspect of the tenants. Whether he is enough or not will be determined together, clearly both in the Parliament and through all those discussions whether, therefore, this aspect is crucial in its construction. There will be, as I have said more words through the adoption of a spatial plan, namely through a debate that will follow through other people's impact on the environment and through the adoption of a spatial plan, and knows that two discussions have already been held. One in Vukovar, the other in Slavonski Brod when it came to the construction of the canal. So here I am thanking you for the support you have given, I am aware that perhaps the strategy itself, that it has been financially supported, is even stronger, but I repeat that the Law on navigation and inland waters alone enables us and says that through the medium-term development programmes and ports and inland waterways in the next 5 years we will be able to look closely at all those aspects of the waterway and waterways and ports. We, that's the legal possibility we used and we keep the strategy as it is. the truth is also a good basis for the restoration of river transport in the Republic of Croatia, and we know because we have heard this many times today in the debate that river transport is one of the most economical with maritime transport, so the most economical, profitable kind of traffic, and in any case it is the most environmentally acceptable. For this reason, I think that here today, the Republic of Croatia is at the right moment considering further development of river transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9126	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. 11, Proposal for a River Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia 2008-2018? The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Mirela Holy, a joint proposal by MP Mirel Holy, Vlatko Podnar and Ivica Pančić. I'm asking the proposer's representative to come forward. Minister, Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta first. Mrs. Mirela Holy, the first of her amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We do not accept Mrs Holly's first amendment, but we are proposing the following sentence, which is practically the same and the same as what the representative lady wanted to say is encouraged, and that is, we suggest: in this sense, the long-term objective of integration of the network within the combined transport corridor of the Podunavlje-Jadran is set. Here, it seems to me that we have achieved the meaning that the promoter wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9129	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9130	I accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9131	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of this expression by Mr. Minister, an integral part of the law. And the second amendment, Mrs. Holly, Mr. Podnar and Pancic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9132	We do not accept this amendment for the reason that in the procedure, a new Impact Study has already been adopted on the environment of the Danube-Sava project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9133	Mrs. Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9134	I will ask to vote on this amendment because Mr. Bacic, when he spoke the final word, said that the Environmental Impact Study would just be made. Well, now I don't know if it's made or not, because it's '98. years shouldn't be worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9135	Thank you. Who is for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment two, same MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9136	The amendment two cannot be accepted because I say that the applicant in the strategy stated that this is exactly what the conditions for increasing the share of river transport in the market for transport services are, and to note as in the above response to the amendment, one that is in the process of adopting a new environmental impact study.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9137	Thank you. Mrs. Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9138	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9139	I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment three, same MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9140	We don't accept this amendment because I don't think there's any need to accept it because we in the strategy have outlined that strategic goal. It is raising the waterway of the Sava River to Sisak to the fourth class and this goal is clearly intended and realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9141	Thank you. Mrs. Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9142	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9143	Thank you. Who is for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment four, same MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9144	And Amendment Four is not accepted because this measure is held justified and the project itself is not based on an environmental impact study for the '98 Danube-Sava project. because as I said before in the procedure of adopting a new environmental impact study for this project of construction of the Danube-Sava channel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9145	Mrs. Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9146	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9147	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the minister. Please include and vote the proposal for a river transport strategy in the Republic of Croatia together with this modified amendment that the government has accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The strategy's proposal was accepted by a majority of 102 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 6 against. We move to - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2007. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is also proposing. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science in Culture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Secretary-General Slavko Cvetnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9149	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You will allow me to brief you on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the past 2007. My report will be really short, and I don't think there's a need anymore, because I hope you've received the summer paper of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, a big book that the Academy issues every year for the performance of work in the past year, and I hope you've received a summary of about 15 text cards on this paper. So let me introduce you to this brief report of mine. On 31 December 2007. The Croatian Academy had 146 regular members, 133 correspondence members and 87 co-workers. The total academy had 366 members last year in all categories of membership, which is a moderate reduction compared to 2006. In the past year, the academy held two regular congregations and a formal session. In March, regular assembly adopted and submitted reports on the entire work of the Academy and the final account of the Academy for 2006, while the December regular assembly adopted plans and work programmes and the financial plan of the Academy for this year, for 2008. The Academy's annual session was held on 27 April 2007 on the occasion of the Academy's day. On this occasion there are ten scientists and artists dedicated to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts for 2006. In addition to the mentioned assemblies and the ceremony, several annual election assemblies of academic scientific councils were held, and the Croatian Academy held 48 scientific meetings during 2007, 28 lectures of prominent foreign and domestic scientists and artists, 18 book presentations, 39 exhibitions and five commemorations of the deceased members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The academy's presidency held nine regular sessions over the past year. At the meetings, members of the Bureau discussed and reached conclusions from their respective responsibilities, focused in particular on preparations for the congregations and the ceremony at the occasion of the Croatian Academy's day. The Bureau held meetings with appropriate decisions on the following. On the establishment of a Committee on Planning for the Development of Scientific Electronic Infrastructure. About accepting the final version of the Croatian text with the conclusion that this text is translated into five foreign languages and published in a special book. On supporting the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Science Foundation. Furthermore, the adoption of the conclusions for the joint thematic meetings of the Scientific Councils on Natural Science Research of the Adriatic and Nature Protection was discussed. About the course of work on the renovation of the building of the former chemical laboratory in Strossmayer Square 14, and its conversion to the Croatian Academy library. About the organisation of the 300th anniversary of Ruđer Bošković's birth which will take place in 2011 on the occasion of which the presidency will propose to the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia the establishment of a state committee to mark the anniversary. About the lecture of Israel's Deputy Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize winner, Mr. Shimun Peres, at the Croatian Academy. About the award of the Croatian Academy for the highest scientific artistic achievements in the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Notice of a parliamentary debate on the Croatian Academy's report on work in 2006 in which the work of the Croatian Academy was highly assessed as well as the fact that last year every representative was also delivered Letopis for 2006. The Bureau also supports the efforts of the Academy's administration so far to keep its account in the business bank. The participation of members of the Croatian Academy's presidency was discussed to mark the 480th anniversary of the meeting of the Croatian National Assembly in Cettingrad on 15 June 2007. The text "The position of Croatian language and European integration" was accepted, with the assessment that the position of Croatian language in European integration is becoming increasingly difficult, in its legal status as a language and as a name. With that representation, it supported the administration's efforts and was pleased to receive information from the budget that the Academy will provide additional funds of 8.4 million kuna intended to complete construction and craft installations on the building at Strossmayer Square 14. The Bureau took note of the opening ceremony of the house of Lavoslav Ružička in Vukvoar, which was attended from the very beginning by the Croatian Academy and the desire to open a scientific research unit in the facility. In addition to everything pointed out at the Bureau meetings, the celebration of important anniversarys and the sponsorship and organisation of numerous scientific meetings and elections were also discussed with the scientific research activities of the staff of the Academy. During the year, the Croatian Academy Foundation successfully carried out tasks to encourage scientific research and art work in the Republic of Croatia, which were established by the statute of the foundation. The Croatian National Budget for 2007 provided the Croatian Academy with 2 million 624 thousand 529 kuna as part of the prize, the compensation promised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Academy of Retracted Apartments. Following the public tender, the Management Board of the Foundation decided to allocate the funds of one million and one hundred thousand kuna to a total of 72 projects proposed by organisations and individuals. At the end of last year, a tender for the award of funds from the Dragutin Tadic Academy Fund was launched for the first time. The international cooperation of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was intensified from year to year, resulting in increased scope and quality of action by representatives of the Croatian Academy in international associations where he is an active member, for example the International Scientific Council, the Association of European Academys, the International Union of Academys, and particularly active involvement in the work of the European Science Foundation. In addition to that, our academy is working with nearly thirty national academys in twenty-two countries of the world. The Presidency of the Croatian Academy established a Committee for the Reconstruction and Development of Arboretta Trsteno and for its members... a number of academics and professional associates from Zagreb and Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2007. The Committee held five sessions in close line to address a number of issues from regular work and business Arboretum followed the course of the study of the found state in Arboretum Tristeno and established a proposal for the application of a scientific project outside the category of natural sciences and with a cultural approach called the Proposal for Complex Research of the HAZU Arboretum in Trieste. In addition to the regular ongoing maintenance of buildings at the academy in 2007, which includes smaller building rehabilitation procedures, it is necessary to mention the level of implementation of long-term capital projects as well as other major interventions on individual buildings. Yet far the biggest works were published on the renovation of the building in Strossmayer Square 14 which is being converted into a new academy library. During 2007, projects were completed to amend and supplement the building permit. On the basis of the cost-effectives of works which are part of the above-mentioned changes and additions of building permits, public competitions and the agreed final stage of the performance of works in all performance disciplines were carried out, the performance of works on buildings in accordance with the Construction Act was accompanied by the implementation of supervision and coordination of the performance of works. As the capital project in question is financed entirely from specific funds through state budget treasuryes, with the planned funds in the regular 2007 budget, with a great understanding of the Government and the Parliament, significant additional resources have been provided to enable the completion of construction, craft and installation works to be completed in full until the preparation of the technical examination and the outcome of the permit for the administrative building for the use of the building made in the month of March of this year. The Academy has scientific and research activities except in classes and other units such as shelters, centres, laboratories and cabinets. The Academy has 18 such units in Zagreb and outside Zagreb. In Zagreb there are eight of them and the other ten units are located outside Zagreb, two in Dubrovnik and one in Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Vinkovci and Trsten. The Academy's scientific and research unit during 2007 worked on 34 scientific projects. It's about what happened. parent projects, therefore, on projects whose research is carried out by the Academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the Academy, which is thirteen projects or other scientists from the Academy's institutions and institutes in total twenty-one projects. In the science-researching, museum-gallery and professional units of the Academy, 231 employees were employed last year. In addition, 38 scientific recruits were employed at the academy. Gliptotheka, Cabinet graphics, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters and Croatian Museum of Architecture operates within the museum-galery activity. In 2007, Gliptotheque exhibited significant activity with 28 exhibitions, 14 promotions and presentations and a series of other events such as concerts, charity auctions, presentations, etc. All the exhibitions were accompanied by appropriate catalogues. Six exhibitions are also organized in the Chamber of Graphics with appropriate catalogues. Strossmayer's gallery of old masters was open to the public with a permanent layout of the gallery. In January 2007, she came out of the press "Strassmayer's Donation" which processed the entire donation of Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer to the same-named gallery. During 2007, the Croatian Museum of Architecture held four exhibitions, all exhibitions were accompanied by appropriate catalogues and were duly commented in the public. The collection of museum exhibits was increased by five new donations. There are other forms of scientific work at the academy. So last year, 15 scientific councils worked within the Academy. In addition, an International Committee for the Research of Boxes, Clays and Aluminium, the Committee on People's Life and Customs and the Croatian Cryptographic Community works. In these councils and bodies work not only members of the academy but scientists and experts outside the academy and abroad. During 2007, scientific councils organized several scientific meetings and round tables, lectures and annual congregations. During 2007, 111 publications were published in their own press releases or in co-rapporteurships. Of these 43 books, 15 chambers from scientific gatherings, 36 volumes of magazines, 12 catalogues of exhibitions, 4 events with abstracts and one linguistic atlas. Of the support of the Croatian Academy Foundation during 2007 came 56 published books. In the 2007 Academy's summer paper, there was a detailed report on the financial operations of the Academy for the past year. The total funds held by the academy last year amounted to 83 million 483 thousand 897 kuna. The largest part includes funds from the state budget, which is 80.9%, then funds from other sources of funding such as the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the City Office for Culture Zagreb, then the county, cities and other legal individuals 15% as well as funds achieved by their own activities of the Academy 4.1%). The final accounts show that in 2007 the academy spent an amount of 84 million 311 thousand 401 kuna for its entire business and thus achieved a lack of revenue over expenditure of 827 thousand 505 kuna. This deficit stems from the fact that part of the costs is covered by the rest of the income from previous years. Over the past two years, a major step has been made in efforts for the Academy to open up to the media as much as possible, and thus to the general public. In this regard, contacts with the media have been intensified, and we are still not satisfied with the way some media monitor the work of the Croatian Academy. With a certain delay, the redesign and reconstruction of the Croatian Academy portal is completed. A useful meeting was held recently with the new headship of Croatian Radio and the first experiences confirm that this house will intensify the monitoring of our Academy's work. In early 2007, the presentation of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts through photographs began with the aim of making the Croatian public familiar with our academy and the values it promotes. The exhibition was presented in Zagreb, Zadar, Osijek, Đakov, Dubrovnik, Split and Varazdin in early 2008 in Bjelovar, Koprivnica, Rijeka, Sibenik. Her performance is being prepared in Pula and Vienna and Gradisto. According to knowledge so far, the exhibition has been very well received and has raised great interest in information funds, but so is the citizens of the school youth. For the past few years, the interest of cities has increased to establish academias in their midst on a scientific research unit which confirms the reputation of the Academy in the general public. Such units are still established in Bjelovar and Vukovar, and their opening is being prepared in Koprivnica, Požega and Sibenik. Allow me, Mr. President, to finally express my conviction that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has done its job in promoting scientific activities and artistic creation during 2007. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9150	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9151	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a summary of the very extensive 111th anniversary which contains 537 pages of the Croatian Academy's work report for 2007. From such a comprehensive report, of course due to limited time I will focus only on a few topics. In this report, I find it particularly interesting, and I believe most of the report concerning the Academy's relations with the public. In previous years, we have seen that there have been some problems in the perception of the Academy and its work, because some media have not devoted enough space to say very conditionally the work of our supreme, scientific and artistic institution. This is why the Academy has taken over and it is commendable to a whole series of activities, among other things, it has concluded a contract with the company and prior communications d.o.o., and the aim of this action is to increase the availability of information about the Academy of the General Public, which is more objectively to show these activities and create an objective perception of the Academy in the public. In these activities there is also the first major organisational movement, which is an exhibition about the Croatian Academy, an exhibition of photographs that in the language of photography expresses the history of the Academy, the Academy of present and depicts its future activities. The photographs were produced by our famous photographer Fabianić, Damir Fabianić, the exhibition went through a number of major Croatian cities, continues with its presentation, and an exhibition abroad is planned. A monograph of the Academy in Croatian and five other languages also appeared. He's also signed a contract with... d.o.o. by organising that the Academy, as a real scientific institution, wants to have the echo of its plans and its programmes, in other words to see how its activities are being increased or reduced in the media. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] The press scripting includes 12 daily newspapers, 71 weekly, 97 monthly or periodic magazines, 18 portals, 18 TV channels, 13 radio stations, etc. The result of the Academy's work on public presentation in 2007 is really impressive. A thousand 950 articles were published on the work of the Academy, of which most of course in the printed media, but also an impressive number in electronic media. It is commendable that the first Croatian television programme has also published 71 news about the Academy's work, which is significantly more than in previous years. If we add that to 22 news to the Academy on 2. Then the HTV program can be seen that the Academy's activity has paid off. Compared to 2006 by the number of texts and the number of emissions from the Academy's work, the Academy's report shows that the number increased even by 73% in 2007. So, the project paid off, congratulated the Academy, showed that it was presented to the public by an institution that has long been known to us as closed. We can see that was wrong. In print media, the number of texts is even 41% increase, on the Internet as much as 257%, on television twice 204%, etc., is the only one that has dropped on radio stations by 30% and is likely to be the subject of an analysis of the expert teams of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The only comment I'm talking about is the presentation of the Academy to the public, and we can say the personal affair that took place in connection with academics Adolf Dragicevic. We read his lunches at the expense of the president of the Academy, the chair of the Academy, the individual classes of the Academy, and the meals were presented in public, and we haven't heard the Academy's reply, so maybe if there's going to be an opportunity today in your final speech, I'm going to ask you to hear what the situation is with this unfavorable event and how it will end. I'm guessing the public is curious. Of the other activities, I would point out a very significant activity in terms of the preservation and evaluation of Croatian language. In 2007, with two major organisational projects completed during this period, the Academy showed that it was one of the important institutions that cared about the Croatian language. I'd just mention two events. The first is a statement on Croatian language on 15 January 2007. No date has been chosen by accident because it is the 15th anniversary since the recognition of the Republic of Croatia. Speaking about the language in her statement, the Academy also said the following sentence: "We became masters of Croatian language 15 years ago, but we do not master well with our language." So even though we masters do not very well, we can only see this in a brief analysis of foreigners who have entered the Croatian language in those years. The number of these aliens is very impressive and it grows in geometric progression. In terms of language, the Academy accepted the text on Croatian language in European integration. Also a very interesting material in which you can see the dangers of hiding everything in Croatian in European integration. Of course, this does not warrant integration but warns us that in such a quality approach as joining European countries, we must pay close attention to the preservation of our own language. As an official language, the European Union declares the language of each member regardless of the number of inhabitants the country has, however, we have quite an unpleasant experience from various other international events, let us only remember the courts in The Hague where no report has yet been received in Croatian. The Academy therefore warns that we must achieve that equality as well as in all other sectors, which is the equality in the use of Croatian language as all other members of the European Union do. It also warns of an attempt to introduce so-called. the language of the Western Balkans. It is, of course, an attempt to join several languages into one. How these attempts will end depend only on us and on anyone else. Since the other activities of the Academy in 2007, I would also mention the monitoring of current events, so I would like to point out in particular that in 2007 the Academy accepted a statement on the problem of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, that it published that statement and that the statement continues at the Round Table on Corruption in the Republic of Croatia organised in 2006. That statement also shows that certain parts of the Academy are very much involved in correcting the social irregularities that we are witnessing. Of the many significant projects I would mention and so said Mr. Secretary in his opening report the continuation of the library of the Academy in the building at Strossmayer's Square 14, the completion of one and I would say long discussions with the Resolute Ministry to ensure the financing of the remaining 8 and a half million kunas and I am glad that this has come to an end and that the Academy will get its library which will certainly be one of the most important pillars of our library problem. In these efforts that the Academy points out, I would also point out the wish of the Academy and the intention in which this Assembly should also be supported and, of course, the institutions that must finance it, the opening of a scientific research unit in Vukovar at the house of Lavoslav Ružička. So it would definitely be a very good decision to expand scientific research into our Vukovar area. Of the other activities that are very detailed in this book, I might highlight scientific gatherings. The Academy organized as many as 48 different gatherings for the sake of creating an image in 2007 and, if we analyze it, we see that they have preceded the legal topics of 11 meetings, the economic topics of 9 meetings, the medical topics of 7 meetings. We medics always get ahead of it, it's kind of in our blood. But from this we see that the economic topics in our Academy are taking an increasingly important and more important place, which is of particular importance for the overall social development of our country. Twenty-eight thematic, 28 thematic lectures were also given, also preceding those in the area of economic and energy. Of the 28 such lectures, 12 are from the area of economy and energy, 6 from the field of education and science, and then a whole series of lectures from other important areas for the development of the state. At the same time, 30 were held, 39 exhibitions were held and what is particularly interesting to the Academy experts participated in 34 scientific projects. When we look at the topics of these projects, then we see that they dominate social sciences, which is certainly consistent with the tasks of the Academy, 19 projects and economic sciences with 7 projects take a high place which I repeat also speaks of the practical, possible practical application of the scientific work of members of our Academy. And finally to mention the activity in publishing books and publishing. So far, the Academy has published 4000 485 books. So really impressive data. 170 new titles were added in 2007. They are detailed in this yearbook, and we really see that these books and editions cover all the fields of both science and art areas of our lives. And finally a comprehensive description of the work of individual departments, first of all class then scientific councils, the Institute of the Academy where one very live, intense work of our Academy ends with a very correct financial report. Such a report can help us to conclude that this is how reports are written exhaustively with a summary that each representative receives, but also with an extensive original that is also available to everyone. Due to such comprehensiveness and content of this report, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support and recommend supporting this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9152	Thank you very much. There are no more registered clubs to discuss, but there are five more individual applications, and after that, today's work will be concluded. The first for an individual debate is a respected representative, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard to say something new after this exhaustive report and Mr. Secretary, I also welcome what Mr. Hebrang said on behalf of the HDZ Club, but I do want to point out a few things. Of course, the yearbook that we all received together best talks and depicts in fact all activities of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the past year, which is the subject of this report, and we really congratulate all academics and their associates who have truly achieved a respectable number of works and opened a large number of topics that are very important to all of us in Croatia. There's also a fact about which there wasn't much talk. He mentioned Mr. Secretary of the Academy mentioned that fact, which is that some new organisational units will be opened in some cities. One of them, of course, is here before the opening in Vukovar. There is also a mention of Bjelovar which is also the organisational unit before opening, and what also looks forward to three more new cities, which are Koprivnica, Sibenik, here is the present and mayor, and Požega expressed interest that an organisational unit of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts will be opened in their city. I think that's extremely significant. Why? I will say from the experience that we have in Dubrovnik, because this organisational unit in Dubrovnik is truly alive woven into the daily Dubrovnik and in some ways represents really significant cultural events and everything that the Academy does in Dubrovnik, representing books, organising various lectures. I think it contributes to the everyday cultural life of the city of Dubrovnik and in this sense to welcome the interest of other cities, because we think that this way the academy can best bring its work closer to our fellow citizens. I would also like to welcome Mr Hebrang's statement on behalf of the club, which is a statement on the state of Croatian language and on the situation in European integration. But it is really very important that the academy, so that one significant way to approach a very important issue, is the question of the state of Croatian language. Today we're full of aliens. It's just enough to open a newspaper, so you'll see what expressions are used. Of course, the greatest influence has been exerted by IT technology and in this sense the right answer needs to be found. Because today they are increasingly used in everyday speech and abbreviations and foreigners who prevail in that language. So, computerically and in that sense, I think we really need to answer in the right way and preserve what is important to all of us, which is Croatian. I am not so afraid of an initiative that would eventually tomorrow when we enter the European Union try to introduce some Balkan language and I am sure that it will not happen, because Croatia will certainly be the first of the countries of Southeast Europe to enter and certainly be the one that will be the official language of the European Union among other Member States at that moment. And in this sense, I am not really afraid of any merger, because it is impossible because the differences are very significant in this regard and also in the talks we have with the representatives of the European Commission and with the euro parliamentarians. None of them know about such an initiative nor do they support it. Therefore, I expect this issue to be resolved in the way everyone in Croatia expects it to be the Croatian language that will be the official language. And for the rest of us, we'll see when they get in. I believe that the principle that has so far prevailed in the European Union will be respected. Also, the presence in the media, regardless of what is improved, can be freely said that unfortunately, the academy's works, everything the academy does is not present enough in the everyday and Croatian public, and in this sense we are appealing to the media and, above all, to the public and Croatian television, so to pay more attention to the work that is done daily in the Croatian Academy. In this regard, we are giving full support to the very demands of the Academy, which is also looking for more media representation in some way. We do not think that information or disclosure of information that is only brief that the academy has organised this and that, but should really be approached in a more systematic way and dealt with these topics that the Academy is actually providing to the public, and in that sense I believe that some shift will be made. If anything else we appeal to the leadership of Croatian radiotelevision to take steps in this regard that will mean progress in the presence of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in the media. And something that I personally find extremely important about what was on the board is an initiative to open a new class in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which would be a class for film and theatre art. We feel that there is certainly a lot of arguments that do not make sense today, because we will have a special subject on the board. We've already agreed with the president of the academy and we think there's a lot of arguments to open the class for film and theatre art. Croatia is very present in this sphere and many artists have contributed not only to Croatia's level, but also to both European and world level. As far as their presence in these two arts is concerned, and in that sense, we really should take that step, because we think there's a lot of arguments about such a thing. Here, I'd like to end up and finally welcome this report, which is more than exhaustive and which in the most transparent way speaks of that part of the financial that seems irrelevant to what you've done, but still important to the functioning of the academy itself. And I am sure that the Croatian Academy will continue to have sufficient resources for its daily work and, in that sense, welcome the report and support it of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9154	Thank you. Replication to this exhibition has a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9155	I think that colleague Matušić well apostrophe, and earlier on speaking on behalf of the Club of fellow Hebrang this part in a report that speaks about the position and role of Croatian language today in Croatia. But not just today, but all these years. He gets worse every year, and I don't think it's just as convenient from year to year to turn his attention to this terrible thing that looks like we're all powerless over her. I think this question is our common question, that the issue of Croatian language and the question of Croatian language in general throughout history was so important that the conditions and the reason for the individual historical circumstances of existence, that the language kept us alive, that we lost both our language knowingly and unconsciously. What do you do about it? We have a wonderful show on Croatian Radio on the 1st program that speaks Croatian. The experts themselves in the area have been talking just and recently, whether it's a lost battle. Anglicisms that penetrate and form, the original English words that then have a continuation in the Croatian language – you, connect, etc., once were, even we used it in a peri-curative sense for our returnees, not the returnees, but our emigrants who had moved out long ago, so when they came back they forgot Croatian, they never learned English well, so I would say I promised him to transport it and so they were the subject of a mockery, that in some way I would say the jokes. But today it's a question of human affirmation and a man who speaks Croatian connect, including a loser, is a loser, not a man who is ongoing. Therefore, let us not be afraid when Croatia enters the European Union, it seems even better to protect the Croatian language then because the Croatian language is completely separated from the Serbian language and other languages. It's a question of Croatian language in Croatia. Let's go once, perhaps an open topic and a special topic in individual committees and in the Croatian Assembly on the position of Croatian language. This does not mean that there will be penalties if someone mistakes what Croatian word to use...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9157	...but in that sense, we would need a joint declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9158	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9159	Thank you very much. Well, there's very few topics that me and my colleague disagree on, but we totally agree on this. Everything you said I absolutely support, I think it is true, here we have already taken one step on the Committee on Science, Culture, Education and Sports and there we have already agreed actually thematic session on this topic and on everyone else related to the work of the Academy. But really, we could also agree at club level after we bring in one special declaration, I don't mind, the more I support it. When we look at our language in the assembly, there are already enough indicators not to speak Croatian the way you should. Here's what you said in your speech, loser. ... But you fixed the loser. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, that's right. In this context absolutely, a lot of foreigners are used and completely inappropriately in fact that we in the Croatian Parliament are also contributing to it, but unfortunately we are also participants in such a one-state situation and in this sense indeed, here we are taking that first step. I believe that, with the help of the academy and all the other factors, we will make significant steps, but let's be the ones to respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9160	Thank you very much. We will proceed with the debate of the esteemed representative, Mr Nevia Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9161	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy, Madam and Gentlemen Representatives. I am really pleased to say more about this report, which is so extensive and thoroughly prepared in all the fields that the Academy is dealing with. I would like to say that he feels and agrees with predecessors who said that somehow in Croatian society, the Croatian Academy is becoming more and more present, that is, the function is being founded, so that the fruits of a wide spectrum of scientists and academics are slowly entering even stronger into Croatian society. We all know that science suffers from partiality, and exactly the academy is such an institution where there is a synthesis of connection between various scientific and artistic disciplines, which is very good. Croatia has developed its infrastructure at universities and in certain institutes and what the Academy has done, completes and gives this special force, which is necessary today for raising the scale of values and understanding of social flows, and what is very important for the development of a young Croatian state, and this needs to be further intensified and that is why I join those parts of the debate that support, what Hebrang said, precisely greater communication with the public of the academy. The popularization of knowledge and science is a discipline that we often hear among MPs that is not necessary or sufficient to publish scientific work. That's not true. European culture and practice shows that just the popularity of science and knowledge is something very, very important. Because while this high knowledge is being translated into textbooks, and we need to know that educational and educational disciplines have become science in Croatia as well, and that this has been raised to a university level, then we need to know that this, quick conversion and science into a general knowledge is a very difficult and complex process. I would like to thank the academics here because I also personally participated in the process of changing the content of teaching curricula building through the Croatian National Education Standard where we had in all subcommittees of academics who had just helped with their enormous knowledge to shape what I consider modern, needed today in Croatian school. As my colleague Matušić suggested something, if I may think out loud, perhaps too soon, today I think when we want to build Croatia founded as a knowledge society, then it would also be necessary to install into the academy some more disciplines such as educational sciences because there are more and more people who are dealing with it and thus the spectrum of our knowledge would expand further and I do not doubt the gain that we might have. I say, maybe too soon because only these years has come to this consciousness and it seems to be, so there is a space where we can act because I am deeply convinced that knowledge is a general universal world value, but I am convinced that it and the Croatian value, that it is our value, that it radiates from us as we are and that it shows a modern Croatia, a power that strengthens us from within. I want to say something here because we have heard that the active composition of the academy makes 146 regular members, 133 correspondents and 80 associates. That's a total of 366. But here I'm saying, the academy has another large number of its institutions and its employees operating in 18 units, which is the field office from Rijeka to Dubrovnik, and we've heard everything further, and that's 231 employees in these working units, institutions of the Academy. It's a bunch of scientists from scientific recruits to scientific advisors working there, so I want to mention a little of them here. Thus, in 2007 231 were employed in these scientific and research, museum-gallery and professional units of the Academy. Of which 14 scientific advisors, 13 senior scientific associates, 23 scientific associates, 4 senior assistants, 22 assistants, 11 professional associates and 18 staff of the museum-galerian profession. Furthermore, the academy has 19 employees in library jobs, 10 in archival affairs and 97 employees and subsistence officers performing administrative and financial assistance jobs. In addition, 38 scientific recruits were employed at the academy. I just don't think that's the one I'm going to say one strength of the academy and I really like that the academy has its own institutions all over Croatia. It is very important to let me come from the Croatian periphery, I come from Istria and in our environments and also in Vukovar, and even in Dubrovnik, and also in Bjelovar, Požega we don't exactly have people of such a profile too much and it is good that some institutes do it like the "Pilar" Institute to set up their branches but this academy has long and this orientation is very good and it strengthens our periphery in our counties right through people who are sophisticatedly educated, who work on such topics and can strengthen our society in those areas and I hold that it is good that here it is a desire to start their own institution in Sibenik and in some other places, Koprivnica and it is very good. This is what I find useful for Croatia because our society opens up to the public and without people who can answer demanding questions of time, it is difficult to bring correct answers, and these answers can sometimes be, can't come from representative benches, don't have to come from executive hairs can come from people of knowledge. Because the time that lies before us and the greatest capital around which we all agree more or less, the capital of our age is still knowledge. To be different, better, to produce... yourself, to be subject to it, I think that academy helps. I mean, what's impressive is when you read and see, the academy has since its draft published 4 thousand 569 volumes which is impressive and almost impossible to carry within itself, but that knowledge that we were able to do back then... to produce further, so he's in us, he's somewhere, and this is still because this year too, the report is being discussed, 111 publications were published in his own story and in the co-publishment of 43 books, 15 chambers from scientific gatherings, 36 volumes of magazines, 12 catalogues of exhibitions, 4 events with abstracts, one linguistic atlas. [[You don't understand.]] This is the potential that engraves and should be congratulated on, and it is evident that the academy is really performing its function that is intended for it even at the time when the initial foundations of the modern Croatian state that we have realized in some small later port but that is the potential we have. Here you should say that the academy has its own archives, has its libraries, has its own exchange, so in a thousand copies it comes out of some way that the Academy in some way and I am glad that Mr Hebrang, the representative Hebrang, said on behalf of the HDZ club, the academy in some way comes out of some less familiarity that the Croatian people felt and society, and it needs to be speeded up because it is the only way we can rely more on ourselves, and less on the import that Mrs Antčević was saying, which comes through the language outside, etc. And we have to believe in ourselves more because we see that we have any of it. I also join these actions if you notice, the Academy is the site where people of high rank come as well as the Nobel Prize winner of Israel's Deputy Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize winner Shimun Perec who gave the lecture and was a guest. Just as the president of Greece was present. I also hold this important because this institution that can represent and organise such lectures is talking about the dignity that our most important scientific and artistic institutions have. And in the end, I see that time is up, and I certainly want to support this report and congratulate you on your dedicated work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9162	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for discussion, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9163	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Academy. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is undeniable to deserve our attention and full support as a headquarters institution of science and art in the Republic of Croatia. However, I would agree with the findings that prevailed here, that access to the media of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the past period, unfortunately, was very limited because of the Croatian Academy of Science and Art. I will point out a very valuable and important document by HAZU, which warned a few years ago about the knowledge problem of a document called a declaration of knowledge and the application of knowledge. I may quote what is particularly pointed out in this document at the introduction. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts considers it its duty to ring the alarm. For what? Due to the fact that differences in knowledge and its application become the main factors that divide developed countries from undeveloped, rich from poor, high standard of living from low, and this was a strong message that clearly pointed to the necessity of connecting knowledge, research and development with the economy. Only those companies where there is a sufficiently built-in critical mass of knowledge can take place on a globalised world market with their competing products. Exports are the best proof of the amount of knowledge incorporated into one economy. This document was very important, but about it in the Croatian media, we almost heard nothing in the Croatian public, and therefore I hold that it is very important to do everything, but not only on the part of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts but on the part of all state institutions that those who know and who need to warn about the very important role that knowledge should play in the Croatian economy, that their approach to Croatian media and Croatian public is far more noticeable and far more powerful than it was until when we compare the amount of attention given to some other cases in relation to the amount of attention that is being given to key, important and valuable documents such as the Declaration of Knowledge, then it is really not too much to ask why it is so, who are these editors who choose unfortunately wrong values and try to structure this society in a way that really long term does not have a necessary perspective. The academy, as it was said, works within the nineth grade. Since I have been an engineer for many decades, I will briefly look back on the technical science class and the fact that the technical science class through the special Scientific Council for Technological Development has made one significant contribution to further affirmation of the Academy in terms of a clearer definition of what is called knowledge and the role and position of knowledge in Croatian society, but especially in the Croatian economy. The technical sciences class as mentioned in this document on page 253 has twelve regular and seven associates. I'm glad to see you among the academics of my dear professors, my leaders, the people I've graduated from as academician Leo Budin, Professor Babic, an academic with whom I've doctored a whole series of other colleagues. But given the complexity of all the technical sciences, it's not too much to ask if all these people can respond to all those challenges that are being put into the broader context of what we're doing today under technical sciences. I would say quite understandable and logically that it's not easy or simple at all. For these reasons, I don't know exactly, but I should know a few years ago or ten years ago, either 15 years ago and the Academy of Technical Sciences whose extraordinary member I am. In any case, I also talked to the president of the Academy of Technical Sciences the other day, and I think we must do everything we can to ensure that this cooperation between the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts headquarters and other academias is strengthened in order to ensure that human potential of knowledge and quality is needed in some key areas that determine Croatia's future. In any case, the Scientific Council for Energy is very important. Unfortunately, this year or in the 2007 report, all what was done under this Scientific Council for Energy did not enter this Chamber but it was more of a red tape error. But one important observation in the report of the Scientific Council for Energy and absolutely confirms what is said here, says and warns that Croatian television was not ready to co-operate with the Scientific Council for Energy in order to get to know in the Croatian public the reality of the state of energy security and the energy future of the Republic of Croatia but we hope that this will change. The Scientific Council for Technological Development has made several valuable documents, several valuable and important discussions that have resulted in appropriate recommendations. Recommendations based on the debate on innovation and research universities and knowledge-based enterprises are important. The documents were considered and adopted by the technical science class and supported by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts Presidency at its session on 30 April 2008. Of course, these young academics, if I may say so, gave young forces a swing to the class of technical sciences. Those recommendations, in any case, I hold that they are valuable and important. And let me just point out some basic ideas from the active recommendations. The forms of research creation and their evaluation. The recommendations encourage the creation of new processes, products and services, the creation and promotion of new entrepreneurship. It's very important and it's something we need to concentrate on. I remember very well when I came to an arbur 20 years ago where I was a guest flair researcher, a document, we must stick to the warning of strict use of Croatian. In the first place, the University of Michigan launched several hundred knowledge-based companies, employs over 40,000 people and secures revenue of 2 billion a year through these companies. This all shows that creation and its evaluation through the processes of products and services and new entrepreneurship is one of the key directions for further development and strengthening of the Croatian economy. The strategic focus of the university on innovation, the acceleration of the innovation cycle, are all valuable messages that deserve far more attention than we have time. Connecting and networking for the development of the Croatian economy is very important instead of fragmenting the gathering of all those who can participate and work on large projects and ensure products on the global world market competitive in the interest of the Croatian economy. And not for no reason, just in this context, all European Commission programmes insist on integration in order to increase competitiveness and quality. And one of the key recommendations of this document is to improve the communication strategy. And finally, another document of the technical science class is related to the conclusions of the debate on education for the technologically dependent knowledge society and I believe that all these efforts of the technical sciences class through the Technological Development Council have contributed significantly to the affirmation of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts over the last few years. And that is why here is from this place and my congratulations to academics Leo Budin, Hrvoje Babić and all those who sit in the technical sciences class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9164	Thank you very much. The next application for an individual debate is the one submitted by the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here it is, in the end, almost at the end of this debate, it's hard to say anything and it doesn't happen again. However, I am sorry, and last year I pointed out that when we discuss this report, there are fewer and fewer MPs in the assembly, and we are considering the most significant fundamental institutions and scientific and cultural, institutions that I would say really play a role in preserving Croatian identity. When I mentioned this that it has a role in preserving Croatian identity, I could sign all these statements that my distinguished colleagues today have said here about the position of Croatian language and I believe that besides a series of institutions dealing with and dealing with the issue of Croatian language, the Academy really plays the most important role. She did, and from last year's report we saw and discussed the position of Croatian language in primary and secondary schools, in higher and higher schools. That was in last year's debate. I also agree with what colleagues Hebrang, Matušić, colleagues of Antičević mentioned about the position of Croatian but also what the Academy has done in these two major important steps to encourage us, the general public of Croatia to reflect on what the Croatian language means for the survival of a nation and for the survival of a country. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said, but I will simply underline that I am signing everything the Academy is doing and supporting, and I ask you to do even more, that's what I said to my Professor Mošhu through the Academy classes just so that the Academy will be the driver who will be the general public, and also the public who is in charge I would say by some of my activities, the ministries point to the possibility at all also the position of the Croatian language today and in the future. What to say now about the Academy's work. When I thought about how to start this debate, I thought I would start with this brief report of yours, but from the end, what we all did in at least two, three years as I participated in the discussion about the Academy, and what I was pleased to say is that we are satisfied, not entirely, and that is what the Academy did, and what the media did to the public about the Academy opening up, that the general public knows what the Academy is doing and what it is, the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. First of all, the Academy has made a great effort around this exhibition, which has traveled through cities and I know that it has indeed had and has been well received in large cities, that the Academy has started to publish on its websites, has started to supplement them, to update all news, to show the general public, and I think that what counterpart Hebrang has said has been represented only in public media, is already a major step for the importance and knowledge of the importance of the Croatian Academy to the general public, which may not even be engaged in scientific and research work, but through these stages in the media he has also met the work of the Academy. I think, and I must say, the size and scope of the Academy's work, which is also said by my colleague Šetić, it's 4 thousand 569 volumes of different books, the magazine is something huge, from the draft to today, and also in 2007. 43 books, 15 chambers, 12 catalogues, 4 programs, one linguist atlas, that it is indeed a great and extensive activity that is shown in this book, in this yearbook, and it is good that all MPs get it, because in this way it can go to the general public, so we can get to know the general public of those people who can't get these reports. There's something else I need to say. If the Academy were not a closed institution speaking and increasing interest, counterpart Matušić told these cities, above all Bjelovar and Vukovar in which these scientific and research units are already operating and these three new cities in which he said academic Moš in a report to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which will almost open, are before the opening, which is Sibenik, Koprivnica and Požega. But there is something I must say today that we are not in this debate today, and I have a need. Last year, in our discussion, we all mentioned and prayed, almost praying for financial resources to be found for the completion of the library, i.e. for the buildings of the future library in Strosmeyer Square number 14, that it is with pleasure and done, that the funds are provided, that this adaptation is completed, that soon it will be moved and that in 2008 a large part of the funds are provided in the budget for the library's equipment, so we hope that soon we will move this library really to a decent place that belongs to it. And something I've been saying in my past reports, and I have to point out, and none of my colleagues have talked about it today. It's this very important edition of "Croatia and Europe" around which at first there were some small small problems, I would say more in intensifying the edition, speeding up whether it was so work on this edition, but here last year we ended up with the first updated notebook because, in Croatian whether it was published, because it was so much a need for me to say by printing that notebook that it had simply had to be the first edition, the first volume had to be restored, and not to say that the second and third ones had already been translated into English, here is the end of the translation into French, that the manuscript was submitted for the fourth and fifth in preparation. So, in the last two years as far as I've been following the edition of this significant edition for us "Croatia and Europe", it has really accelerated its pace of publication and I would say that with pleasure, and here is the great interest, we also see what we have to touch first volume and restore it, that I can say with pleasure that it has come across a good public reception and that it has been accepted. Finally, it is unnecessary to say how important today's Academy is and what it means for the entire development of Croatian society. Here's to not really repeating myself, all the congratulations to all of you who are participating in the Academy's work on what you're doing in the first place for the development of our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9166	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9167	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary-General of the HAZU, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here is not only that the elemental courtesy tells me to give thanks to the leaders of HAZU, but in this way I must express my real great personal happiness that here and not only from the title of the representative in the Croatian Parliament, but also from the title of the mayor of the city, which is the oldest originally Croatian in the Adriatic and exactly according to the leading people of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which, with its intention, actually recognises its cultural and historical heritage on one side and transforms from the city of the heavy black industry into a city that develops in tourist on the other hand, opens up the possibility of obtaining a scientific research centre. Such an initiative took place recently after a brilliant exhibition of Croatian Academy of Science and Arts through a photograph of the famous artist Mr. Damir Fabianić spoke of by the respected representative Mr. Andrija Hebrang, of course set up in one of the most beautiful city libraries in Croatia, the city library "Juraj Šižgorić" in Sibenik at the opening attended by HAZU academic Mr. Moš then academician Mr. Tonči Vulin and secretary professor Dr. Slobodan Kaštela. This is also an opportunity in which, in which I would also like to thank the leaders of the HAZU, HAZU pardon and the director of Mrs. King, the Gliptotheque of HAZU, who made it possible to set up an exhibition as well as promote the smallest... in a world they have connected very conveniently with the smallest and lowest island in the Mediterranean, an island called Krapanj which is located in the Sibenik archipelago and thus contributes to the development of the tourist offer and Ilock as well as the city, pardon the island of Krapanj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would certainly open and establish a scientific and research... in Sibenik, with a decision from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the formation and the National Sibenik Archives of last year, Sibenik received a truly belonging place and one that actually belongs to it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Replication timed out.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9168	Thank you very much. And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9169	Here's a sentence when you... Like this, I think this is exactly the proof that colleague Klaric said the Academy was open to the general public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must say that I attended this exhibition in Gliptoteca with my colleague, and there it is shown that the Academy is really open to the general public, according to all possibilities, and here is one extraction of the tourist potential and the merger of two parts of Croatia's Ilock and here is the Adriatic Sea and Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9170	Thank you very much. We've come to the last one reported for this debate. That's the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9171	My colleagues and colleagues, I will not join your apologies for two reasons. First, because I think the Academy has its own shortcomings, and that's what needs to be pointed out. And secondly, because it seems to me that a man of criticism learns much more than he does from praise. First, I would warn that, I would warn that the Academy is both the highest institution in the state in science and art. The highest institution in the state in science and art. This means that these should also be its members, and this obliges existing members to choose and future members, since the HAZU has an election assembly of 29.5. I hope that the story from the following will not be repeated, from the last election assembly, but that the HAZU will choose the best from its best in its classes and among its regular members. I hope the HAZU will not once again violate the law and its own normative acts. Being the highest in science and art means actually being of strategic importance. And I am grateful to the Academy for some strategic steps but it seems to me that few or many are too little compared to what I would personally like to be. Of course, I could relate to my colleague, Cosic, and to the 2002 Declaration of Knowledge, but the first not the second, not 2004. I could also relate to the Declaration of Corruption because in these aspects, the Croatian Academy seems to have taken a bite into the key problems. However, as this usually happens, the Declaration of Knowledge is also a kind of self - criticism of the Academy. The declaration of knowledge has said in some ways implications of course what the Academy should be, and the Academy isn't. That the Academy should be the initiator of strategic change in the country, in science and art, in its thoroughness and its avant-gardeness. In its excellence, therefore, and suitability as usual and in... in his inaccessibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The moment the Academy starts to establish different branches in small places where there are no great scientists and artists the Academy actually starts competing with the Matica of Croatia which in itself is not bad, but loses that dimension of excellence that is always elite and exceptional. Which as the highest should be had. When we talk about scientific and artistic production then let's remember that this artistic and scientific production has its price and compare this scientific production in the Academy's research units with that scientific production that public or university institutes have about equal money for it. I don't remember, forgive me for not knowing, if this was the case, please remind me that in the last year, in the last two years these research units have produced one significant, most significant Croatian discovery, patent, foundation for new technology and so on. I do, however, fear that in some of its aspects, the Academy has begun to drown in mediocrity. It's nice in any case with a million and some kuna to support scientific research projects. But the moment you divided a million kunas into 70 and some scientific research projects, on average, you gave them 15 thousand kunas. What can be done with 15 thousand kunas in scientific research? I think anyone who's ever taken it knows it alone. And so on and so forth. It is therefore mine to say more my wish that the Academy be an institution as defined by the law and how you have set it by your own statute to act if possible epochal of course, that it makes those steps that are in its own programme and that it actually impresses us all by opening new horizons and thus pulling Croatia's development into what we have set ourselves as a knowledge society. Given the shift of time I'll stop here, although it would be possible to further thematicize some of the critical remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9172	Thank you very much. We have one correction of an incorrect quote and one replica. First of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations and the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9173	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that he is a colleague, and there has been a number of inaccuracies, he said, would not repeat the irregular selection of members of the academy since last year. The choice was correct, both by law and by the rules of autonomy of the academy and its members to elect new members. Anything else would be political pressure. So it's not true that it was an incorrect choice. The choice was right both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the fundamental labour and position of the academy in society. It is also not true that the academy is not the initiator of strategic programmes. It's true it is an initiator. Especially in recent years, we have seen at the thematic gatherings a large number of exactly strategic projects and those of particular interest for the overall development of the Croatian state. And it's also not incorrect that no quality result came from these projects. From 34 ongoing projects, I am sure there will be also good and quality scientific results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9174	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9175	Yes, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would just like to replicate on one thesis of Mr. Flega, who says the academy is beginning to compete with the Croatian Matica if it develops its institutions throughout Croatia. I think maybe you didn't understand something, because the academy has its composition in Zagreb. So it works according to its classes in Zagreb. But the centers, or units, are all over Croatia. As we've seen, there are 18 units. Some are in Zagreb, but there are in Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Vinkovci and Trsten etc. I personally believe that some research may be hard to do in the periphery, but in the field of humanistic and social sciences, I think we would be maimed if we didn't have it. When we don't have one Nenad Vekanic and Dubrovnik, when we don't have Dr Miroslav Bertoshi in Pula, they can count more people. That would be an impoverishment. I really think classes should stick to and be the way they are and you're right there and so should be the academy as roof. But with the academy, there are developmental institutions for social and humanistic, etc. Science and there are projects funded by the Ministry of Science and from there are recruited by a large number of university teachers who work at local universities, if I may say so, as the universities in Pula, Dubrovnik. But there's also a guy who claims to be academics, and in that sense, I just wanted to say it. So I agree with you in one piece, but I couldn't agree on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9176	Thank you very much. We'll hear a reply to the replica, Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9177	I'm actually, I'm getting something different. It really seems to me that top research is possible to develop where we have top scientists. The moment we start developing a network of institutions around the country, then we do it for some other reasons, not for elite science. Because I understand the strategy and the strategic performance something different and let's say from your colleague Hebrang, and if your colleague Hebrang had listened to what he was saying then he'd actually hear the meaning he'd expressed. He's kind of like this. “It’s not true that there are no big results in these 34 projects, because I’m sure there will be.” I think the strategy consists of taking steps that open new horizons. You've confused the past and the future. No, you don't listen to yourself when you talk. It seems to me that, in fact, it's just that strategic steps are done that way, not that we're crying that the press isn't following us, but that the press is torn apart by what's drawn as a strategic step because it depends on our future and our improvement, especially in that context where we talk about the knowledge society that the academy could, and in my court should be a decisive and key institution or should express myself in the old language of the main locomotive.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9178	Thank you very much. Here is the closing word for Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Secretary-General Slavko Cvetnić. Here you go, academics.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I could say maybe just a few words, and first of all, I'm glad this report did come of interest to at least a few of you. It is a constant fate for the academy, in spite of our efforts, to come to public hearings only when we should not come, i.e. Then if someone is unhappy with this or the effect of the academy, depending on whether the favorite or favorite of the public reads, then the academy will be able to hear about it. It's our destiny still. I think today's debate has shown, however, that the academy is trying to get into public voice for the good, the successes of the academy, and I think there's a slight rise, not particularly visible. And to illustrate to you what the Academy's desire to present in public means, it's our attempt for several years to show in January the public announcements of the materialized publishing activity of the academy, which is visible. And it looks like this to you, that the secretary-in-chief now invites all the public messages in my person, and at the academy in our little hall, we put all our publications together in the past year, so that every class secretary, so 9 class secretary, has two, three, five, 10, or 15 books in the field of that class. The secretary-general is tasked with presenting works that are of general interest to the academics, specifically the books of Croatia and Europe. And you know what happens all the time? It happens that two to three people come, as a rule it's ladies who come in at regular times scheduled for that presentation without cameras and without cameras coming in, and I can usually say it, and as a rule this year, it's not going to last, until the end there's one lady left. It's a picture we've had for several years. I've been able to prepare such a presentation five times this year. Therefore, it is our attempt to produce such a fruit. We think that this exhibition, which has already passed a dozen cities in Croatia, has made some move to see people and in cities outside Zagreb that the academy is not a closed fortress, a tower of whiteness in which it cannot be penetrated. In fact, we've offered everything we can and what we have to offer about eighty panos. Therefore, our desire and our need to be in public when there is something positive to say. Secondly, I am happy and overjoyed to say what you have given a very long time to question the Croatian language. It will be especially nice to our philosophers, as you know, and the president himself is a philosopher. The Academy does what it can. Declarations are not the only solution, and they may not be the best solution, but the second is in the context of our options we're not even able to do. Therefore, I am pleased, I will convey it to both the administration and the presidency, and there will be speeches I hope at the assembly about that our interest in promoting Croatian language was noticed, at the end of the academy was founded as the first task of the academy 147 years ago when it was founded to cultivate language and customs. Therefore, he will be glad and I thank you really because there were lots of beautiful ideas about how to further improve Croatian language in the future. I think the question raised by Mr. Professor Flego is a question raised every two years. In fact, every two years there are elections at the academy. The elections at the academy take place, so to speak, one can say a rigorous rule which, above all, cherishs the right to a secret vote and I can say that in every vote, so also in this each candidate has passed a triple secret vote. In short, from the 11 seats we had for the regular members, it arrived and went through the procedure to the 8 candidates' assembly, and there were 3 candidates in each place. Therefore, in one seat of a regular member who will be elected at the 29th Assembly, that is exactly this month, they were, there will be 2 candidates who can't pass because we, as you know, have nominus Klaus, 160 regular members, 100 co-workers, etc. Therefore, it is a procedure that is established in the academy, common and respected. I can really convince you, now I have a good experience already, that this vote is truly and truly secret. That's it. I would still like to just answer Mr. Hebrang mentioned the situation at the academy with academician Dragicevic. I can say next. The misunderstanding, to put it that way with academic Dragicevic, lasted almost a year and a half or two years. A little over a year ago, the Croatian Academy Presidency made a proposal based on the opinion of all members of the presidency, which required that Dragicevic be apologized for the indiscretions he had spoken and offended, we heard today, can say practically all members of the academy, and especially members of several classes of the Academy, including the president. So, the presidency's decision and this unanimous decision by the presidency was to warn academic Dragicevic about it and to ask for an apology. The Bureau’s decision was also agreed by a congregation that was held about a year ago. So, the academy assembly where all the members, the regular members of the academy, all the academics. The assembly also unanimously accepted the Bureau's report required, I repeat by academic Dragicevic to apologize to anyone who has hurt or offended him. Since the Bureau and the assembly's decision had been painful, the Academy's administration, or the Bureau, passed the procedure on to the Ethics Committee, and this ethical commission has, for a little less than a year now or since autumn, actually had the subject under discussion. It happened that on the new year, the president of the Ethics Commission, a prominent member of the academy, Academy member Sergei Foymbacher, who was elected president of the committee, hospitalized and operated on the same day. He has not yet recovered to this day, and he has indicated that he will not be able to lead this commission any further. So that's the current situation with that I can tell the unwanted event at the academy. I can thank you for your attention, and I would like to thank indeed the Parliament and all MPs in the Assembly for the help, material assistance and understanding that we have managed to turn the chemical laboratory into a library of the Academy which is in a building sense completed and where, at the beginning, the setting up of the premises of those in the future, or in the library for which we also thank the Parliament and the Government of Croatia for providing us with money to equip the library in the way that modern and sovereign libraries need and can be equipped. I hope that at the end of this year, with your presence, we will cut the tape of our library. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9180	Thank you very much, dear academic Cvetnic. I hereby conclude the debate on the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2007. We will vote on the report when the conditions are obtained, and I am also concluding today's work and tomorrow I announce the continuation of the session at 9.30 p.m. with the 6th point of the consolidated agenda of the Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2007. Thank you all until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-15-0.u9181	Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2007. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the home working body which reads: - A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority with 109 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone. We continue the session with the agenda item - Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2007 The report is proposed by the Croatian Olympic Committee. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Zlatko Mateša. Here you go.
