ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8340	We move to the next item of the agenda - Selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia Proposal for an act in accordance with Article 125. The Constitution and Article 57 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were delivered by the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials to the benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. President of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, Honorable Vice-President of House Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Constitutional Court, informed the Croatian Parliament on 6 June 2007, that on 7 December 2007, the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was: Smiljka Sokol, Marijana Hrranjski, Ivana Mrkonjic, Vica Vukojevic, Petar Klaric and Mili Rajić, Jasni Omej and Ivan Matija. At its meeting on 13 September 2007, the Croatian Parliament decided on the election of 3 Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and that of Marko Babić, Snježana Bagić and Jasna Omejec, and at the meeting of 4 October 2007 the decision on the selection of two judges of the Constitutional Court and that of Ivan Matija and Alda Radolovic. It was necessary to select three other judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for the Constitutional Court to continue to act in full. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6(1) The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the procedure for the candidate of the Constitutional Court judges and the proposal for elections of the Croatian Parliament is carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament referred in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia calls for judicial institutions, law schools, the Bar Association, legal associations, political parties, other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the selection of 3 judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the invitation was published in the "National Journal" 26 of this year since 29 February 2008. The deadline for the application was 60 days, and the last day for the application was 28 April 2008. The candidates Senada Bajramović, Slavica Banic, Branko Čizeka, Ivan Čizek, Andrija Eraković, Marija Jelusic, Mirjana Jurisic, Mirko Klinžić, Pere Kovacevic, Antonija Kovacic, Boris Kozjak, Ljubice Lalić, Toncija Tajice, Djordje Maravic, Zoran Pičuljana, Milke Savić, Duske Sarin, Mladen Turkalja and Marija Vukelic arrived on time. The Committee found that all candidates meet the conditions for selecting the Constitutional Court judges established by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and accepted the candidates the Committee called for public talks on all candidates. During the public conversation, members of the board referred to the candidates questions on the basis of which they gained the impression of candidates as professionals and persons. Article 6(4) of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia provides that the committee responsible shall, on the basis of the data collected and the results of the public conversation, draw up a list of candidates entering a narrow selection for the judges of the Constitutional Court and, as a rule, contain more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected. After the talks were held, the committee concluded that the list of candidates entering the narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia consists of four candidates voted by the most members of the board. For all four proposed candidates, all four proposed candidates received the same number of votes. When setting out the proposal for a list of candidates entering the short election for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee took into account the observed excellence highlighted in the résumé of a particular candidate and the impression of a public conversation, it also took into account the respect of the Constitutional Provision on Gender Equality and the participation of a number of women in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law of the Republic of Croatia also gives an explanation showing why it gave the individual candidate an advantage among other candidates. For Slavica Banic, the head of the Croatian Government's legislation, the committee has been defined because of the prominent action in the profession, public action and the positive impression from the public conversation. For Marija Jelusic, the committee was defined on the basis of its scientific and professional action as a professor at the Department of Constitutional Law in Zagreb, public action and a positive impression from the public conversation. For Mirjana Jurusic, the current judge of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee has been defined for its professional action in the administrative field, the achievement of top-level work results, continuous professional training, the course of work experience, the comprehensive support of the profession and the positive impression from the public conversation. For Duška Sharin, the current judge of the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, the committee was defined for its burden of scientific achievement in the area of constitutional law, public action and a positive impression from the public conversation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, with a proposal for a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, also provides a list of all candidates who meet the conditions for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and complete documentation. The Committee points out that the procedure for running and proposing the selection of 3 judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was conducted completely transparently at committee meetings and public talks were also attended by representatives of the GONG and the media. In conclusion, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a list of candidates who enter the narrow selection for the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and to Slavica Banic, Marija Jelusic, Mirjana Jurisic and Duško Sarin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8342	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal for a decision to elect 3 judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was sent by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution which prescribes that the procedure of running for judges of the Constitutional Court and proposing to elect the Croatian Assembly shall be carried out by the Board of the Croatian Assembly responsible for the Constitution, the Judge of the Constitutional Court may, therefore, be chosen by a person who is a Croatian citizen, a graduate lawyer with at least 15 years of professional experience and who, in this profession, stands out by scientific and professional work or by his public action. Also, a person who has acquired a PhD in legal science fulfils the conditions may be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court if he has at least 12 years of working experience in the profession. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system fully implemented the procedure for proposing candidates in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law. Only the proceedings were initiated by publication of a public call to judicial institutions, law schools, the Bar Association, legal associations, political parties and other legal persons and individuals in terms of proposing candidates for one or more judges of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, over a period of 60 days, the committee held talks with all candidates, so there were 19 candidates who met the conditions for the election, and the basis of the talks and the collected data made up a list of candidates, candidates entering a narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court. That list shall contain more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected and as prescribed in Article 6(4). Constitutional law. It should also be noted that the proposal for a decision itself also contains a valid explanation of why an individual candidate is given an advantage over other candidates, and a list of all candidates who meet the conditions for selecting a judge of the Constitutional Court has been forwarded to the Croatian Assembly. Accordingly, the Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club suggests joining the Constitutional Court's election by a secret vote, noting that 77 votes are required for the right choice, so most of the total number of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8344	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8345	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The choice of judges of the Constitutional Court as I have before has been highlighted by a festival of democracy, a festival of rights for every civilised and legal state. Unfortunately, the elections of the Constitutional Court judges in the Republic of Croatia are not only this time but they are also very far from a large and real festival, they are approaching more than once the Court of Justice, which is not particularly in the function of those values that should be achieved and provided by the choice of the Constitutional Court judges. I will visit, the judges of the Constitutional Court are the guarantees of the rule of law, the judges of the Constitutional Court are the control of democracy, constitutionality, in some respects are above the highest political institutions of this country, including the President of the Republic and this Parliament. What's wrong with what's going on? When you look at the Constitutional Law, when you look at the norms, the procedure is mostly said respected. Yes, it is. However, the procedure also has some of its implications, unspeakable values in the very norms that exist, which are read, just as the conditions for the judges of the Constitutional Judge are not only those that write in the Constitutional Law. That may sound strange, but there's another implicit condition missing, which is that these Constitutional Court judges amongst us lawyers must be the best. They have to be the best, it doesn't say, but it's kind of supposed to be. The best and most moral of those who deal with the legal profession and who we want to choose. If it may not always be about the best lawyers, we have the other aspect there, then it is about those who have particularly highlighted themselves by their social action and public work and who, together with those best lawyers, are the guarantees of all the highest constitutional values, human rights and all the other values that so well implicates our Constitution. In addition, the choice and procedure of electing the Constitutional Court judges assumes something else. That's why because of this great, great importance and the task that the Constitutional Court judges have, it's assumed that even though it's not going to say it anywhere, we know that there's something behind the norm. It is assumed that its additional or even stronger legitimacy will draw the judges of the Constitutional Court from a certain social context and the quality of the procedure for their election, which will guarantee them that additional reputation, that halo the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. Unfortunately, this is exactly where we have made the most of the mistakes and all these numerous elections that have been made, disputed from the very beginning of the Republic of Croatia, to this day, are actually destroying the reputation of the Constitutional Court itself, and even some judges, and even in a way that is below, well below what these people deserve. We have indeed had excellent and honorable judges of the Constitutional Court, we have them today, we may choose some of these candidates, or most of the candidates are honorable people. And do they really meet these and unwritten conditions that the procedure and the general concept of the Constitutional Court expect and seek to elect a judge. Where did we go wrong? We were wrong not to provide this broader social consensus because the procedure was so. It was formal, and so wrote our Vice-President Shakespeare, Vice-President of the Parliament and Vice-President of the Constitution Committee, but it failed to meet this other solution. This is one legal-political criterion by which we choose, let's not close our eyes to it, and we would have to ensure that the best and most honorable among the lawyers are elected judges of the Constitutional Court and that the world-famous ones enjoy a certain representativeness, a broader acceptability in Croatian society. Unfortunately, the ruling party is now not for the first time practicing something that comes out of the perhaps unwritten normative system of selection of some bodies and of some individuals in this House. There are some criteria for a democratic parliament such as the criteria for the authorities to be led by the opposition. Let us remember the whole story of the conflict of interest and the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Let's look at the composition of the board dealing with the fight against corruption. So we missed and this time provide such a consensus that will ensure that the authority and legitimacy of the Constitutional Court judges are unquestioned. I personally see it as a serious legal problem, see it as a serious political problem and see it as a problem of functioning and trust, of general trust, of broad trust in the Constitutional Court. What's the consequence? Besides, unfortunately, we don't get the best amongst us, we see that numerous calls, calls, and even this last one, are not the best amongst us. If you look at 19 candidates who have applied very little I have to say, regardless of probably all of them are really decent people and very decent lawyers, very few of them we could say are meeting these highest standards that we rightly expect from the judges of the Constitutional Court. It's precisely because the best and most honorable rarely accept participation in the procedure we've had this time. The truth is, the deadline for the application was long, but the deadline for the discussion, for the debate, for the public contestation, for the public questioning of candidates practically did not exist. The moment that it was clear which 19 candidates, they received allegedly phone calls, and one morning we messed it all up and today we're deciding the judges of the Constitutional Court. We have seen, have succeeded or been proud of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, that he respected gender equality, is, there are many more women than usual, it is positive, but, let's say, national minorities are not represented, if we are already talking about such criteria. Therefore, it seems to me that this procedure of election of Constitutional Court judges did not bring the best choice possible in the Republic of Croatia, that we did not have the best people in Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand that the procedure that the increasingly ruling majority practiced is such that it does not guarantee the legitimacy of the choice, does not guarantee the general public trust. And I must admit that I am sorry that the standards that this parliament has been known to adhere to in some other elections, therefore, certain public debates, certain attention and attention that different worlds are represented among the best of the best this time and unfortunately did not respect this time. The SDP club will not give or give any instructions to vote for this or that. Each of the MPs, because it is a secret vote, because it is the choice of each of us individuals, will by their conscience assess whether the proposed, unfortunately only four candidates, there were others who at this level of criteria could enter and allow one better choice, therefore, which of them is best in the sense that they deserve a choice for the Constitutional Court judge. And we only hope that the ruling majority in some other elections that come and not only choices, but also other important issues relating to the whole country, which relate to the democratic functioning of the state, will act differently than it has done on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8346	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Chairman of the Constitution Committee, Mr. Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8347	The honourable representative, on behalf of the SDP club, Mr Ivo Josipovic, presented several valuable courts and several of his reflections for which I, as chairman of the Committee, am obliged to give a certain answer. One... Mr. Josipovic, who deserves special attention, is that the board that established the narrow list of candidates should have taken care of it, or rather say that he did not take enough care of the world's view. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a very interesting thesis that implies that the board established a narrow list of candidates, while not taking care of certain world views. The Committee is not, nor should or should be managed by any world-wide horizons. Lights fall within the sphere of ideology and doctrine and religious beliefs, not those that need to be managed by the Constitution Committee. Another thesis that does not stand, which is very questionable, counterpart Josipovic says did not apply to the best people. What is the criterion, which is that judge and arbiter who will evaluate and judge and judge that the best people have not made this public call, that of these 19 candidates who have reported themselves not to be the best people. And third, that the procedure for which you pointed out to be formally correct, that despite what is not unspeakable, which should be involved in selecting candidates, what is unsaid, which should in some way mean that this procedure does not guarantee the legitimacy of the choice. It guarantees the legitimacy of the election. Here's just an example I'm going to give you. In its term of office from 2000 to 2003, three judges of the Constitutional Court were held in March 2001. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has received 24 applications, concludes that it proposes 3 candidates. On the basis of the debate, he established a narrow round of 7 candidates, including a secret vote of 3 and the Croatian Parliament elected all three judges. In 2002, a procedure was conducted for selecting a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Committee carried out the application procedure, received 7 applications and decided to propose one candidate who had been set by a secret vote in two circles and elected one judge. It was therefore in the term of office from 2000 to 2003 when it was political... It's different than it is now in this assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In its term of office from 2003 to 2007, one Constitutional Court judge was to be elected in February 2007. The Committee on the Constitution accepted 4 candidates, concludes that it proposes 2 candidates who set out by a secret vote, then no candidate in the Croatian Parliament received the required number of votes, the number of votes. In May 2007, the Committee held a re-election procedure for one Constitutional Court judge, received 3 applications, proposed two candidates who were set by a secret vote. Since one of the proposed candidates withdrew his candidacy, another proposed candidates were elected to the Croatian Parliament. In July 2007, a procedure was conducted for the selection of 8 judges of the Constitutional Court. The board received 24 bids, decided to propose 10 candidates, which it set out by a secret vote. The Croatian Parliament has chosen three judges. In October 2007, 5 judges were elected, 17 candidates received, the Committee concludes to propose 7 candidates and select two judges. I would like to say, therefore, that, in a formal sense, it is impeccable in all these elections for the Constitutional Court, from 2000 to today, strictly respected legal and formal procedures and that this procedure has been carried out in the same way as in the same cabins and in the exact same and transparent manner as in this election. And about whether they are running and whether they are the best, the best, the most moral, the most honorable, the most conscious people on this subject can be the judge only in this way by making their decision. There is no other way, because everything else is just subjective value thinking and a court of law and an assessment of whether someone who answered or who did not report whether it belonged to the very top of the moral public verticals of this society. That is why I think it is true and with full public presence all committee meetings were open to journalists who participated in the work of the board and vote, debates, by GONG. So everything has indeed been done in the most transparent and most democratic way and I ask that this proposal be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8348	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8349	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I could say this in just a few sentences, or perhaps only in one sentence, which is that this was an opportunity for a constitutional court to elect a member of minority communities in the Republic of Croatia because there were several candidates who had enough qualifications to make that choice. However, our SDSS and other minority representatives are leading coalition partners, so the Croatian Democratic Community decided not to. And we at the SDSS club think that's not good. We feel that it is not good that it was not taken into account that at least between this four or five proposals there was no one and there were opportunities this time more than the last time and in the year in which we adopt the Action Plan to improve the participation of members of minority communities in the judiciary, the public administration, this was in some way a crown opportunity to show that we are really going in that direction. Which is why it didn't happen. I could say I don't dare think. And that is why the SDSS club will hold a meeting after these words and see how it will refer to the election or voting for the Constitutional Court judges. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8350	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8351	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President. A question needs to be asked again, as counterpart Josipovic asked on behalf of the club. Why doesn't a public call like this come out the best? Says colleague Shakespeare who they are, so it's a court of law. Of course, it's a court of law, and it's precisely because that's the way value courts need to be discussed and what there is and there should be one unanimity, such people, and if they came forward last time they no longer appear because they don't want to participate in such a procedure that isn't even formally respected, let alone content. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court requires that each candidate be proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of several candidates here at the plenary session. And you see what this procedure is like? This procedure is a primitive democracy, a limping democracy. In such an important and important job, appointing, selection of 19 candidates, four are proposed here to the plenary session, please. For what? Why only four? So that the rulers can remember, so if they screw up for one, then that fourth can pass. So how else do you spread that? I'm not saying if it's an insult or not. This is an insult to an institution like the Constitutional Court, this is an insult to all candidates, this is an insult to the citizens. There was a big argument here on behalf of the board. You see, that with such an explanation they explained why some candidates are better than others then they could partly even agree with the proposal but this proposal for a decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is formally unworthy because there is no basic assumption imposed by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, there is no argument and there must be a clear norm for each individual. The Constitutional Law says constitutional judges are elected from the ranks of prominent lawyers who have proven themselves in their work, in their work, in public action, and lists the taxing conditions. And you see what we have in mind, copying legal provisions and these terms. So it is said so almost for all candidates of this committee who have been decided because it says it is proposed because of its public action. So what is this public action? That needs to be explained. And everything that's taxed here isn't worked out, it's just a copy of the law. It can then be hardened for any candidate. It's mocking the constitutional law. It can't be like that. Well, the Constitution Committee can't do that. Rewrite the law and say it's an explanation. And yet, you see, some arguments, you need to be honest, there's basically the best candidate, there's the best candidate. Who stood out, who was clear to everyone that he was the best candidate. A colleague of Mirjana Juricic, is not prescribed for her, the terms of the law are not prescribed. Anyway, since there was something to say, there was something to say, and then it was said that this particular lady, that candidate, she achieved the best work results, continuous and professional training, and so on. Because it's obvious, because it's objectively out there from those, from those contributions that apply to the application. Well, you see, for others there isn't, there isn't. It may have been necessary to try to find them, as counterpart Josipovic said. So there are honorable men and men who are worthy. The larger majority fell off the proposal. And then it is denied the Plenary's session to vote on them, on those proposals. So, this proposal has no arguments, no arguments. So it's not a form either, it's not satisfied. Something else that is very important is not satisfied, because this choice is happening suddenly yesterday, the day before yesterday, it's all over. What's the rush? I guess if the public doesn't get to know some characteristics, it's gonna take some time, they're gonna have to mature the conditions. I'm not saying that choice must be made based on public conversation and gossip, but certainly the public has the right to know, the public has the right to say something. Although the final decision here is what we're making. Not to get... some prints and inscriptions, but to be afraid and to check some facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's boring here for colleagues, because democracy is boring for them, which, which is what you're talking about now, is what they say when it's no use to you anyway. It was the same thing, it reminds me, forgive me for... At the candidate's hearing where he's spinning, it's boring, we have to listen to them and we've already decided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, democracy really shouldn't be a show, but it's still like that with us, and what's not good for Croatia, it's not good for anyone. But apparently, the ruling thinks it's a good thing. So here's an example of why they think maybe that's good. In the past term and in the beginning, therefore, somewhere since 2004, the SDP has sought a constitutional court's reaction in several lawsuits and several initiatives to launch a constitutional assessment procedure. Some of them were very urgent because the late decision-making becomes immaterial. By the year, there will be some local elections again, and a reaction is required precisely as to the local and legality of the local elections, specifically in the city of Zadar. To this day, there is no decision. Well, as it will be, we'll wait even further, but as a political party we wait, we don't wait for it for ourselves, we wait for the citizens. Is this something that is good and in all developed democracies it is not a deal or trade, but it is one conversation between parties, political parties that decide to agree on the quality of people. To explain, to talk about these candidates. We tried something on the board, but most of them kept their mouths shut, not a word of the candidate's reasoning, not one word, but we're going to a secret vote. Is that an explanation? Of course, after the debate, the decision was to be followed. Why hide behind secrecy, and nothing about these candidates is said in the committee's explanation. Not a single word. Why? Therefore, the public did not get to know each other, and the public will learn about many later on about those who have passed and those who have not passed. But that's not the right way, it's not the spirit of the law, it's not the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, it's not even about democracy, it's only about force, political one almost terror, most of it over the minority, but that's the least it should be about these things. But what do you wonder? We seem to be constantly surprised. If you are able to change and the law to deprive certain personnel solutions and positive legal movements that in certain places there must be a position, exactly, the position of the opposition exactly, for the sake of control, here is the law on preventing conflicts of interest, then surely this is not a step forward, but two steps back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8352	Ma'am, you mentioned the word terror. Do not mention the word terror at all in any form in the Croatian Parliament, because worse than the terror of the majority is the terror of the minority, it is even worse. It's another thing. You object to her being expressed boringly, the Rules of Procedure are not prohibited from expressing boredom, and when we prescribe that, then we will warn MPs so that they should not express boredom when some MPs speak. And now we have one, two corrections and one replica. First is Mr Emil Tomljanović's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, as a member of the board, I have to correct the two incorrect allegations that the distinguished colleague said. First. The procedure is not respected. Absolutely incorrect, procedures and provisions of the laws governing this matter of the Constitutional Law are fully respected. So it even looked out for the smallest bits, especially in terms of leadership and talks with candidates, and of course other elements concerning procedures. That's what you need, what you say to point out and point out. And, of course, that inaccurate allegation that my colleague says there's no explanation for the candidates. It's precisely in these materials that you've been given an explanation, for candidates, and just as the law provides for arguments in materials to be written. Therefore, the arguments are there for each candidate in terms of meeting the conditions for being a candidate for the Constitutional Court Judge. So absolutely incorrect. And I think this is just for a reason because a colleague is also a member of the Constitution Committee to misinformed the public. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8354	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8355	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to these incorrect allegations already corrected by counterpart Tomljanovic, a colleague said this was a mockery, that she was denying at the plenary session that she was voting which was not true too and said that, that such a composition of the proposal that is ahead of us was so that the ruling could remember. My colleagues, unfortunately, are ruling much better and much more remembered than you'd like to and what you're imputing, so they remember the time when you've taken your party decisions from all the institutions from 2000 to the end of 2003, and they also remember that you, your party, are the follower of the party that created the totalitarian system, which gave orders for executions, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8356	Please! Please! Do not go over when correcting an incorrect quote to qualify. I don't think this part of the correction is correct. We also have a replica, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's how fellow Matusic remembers those times. He probably had a lot of active participation back then. But I would like to replicate my colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. This is indeed colleagues Marinović-Anticevic one, two steps back and not one forward, because one such important topic is trying to push through the small door with the will of the HDZ majority and in some way one topic which should not be as fellow Shex said exclusively worldly, but also legal. He wants to make most of it work in some way. That this is how it is seen and therefore, since 19 candidates, 4 candidates have been best for all members of the board by the HDZ. So it's very amazing that all the best were voted on by the same splinter of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8358	Answer by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8359	You see, colleague Maras, this isn't about memory, it's about actual spirit. The past system is condemned, but out of many heads there is no such spirit to come out, so then the explanation we have now seen is, supported, at least an oral explanation why these candidates are chosen. Because sometimes the party is that and that and that, so that's the argument he's contrasted with, then it won't be the ones he doesn't have to do anymore, but it's what we're gonna do. That's a bad explanation for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. And I also want in support of what you've turned on, which is why you've drawn attention to one such, such an institution. Well, that should change the Constitution, change the constitutional law so that people under 50 can't come. It must be people not only with knowledge, but with great experience, people who must have the ability to synthesize, that kind of thinking. It can only bring experience. Well, you've been waiting here for a candidate to meet those mere formal conditions of 12 years of service, so even the contest, or the invitation to that appointment period, came to that very candidate. That's why she wasn't named because it was already too late, so here it is now, it's one reservation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8360	There was one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8361	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 210 has been injured. A colleague of Maras, did Maras, in some ways offended him by making the untrue attempt to impute how I participated in some party, communist times. Dude, in those days, I was running from the police because I sang Christmas songs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8362	It's not some breach of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Vladimir Seks, Chairman of the Constitution Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8363	There's something else about the procedure. Again repeated by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic and members of this committee are objecting to its exposure to the procedure, to certain aspects of the procedure. The board, when he called the ad, had enough time for two months, 60 days for all candidates to report, all institutions to report. After that, one day the board sat down with small breaks and breaks from 10 to 17 hours, 7 hours, where it had previously determined that all candidates of 19 meet the formal requirements, that they had submitted within the deadline. So, from the legal point of view of a valid, valid candidacy, and afterwards we went to the conversation. Four candidates in an hour. Time was left for all board members to present and ask their questions. It's me, it's all the media. He was a GONG, an NGO. I have briefly read the resume of every candidate of all 19. I gave them a chance to expose themselves to whatever they want to add, change, explain, introduce themselves in any way. The members of the committee also took part in public opinion, representatives of the public, asked questions, clarifications, and all of this ran until the moment when, as chairman of the Committee, I did not propose as proposed by the chairman of the Committee and in the previous session in the election of the Constitutional Court judges, as also proposed by the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and in that meeting since 2000. Then it was Mr. Mato Arlovic. In this previous meeting, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic was in line with Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court lays down a narrow list of the candidate's narrow elections. I have suggested that the board establish four candidates who will go to the vote in the Croatian Parliament. Then there were objections why not all candidates who meet the terms, why not send everyone to the Croatian Parliament to vote and discuss them. The answer was then and now is because it is in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court where the Constitutional Committee lays down a narrow list, with more candidates on it than those elected. He did the same thing, I will repeat once again, I will repeat that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system did so in that term from 2000 to 2003 when the chairman of the Committee was a colleague of Mato Arlovic from the SDP when the Committee on the Constitution received 24 bids, identified them as valid, and three went to the Parliament. Or when he received 7 bids in 2002, and then it didn't work out any more, one more than is elected, but decided to propose one candidate. And now he's complaining about why it didn't work out. Second question of speed, haste. In this 2007 election to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, complaints about a haste were placed on the table. Why are we in a hurry? Why is he in such a hurry? Well, the same procedure was when a public ad was called in 2000 and 2001 and 2002, only then, unlike in this election, it was far more hasty because it was far shorter deadlines. The deadlines were 15 days, not like in this case when he was 60 days old. So the board also discussed it the same way he's been discussing it now. Following a discussion on the committee, the candidates received were also introduced in the course of this examination, a special examination of the candidates. So there's no rush, there's no difference at all in a pace like it was in those elections when the board president was and most were in the hands of the coalition, when it was first in the hands of the SDP and the coalition partners. There was no difference in pace or time difference. There are also no further claims that the law is prescribed. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic claimed that the law was prescribed in that part, so it is simply in the explanation, that it was not delivered why it was given priority over some other candidates. It is. You see, you said it was only done in terms of candidate Mirjana Jurisic. It is also for the view of candidate Slavica Banic. It is noted because of its outstanding performance in the profession. It was mentioned for Marija Jelusic, on the basis of his, why he was defined on the basis of his scientific and professional action as a professor at the Department of Constitutional Law in Zagreb. It is also mentioned for candidate Duško Sharin for her commitment and scientific achievement in the area of constitutional law, with all other criteria. Therefore, an explanation was given in all other cases in the run for both 2000 and 2001 and 2007 and, now, there were always such reasons, it was not some broad epic argument to combine and state all possible reasons why a candidate was given priority over other candidates. In several sentences, an explanation was given as to why the advantage was given. So, I don't think there was any rush, that the procedure was strictly respected. This has also been pointed out by NGOs all together and that there is no way of talking about the insufficiency of democratic legitimacy in the process, and at least that it is about force or the terror of the majority over the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8364	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8365	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I've always been impressed by the ability and knowledge and the political and legal vice president of Mr. Vladimir Seks's Parliament. Now I'm quite certain of it sitting in these benches. In the past decade, I've been making sure of something by watching TV and watching these shows. And indeed what he says is difficult to challenge, especially to us who are not lawyers. However, I would like to speak as a representative of voters and a politician who sees politics as a compromise possible and as a pragmatist under certain circumstances. Therefore, I will try to say some things that are not legally, formally based, but are in some way good practice or good customs. I am a witness, not through the Parliament, but through a policy of the 1990s, some of the things that happened when I, as a member of the tight leadership of the SDP, influenced or participated in the talks, agreements and compromises. And at the time of the late Dr. Franje Tudjman went to a consensus or agreement when it came to important matters for the Republic of Croatia. There are three things that are important to the Republic of Croatia to me right now. The European Community, NATO Pact and the Constitutional Court. It pains me and saddens me when some MPs react a lot the way you did it, so why don't you do it to me now. I don't think that's good for Croatia. It's not good for the messages we send to the citizens. If, and surely, the coalition power from 2000 to 2003 has been doing stupid things, let's not call, I apologize, President. Thank you very much in advance, she's made mistakes, so we shouldn't make mistakes in 2008. I hope so, too, and I have entered the Parliament with the hope that we will improve democracy in this country, because both war and war problems and conflict problems, ideological conflicts have actually grown into something that is necessarily developed democracies, which mostly comes down to those 2% or 3% higher or lower tax rates. And so I'm not going in or trying to read the candidate's biographies, but I wish there was a little more time between the conditionality, the narrow choice of candidates and the moment we decide. I agree not because the media is evil, bad because of these or those interests, because of these or those groups suggest that someone is not good but that we may have moments of time ourselves to question certain information or certain data. I don't want to doubt in advance, it's really a bad variant of getting into something that we doubt people and predicate ourselves negatively. We will rather act in good faith, believing that we choose the best of those who have come. But I repeat, it would be good to take a step forward especially here's a colleague of Pupovac's who presented one piece of information that I don't think is negligible. In view of all that we are doing in the approximation of the European Union, given the number of laws we have discussed, which we will still vote on today and those we will consider in the coming periods of harmonisation with the European Union, that we have also taken account at that moment and that we have also sent a significant message to the public, but also to Europe. It is a political interest to look pragmatically, each ruling majority at a time when they have the opportunity to choose judges whether the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court, in the American system, is a Supreme Court, trying to push through either political or other people close to them, and it is a right that is difficult to challenge, however. However, I repeat, some things do not need to be conscious and naked in pure form, but they need to be kept in mind for some time and content. So I repeat, I don't give the value courts about these candidates and all the candidates, I'm talking about something that I think if it doesn't go through this time, but in the next election, we're going to change every act for the better because as far as I know, none of them are immutable, and we've changed the Constitution, we've probably changed it, we're going to change it, or we're going to change those who will come after us, in accordance with the needs of our membership in the European Union, in accordance with the needs of social development. Once again, I call on the left and the right to the smaller bile, but on several attempts not to agree together because it is difficult to achieve consistency, but to find as many common touch points in making decisions in such important matters as members of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8366	Thank you. If I'm allowed to agree to this proposal by Mr. Ivan Hanzek. Well, even these 10 we've chosen so far, it's still a match, you know. It's not all black. Let's not feel like there's always been some tension. Let's say my good colleague and 90's attorney and good man, good judge, Ivan Matia was elected with over 100 votes isn't that saying... So I agree with you and I appeal here if I can go to it. [[You don't understand.]] It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8367	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8368	I'm sorry, my bad. There's one correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8369	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said incorrectly that it is not good for mistakes in 2008 to be made in the process of electing constitutional judges to justify themselves by errors in 2001 or 2002, and no one has spoken or justified, nor is there an error in the procedure now. This you could clearly hear from the board president, that the procedure was fully respected, that neither the deadlines were cut, so the deadline was appropriate. It was just a matter of previous procedures, which were also within the framework of the law. So it was said that it was handled in procedures that were also within the framework of the law. So no one makes any mistakes, because there are no mistakes in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8370	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Constitutional Court will probably agree to this, one of the most important institutions in the state. He does not just decide on the constitutionality of the laws passed by this House. It also decides on the constitutionality of the political parties' actions and may prohibit the work of a political party if it considers that it operates beyond the Constitution, it also decides on the responsibility of the President of the Republic. Therefore, the Constitutional Court should not only be the Supreme Legal Authority but also be the Supreme Moral Authority in the State. We should get into it the best of the best. It's hard to tell who's the best of the best, as fellow Shakespeare says. Someone has to make a decision about that. The decision is made by this body, this Parliament. It would be good, however, if the decision, which is the best of the best in the country, was made by a broad consensus, to be one agreement between the public and this parliament. That, however, is not there. There was no public debate, the deadline for the application was 60 days long, but the decision-making deadline is expressive. Someone has to make a decision I say, and that decision is made by this Parliament, but there is no consensus in the Parliament, not only between the minority and the majority, which would be desirable, there is no consensus as we hear even within the parliamentary majority. Minorities, says counterpart Pupovac, are left out of a decision. And then he adds, I daren't even think why. Well, I dare and think and say. The HDZ was, is and is likely to remain the same on this issue since it was established until today. Wherever it is possible to respect the procedure and respect the procedure to disqualify minorities, especially if it is a Serb national minority, HDZ will do so. And now procedures are respected, impeccable respect, but no respect for attitude, not even a coalition partner. Co-operation with the Serb minority is only imagined to HDZ when the majority is needed to vote the government. I leave it to the SDSS, their leadership and those they represent here in this House, whether such cooperation will be enough for them and for the future. This term of office of this assembly does not last half a year, and it did not start well. And don't think so. Here at the National Anti-Corruption Committee, the same important body, will choose persons exclusively at the will of the HDZ majority. There are those who even speak in public as prominent anti-corruption fighters. Here, the Committee of Conflict of Interest will also elect eight people at the will of the HDZ majority, 11 of them. Three straight from the party and five more from the so-called. Independent, at the will of the parliamentary HDZ majority. And today, we will also vote two judges of the Constitutional Court at the will of the HDZ majority. Not even in cooperation with the coalition partner, let alone in cooperation with the entire Parliament, and what to talk about with the public. The procedure is respected, that's what my colleague Shakespeare keeps saying, and there's no objection there. But there is an action that is beyond procedure, which implies will, political will, the desire to name in some bodies, important bodies, the best. These wills are missing, these sincere desires. This certainly gives birth to a lack of confidence in the quality of decision that is procedurally correct, but since it does not really guarantee the choice of the best, it comes to what Professor Josipovic was talking about, that they are not even running because they know how the decision is made. Well, if they know for themselves that they can't be at the will of HDZ because of their world-class not strictly HDZ, then they don't answer, they're completely discouraged. Says Shakespeare, it's hard to tell who's the best. Of course. Of course it's a subjective assessment then. But when it's decided how it's decided, then they're discouraged in advance, they give up before the competition. It is hard to tell who is the best, but for one of the proposed candidates, she herself says she has been published with professional papers, articles in the Croatian Public Administration and a newsletter of the Croatian National Assembly at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It's a qualification. These are scientific papers. In the newsletter of the Croatian Parliament, delegation of the Croatian Parliament. Well, be careful, if we don't have better legal experts in this country to publish better works in more scientifically important bulletins than the newsletters of the Croatian Assembly, then let's choose that, or choose. Or choose, but you must know and the public must know that you choose. Of course it's possible and it's completely understandable to laugh on the right. That, it totally agrees with the attitude, the haughtiness and the way to decide. With the procedure at all something about selecting judges of the Constitutional Court is wrong. If we vote the Constitution by a two-thirds majority, then I guess those who interpret the Constitution should be chosen by a two-thirds majority. They're chosen as qualified in this House. That would lead to consensus. But, look, a consensus should not be driven by one who understands the essence of democracy, should not be driven by legal or constitutional provisions. It would be for someone whose democracy is on the heart, who thinks democratically, who lives democraticly, who wants this country to be democratic, who would act without being forced by the Constitution. He would try to achieve a two-thirds majority when he doesn't have to. He would agree with a coalition partner if it wasn't for the government's vote. ... I would ask that those who have had a bit of a drink step away because we are being disturbed by the sober in the Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8372	That's when they'd lose the quorum if they threw it all out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8373	He's throwing it away. Look, a sober man doesn't throw. The judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected by the will of the HDZ... not by the parliamentary majority's will, not even by a coalition partner. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] They will therefore be HDZ constitutional judges and such legislation will have throughout the years of its term of office. You don't do well with those people either. They will thus be stigmatised as HDZ constitutional judges. So I said you didn't get off to a good start on some important things. It's your right, it's the right of the majority and you'll spend it on that I have no doubt. But your beginning is neither wise nor even less democratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8374	Thank you. We have three corrections. First is Mr. Miroslav Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8375	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am not a constitutional-legal expert but the incorrect allegation that has been repeated repeatedly was that the judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected by the HDZ majority and it is important to say especially for the people who follow us that as Stazic himself said they choose a qualified majority, so it takes 77 votes. The HDZ in the assembly is 66. So that's enough. It will also need votes and coalition partners and other people who feel they should vote how they will vote, so that is the incorrect assumption that I want to correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8376	Thank you. Mr. Frano Matušić correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8377	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the allegations that, at the same time, the insult addressed to HDZ, which counterpart Stazic said was trying to disqualify national minorities through the procedure, especially the Serb national minority. That's not true, that's not true, and it has nothing to do with the metrics here at all. The second thing, HDZ absolutely respects the rights stemming from the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and in the judicial authority, they are represented in the manner in which the law does not apply to the Constitutional Court of fellow Stazic. And it's not about any HDZ lights or any HDZ constitutional judges. We will, in the procedure prescribed by law today, choose with a qualified majority of course, as Col. Skoro said before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8378	Thank you. Correction Mr. Kruno Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8379	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a fellow Stazic, in his distinctive style, put out a whole series of inaccuracies again. One of them is next to the other, according to public tenders, not those who are not likely to want HDZ, which is absolutely not true. Otherwise, counterpart Stazic would not have been so quick to defend some candidates who are either prone to SDP or SDP members, or something like that. It is evidence of his great struggle that all members of the fight against corruption, therefore also on the National Committee and the Commission, are from the SDP. Otherwise, it's no good. And why is that? Well, I guess it's to protect all the cities that have a lot of budgets so they can do whatever they want because that's where the SDP rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8380	It's already crossing into the second sphere of the agenda. Let's move on. Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8381	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the small door of the big agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament, a bunch of reports and small proposals for harmonising our legislation with European standards, three members or members of the vacated seats were forced into one of the most important constitutional institutions of our country. The Constitutional Court is a body that guards in the final instance our state-law order and inalienable human rights of all of us citizens and citizens. Personally, I believe that the election and election procedures of the constitutional judges require major changes in us. Comparative analysis of the election of constitutional judges in European countries shows that there are two fundamental definitions. One seeks to enable the choice of judges who will not be dependent on their choice by a single body of tripartite authorities, so that several authorities are involved in the selection of judges and most often executive and legislative and sometimes judicial bodies. In those countries where we have parliament as the only body participating in the election of constitutional judges, decisions are not left to the ordinary parliamentary majority, but as a rule the two-thirds majority is required, i.e. the same majority required for constitutional changes in those countries. I'll just mention some. Germany's two-thirds majority in both judges' home for 12 years without the possibility of reelection, Hungary two-thirds, Italy two-thirds in the first three rounds, three-fifths afterwards, Spain three-fifths, Portugal two-thirds. In all countries other than Hungary, a judge cannot be re-elected. All countries attach exceptional importance to the choice of constitutional judges, so I will say that although the system is different in the United States, the choice for judges of the Supreme Court is followed with the utmost attention if we exclude the presidential elections. Croatia is therefore one of the extremely rare states in which the election of constitutional judges is left to the nearest qualified parliamentary majority, most of the total number of MPs and no other branch of government participates in the election. Due to the extremely significant constitutional and political importance of the Constitutional Court in each civil state in which it exists, it seeks to ensure the independence and independence of the Constitutional Judges by means of a series of provisions in the Constitution or by the Constitutional Law and as transparent as possible the procedure for their election. In this regard, a series of provisions in the Constitution, the Constitutional Law and the Constitutional Court are important in us, but yet there is a repeat classic practice that our provisions are mostly good but that their implementation is mostly bad. That is why the mandates of the constitutional judges themselves last longer than the MPs because their expertise and transparency should apply to all possible parliamentary majority. For the independence of judges, the provision of Article 5 is important. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court which determines the conditions to be met by a person who can compete for a judge of the Constitutional Court. The emphasis is on the expertise and Article 16 in which it is prescribed that the Constitutional Court judge should not be a member of any political party or by his public action and by his actions may show his affection for any political option. But with us, the choice of these judges is carried out almost autonomously by the parliamentary majority, as Col. Skoro said, that is to say, a certain political option is imposed as its choice, which should represent and represent its political will to the Constitutional Court. No matter how many gentlemen you suggestors are always emphasising expertise before the Constitutional Court's election, it is indisputable that the political, ideological and social worldview will have an important and likely decisive impact on your proposals and your final choice. All these constitutional guarantees prescribed by us on the independence and independence of the Constitutional Court are supported by the added procedural guarantees of election procedures by constitutional judges not enough to prevent the election of candidates who will be the result of political rather than professional elections. The honor of extremely rare exceptions. It is highly likely that more candidates will have all the formal conditions required by the Constitution, i.e. by constitutional law. There is no doubt that a large number of legal experts, professors, judges, various state officials will be found who will not be challenged by anyone's expertise. But how do you compare an expert professor of legal science, a prominent Supreme Court judge, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, or a lawyer in a government body? Comparing lawyers in different, law-related activities will make it difficult to find comparable criteria of expertise. And as far as we know, there are no quotas of constitutional judges for certain categories of prominent lawyers such as professors, judges and state lawyers. I'd say this comparison of lawyers can be compared to whether a better athlete is a basketball player or a handball player. However, the political resemblance of judges is always discussed everywhere in all states that have constitutional courts or courts that have the same powers. However, in these countries, and in particular the countries of the European constitutional court tradition, it seeks to strike a balance between the criteria of expertise and the criteria of ideological and political similarities in a way that the second criterion is in the second and secondary and the criteria of expertise in the first plan. In addition, it strives that constitutional courts will not be filled with judges of any ideological or jujustrudence extremes, as they will be dominated by moderate judges. And how do you do that? Obviously, not only are the guarantees already contained in our Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court sufficient, but such a choice of judges will be the result of the consensus, or compromise of the most important political parties. The second should be defined for a long, one-and-a-half choice of judges in order to further strengthen the independence of the Constitutional Court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court should be amended. So that instead of revoteing the most important political options represented in Parliament, they would be forced to seek consensus. If possible in Germany, Spain, Italy or Hungary, why would it be impossible in Croatia? Let us also look to the practice of European Union countries, not to call on the EU only when it comes to the cover-up and distorted presentation of unpopular moves or the necessary measure of chicken eggs, for example. There are few but significant analytical discussions on the good and bad sides of individual models of elections to constitutional judges in the former Socialist states. But problems with the election are right now, but just problems with the election or appointment of constitutional judges in some countries of new democracies have focused the public's attention on the issue. This public attention is needed by us. But it must have become normal for us to have HDZ set up whoever they wanted, where they wanted to, and when they wanted to, without any big criteria. Well, colleagues and colleagues, if we are looking for Europe, if we are in line with European laws, don't let our practice be African. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8382	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8383	Well, here, Mr. Vice President, I think we should react again because of the untruth, he says, with us it's become normal HDZ to set up whoever it wants, where it will and without any criteria. Which is not true! The criteria exist, they all fit the criteria. And what a colleague means, probably like his predecessor, is that if someone is not a prominent left-handed person, those who are exclusively experts, everyone else is similar, so give the people, be normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8384	Please sit down, colleague Lucin. Come on, buddy. Mr. Representative Ante Djapic, please. Representative Ante Djapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So it would be very good if the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court was chosen by consensus, but it is not imperative in the work of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to remind all parliamentary deputies and MPs that constitutional judges were once elected by consensus, sometimes they did not, depending on the political relationship between the parties in the Croatian Parliament, or whether there was a will to agree. So I remind you of that great selection of judges in 98 when the practical consensus was chosen I think eight judges. So later there were some other situations where there was a bigger or smaller agreement, first of all between the HDZ and the SDP on the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. However, several issues have been raised through the debate today, which I felt was worth giving a comment from the Croatian party of rights and my own. So this is primarily a small controversy with the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure who said that the choice does not look at world surveillance. I would not agree with Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament that the election of the Constitutional Court judges does not look at the world's control of the candidates. This is where my colleague Hanzek mentioned when choosing the judges of the Supreme Court of America who... our Constitutional Court, to see who is politically close to which option, and especially to the world surveillance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are a society and a policy that will certainly bring before us a whole series of legislative regulations and procedures that will be world-controlled, very controversial, and that will rarely be given by the Croatian Constitutional Court in the end. So let me just mention some matter that sooner or later awaits this Assembly to discuss from homosexual marriages to medically assisted fertilization, from regulatory abortions, from euthanasia, that is for sure, I would say world-controlled issues that will sooner or later be on the agenda of the work of the Croatian Parliament. And certainly as the Croatian Parliament makes decisions on these topics, they will be found for sure in the Constitutional Court. And in my opinion, it is not necessary to run away from the choice of constitutional judges to choose both people and to take care of their worldly oversight and to seek for sure and balance in both their choices and theirs. I just remind myself that I'm not just taking America as an example, that one of the most important issues in the last ten years has been and it's always too much, it's a knap position on whether to be elected judges of the Supreme Court who are for abortion or against abortion. So surely there will come a time when and in the Constitutional Court of Croatia will be about these important things that we do not open in the Assembly now, sooner or later, will be opened as a problem that exists and will not be able to put under the carpet forever will be extremely important what are the world-controlled positions of judges of the Constitutional Court. The second issue raised here as a serious issue was the issue of representatives of national minorities in the judicial government. This is where counterpart Matušić said there is no obligation for the Constitutional Court to do so. It would be good for the board president to confirm that, because in that case, therefore, that objection is not, I would say, those forces he would otherwise have, if the Constitutional Court is required legally to be present and representative of the national minority. What was said about the criteria, about the quality of the candidates that I would always say about the legal profession, there are objective criteria there. But with the entire person elected to elect a constitutional judge, it's not just the primary fact that they are both excellent lawyers. This implies that the candidate for a Constitutional Court judge certainly has his own legal path, that he knows the law by certain categories, and apparently that the Committee also pointed out that all 19 candidates and candidates had a formal legal condition for candidacy. And these other qualities have no one else to evaluate, but also the Croatian Parliament. It would be good if you agreed with consensus, but it's not imperative. It is not correct, nor parliamentary, I would say by conduct it would be professional to question the quality and integrity of candidates and candidates who are currently candidates. I'd be here, maybe... when my colleague Bauk spoke of the weaknesses of the existing constitutional law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not 100% sure, so don't attack me right away unless I'm absolutely right. But here may be a colleague of Anticevic know that these judges are elected under the constitutional law that we passed in 2001. So, that these were amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and that they were practically chosen by it. Therefore, I am in favour of an agreement to amend and supplement this Constitutional Law. But it is important to point out and to know that he, at least I think so, was passed in time, and then by consensus even adopted if I am not mistaken, that all parliamentary parties voted to amend and supplement that constitutional law. What's important is getting out of a situation where the Constitutional Court has been in for a long time. So, constitutional judges are overworked by work, obligations, and it would be good to finally complete the rounding of that story about the election of the Constitutional Court judges. It would have been good if there had been more agreement and consensus. But again, I will point out that the consensus in this Croatian Assembly is sometimes about judges, the election of judges of the Constitutional Judges once followed, never followed. But I think it's really high time that this thing was resolved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8386	Replica. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8387	So here's a little replica. Again, I note that it is not a problem in the law, but the problem is that this Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is not respected today. Because I am saying that before and I repeat that the proposal for this decision does not contain an explanation in accordance with Article 6 which says that there must be an explanation for each candidate as well as an explanation for which this candidate is better than other candidates. There is no such thing from this decision, except in one of these cases when it comes to colleague Mirjana Juricic. That's one thing. The second thing is that for each candidate, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will refer its proposal to the plenary session, which contains more than one who is elected. And here we have 19 candidates, and only one more that we owe that number was to suggest even that it was only one candidate. So, if there was one candidate under the Constitutional Law, two were to be proposed, let alone one more, let alone when we have 19 candidates, only four were proposed. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8388	Replica, reply to the replica, Mr. Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8389	Thank you very much. Just a quick answer. Respecting the arguments made by counterpart Anticevic, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, I just wanted to point out because of the criticism tabled by my colleague Bauk on the existing Constitutional Law, that it was a law passed at the time of the ruling coalition and which, as far as I know, was adopted by consensus. But I also agree with the fact that it would be good in some things to change it, especially if it had to be literally spent while it was in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8390	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8391	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a very important question that we have received on the benches and material which is relatively small as regards the Committee itself on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which contains the proposal for a decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Judge of the Republic of Croatia, and we have 4 candidates for such honor, for such a high duty and for such an important place actually in the formation of the Republic of Croatia. However, when we observe the way members of the Constitutional Court are chosen, then I would say that it is more like common practice, to say to the sorry practice in the Republic of Croatia how supervisory committees and boards work in the selection of directors of companies, directors, etc. Almost identical. We were delivered here on the bench yesterday, the CVs of 19 persons were delivered, 19 people, 19 candidates for this I said a very honorable and very important place in the structure of the Republic of Croatia. I personally don't understand why the biographies of all 19 candidates were delivered, if the board to whom we gave our trust and if it was established by the parliamentary board and found that four candidates were in some way acceptable. When I promoted and read all these candidacys, then according to the criteria set out here in this proposal, I did not find that either those other candidates or at least most of them do not deviate from the criteria for which these four were selected. So there are no special career deviations, as he says here in his proposal says the observed excellence so in the legal service. Then, respect for the constitutional provision on gender equality and public conversation impressions. So that impression from the public conversation was crucial. So which is why we as representatives, so representatives in the Croatian Parliament can talk about it at all or why we decide if we do not have public talks with candidates. If this is the basic and in fact one of the main conditions that the candidates are selected by the board. Of the four candidates, here I am as an agent, I don't know if anyone else, why I don't even know why any of these candidates have to fall off. What will that decide about me as a representative of that waste, and these three go. So the criteria that are set and that write here are not enough to qualify for the quality of these candidates. Here, if these are already the judges of the Constitutional Court and the candidates for the Constitutional Court, it would be good to check their knowledge of constitutional law. I'm saying it wouldn't be good. About that, clearly I don't have any data, not a word. And as for the very way of choosing with which I started here, so just the fact that it's chosen by ordinary size, a qualified majority is equally a defeating figure for both left and right because it actually opens up doubts, or the possibility of doubting the objectivity of the choice at all because we know that the majority of them get an advantage over the choice of candidates. And that's the fact that, as Mr... introduced in 2001 during the coalition government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, and this is one practice that is unique to each other and this fight and the bickering of who is SKH, SDP, KPJ etc. That doesn't make any sense because those members are everywhere, left and right. And in the middle. Yeah. The only thing that I'm actually kind of happy about, and that's on the trail of yesterday's debate when she was a lawyer is that, the fact that here are today's four candidates that are proposed, three are, let me say female and one is male. So I'm really not even after this debate and after studying really all the résumés, I'm not really sure, here's still for your choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8392	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8393	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. There began to be a thesis and some argument that the law passed in 2001 had some sort of responsibility, co-responsibility, etc. If what Mr Djapic said was true that the law was then passed by consensus, it only shows that the opposition at the time was not afraid of those provisions because the practice of the then government was not as it was today, and that is why we were away from the Europeans and we approached the African standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8394	Second replica. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The problem of today's debate, and the colleague is in this particular procedural actions and powers of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, in which unfortunately we do not discuss when we discuss the Rules of Procedure or its additions, but when we apply it on a concrete example. In the last round of elections of the Constitutional Court judges, even earlier, I have suggested that in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, under the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Committee, we establish provisions that will contain a minimum time between the publication of the candidacy, public talks and the passage of at least 15 days that should pass after the Committee has completed its procedure of narrowing the list and referring to the debate of the Croatian Parliament. If we had accepted it then and introduced such a business provision into the Rules of Procedure, today we should not remember the provisions that each parliamentary representative, whether without a view or not, has the right to be present for this public conversation. Let this experience serve us for the next intervention in the Rules of Procedure, more clearly prescribe this procedure, and half of these arguments of misunderstandings will fall apart.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8396	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas. He's not here. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I'd like a few sentences, actually, to speak in principle. Here, and this example shows how independent the government's trio in the Republic of Croatia is. The way I choose I think it is not good and it is true that it was implemented according to all the rules, according to the Rules of Procedure, but when the Constitution is changed, then it takes a two-thirds majority here in the Croatian Parliament. The responsibility of constitutional judges is extremely high. Both legal and moral. I don't see a single reason why we choose such important functions, especially at the moment when we know what our judiciary is, not by our assessment, but by the assessment of people on the outside, but you'll agree with much of our assessment. I don't see a single reason why the Constitutional Court judges don't choose a two-thirds majority. Nineteen candidates were on call, and I have no doubt that all nineteen candidates meet the requirements. That they are prominent in the public, that they enjoy reputation both in the profession and in science. But you know what bothers me? It bothers me that one of the criteria is an extremely significant, general impression, says a positive impression from a public conversation. Well, now, I'd like to listen to board members who, based on the very positive impression of the conversation, have reached some conclusion. What kind of positive impression did they have? Could it be that, in the opinion of any board member, this judge was, uh, brown eyes, blue eyes? Maybe he was convincing in the conversation, maybe he liked the behavior. So I think that the knowledge of law can be very well learned by the basis of quantified elements. By checking my knowledge, I don't even want to talk about morals. They're kind of public people. Are these candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, whether a check has been made, whether it can happen again, say that between these four candidates who have been proposed, or 3 which the Croatian Parliament today votes, that again after a few months or a year we read to the media that one of the candidates did not pay the state tax, whether it will happen to us. Apparently, but it's a shame and a shame for us, too. That's what you need to react to. But I repeat, I'm going back to this choice. I'm not sure that's the kind of check that's been done. Because if it had been done before, it certainly would not have happened among the candidates, and now even the Constitutional Judges, here are these kinds of affairs in the media. So I think there is no reason not to change the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that the Constitutional Judges, if that is not the case now, are elected by a two-thirds majority. Then you might also avoid politicizing between left, right, centre, then you should and should reach consensus, but I think that would bring quality to the choice of constitutional judges. And then, for example, it wouldn't happen to us that in certain court decisions we have a case to explain, for example, when an investigation is conducted, it comes to the situation of the police, of course, that the suspect is even brought in by a minor child, not by entering into whether it's pressure or anything else. But what will a young child do in the police? Do you know how this justifies the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in its explanation? So she says police officers wanted to convince the defendant that her child was safe, so they brought her to the police. As the police, or suspect, threatened to take the child to a carefree child’s home, it certainly would not have been brought to her by the child if that threat had been correct, but would have made it impossible for her to have any contact with him and thereby potentiated her care for the child’s fate. Closed quote. So the police are bringing the child, but the Supreme Court finds in its explanation that it is perfectly fine, that this procedure is totally fine with the suspect, that we are not talking about the child, and it seems to me that the police and the child have kept in prison so that this argument of the Supreme Court would be even better and an even better example has shown that the institutions of the legal system do so. So I think these 19 candidates were really very good quality, professional people in the judiciary. A little time is, yesterday you provided us with data, it's a bunch of material with résumés about every candidate, and so is the opinion of the board, but you'll have to agree with me that this is politicised and I have such an impression, and I don't think I'm wrong, that it's still a political choice, because the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of 19 candidates has proposed only 4 and left us with a very short period of time in which it's impossible to think studioly in detail about each candidate and actually define itself for three of the four candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8398	Thank you. Five-minute debate, IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8399	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I think we should stop at the ball. The Constitutional Court and everyone said that, and I will repeat that, the institution gave no one the right to play with any institution, either, or the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court or any other institution shall not be held hostage by any IDS, SDP, HDZ, HNS, etc. etc. Games with one institution I think they stopped during yesterday after Governor Rohatinski came forward and I definitely want to believe that he cut off all speculations about devaluations that would turn us simply black and at a time when this country is due outside 34 billion euros. Only this year should one billion euros be paid back, etc. etc. The second thing I'm trying to say is, stop the court that the institution is a lot of play and a lot of trade with this court. We all remember that embarrassing 99th agreement between HDZ and SDP, and I am proud that I did not vote then and was in the assembly when, among other judges, the trade went no less than Mr Vukojevic did. Our Constitutional Court, on the other hand, has been working for a year in the british system. Our Constitutional Court has no president. The president and vice president should clearly choose as well as these three missing judges. IDS did not participate in games, or conversations with any club, or with any clan, and we do not prefer anyone around these judges. But I did talk to some Constitutional Court judges about what they thought about these proposals and they said that the board suggested correct I don't know the candidates. I didn't talk to Alda Radolovic. This time IDS will not boycott the vote as we did in the 7th month of last year when Aldo Radolovic did not go through because of our votes, but they resented us all in Istria. We were solidarity with the opposition then, we made a mistake, and this time we'll vote. Why should we vote? We will vote first of all for the stability of that institution. Without the stability of this Constitutional Court, there is no stability of this country, although it is clear to me that under the grains it can still prefer someone, although I want to believe that our institutions are becoming increasingly credible. Yesterday we had a report on the military, the governor of the Croatian National Bank appeared autonomously. The President of the State is an institution over institutions. We are slowly entering NATO and the European Union, and I hope that soon we will also be able to join the Monetary Union if we do not sink first under the burden of external debt. And clearly the institution of institutions is the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament and therefore we MPs must also take care of the integrity of this House. As clearly as the public should, etc., because if we weaken this institution of Parliament, then power moves to executive power, capital, or media. For the end, we have to choose the judges. We have this proposal. Who's going to vote for this is less important, but let's not use our own vote to disabling the court's credibility because that's not helping anyone. We don't help the parties, we don't help the rule of law, we don't help Parliament, we don't even help the credibility of this court. I talked to a judge or a judge, it doesn't matter, who told me or told me literally like this: if we don't fill out the court, we'll fall apart. However, they will not fall apart, but they will continue to work hard, and this House must take care of it. So, the court would have to fill out the judges and clearly choose those judges. Mr. Josipovic spoke about the festival of democracy. To play the orchestra, to sound good, if you need those 11 instruments, you need three more to come there, but you need to get a conductor, and the court has to choose both the president and the vice president of the court. The practice that was before, until now, was not good. This may not be good either, but we should put our heads together so that those mistakes that may be made today by Seks, yesterday Arlovic, before yesterday someone else, don't happen again. But what is most important is that the court should unblock and leave these good customs that are agreed here, permanent trade, but only between HDZ and SDP. And we others who are young must also fight for our own emancipation so as not to permanently marginalize and avoid us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8400	Neither Mr. Mato Arlovic, as chairman of the Committee, nor did I, nor do we intend to make any mistakes. SDP club, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8401	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm very close to the argument of my colleague Caine, this instrument and gig thing and all that. However, in order for these players to play, they must have one reasonably written partition. You know, they're not playing out of their heads, they're playing out of partition, and our fundamental mistake is that the Partition is poorly written, which is the composer who worked on the partition doing the wrong thing. There were some, I'm not going to say insinuation, but the the thesis of how someone's behind the deal between two big parties or two of the biggest parties and some kind of trade or something like that. That doesn't occur to anyone, and this argument we've been listening to, it's been like this this this year, this year. Well, it actually confirms what I was talking about, that it's a long-term bad practice that just led to us having neither players nor conductors nor a fair part of it. What I pleaded for on behalf of the SDP club is to finally break up with it and end up not being blackmailed with it, so look, now we have to choose judges. We'll probably pick them out. Our club members will vote on their conscience. However, this kind of pression that at infinitum delays actually introducing a reasonable democratic standard into elections, various elections, so the choice of a constitutional judge simply seems inappropriate. In one word, here's to going back to the style figures of fellow Caine, our auditioning orchestra today is not the happiest place, is it? We've got a lot of problems. It seems to me that exactly the way we choose them leads us to not always be able to choose between the best. I hope if you pass the choice, that you will of course pass the last time in this way, and that the next election of the Constitutional Court judges will be under some other conditions and cautels, in the first order that it will be opened, more open to public questioning. If we compare democratic practice in some truly democratic countries, then we see that it takes a lot of care first of quality, of morality, of the worldview, however some of us might not want to admit it. So take care of all that, and do it under completely different public reflectors than we do today. And if the public's reflectors and the questions of expertise are real, then of course there's no doubt in trade, nor in similarity, nor in anything else. Therefore, only such a procedure can guarantee full authority and constitutional court as a whole and judges as individuals. The SDP club will join the vote. They will vote on their conscience, of course with a sense of bitterness and dissatisfaction that this time parliament has not done the job as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8402	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since several candidates have been proposed, Article 231 shall apply. The Rules of Procedure will hold a secret vote. I suggest that three MPs help carry out a secret vote. Representative Emil Tomljanović, representative Tatjana Šimac- Bonačić and representative Željko Vincelj. As usual, I hope you don't mind, now we'd like to go to the polls right now, but with all those debated items on the agenda or we're still going to this one, to discuss the final draft of the Law on the Completion of the Holidays Act, mentioned and unworkable days. Can we do this next week so that it can be, with that provision about the Crossroad Victims Act and Bleiburg, is that due to be delivered to be law and brought into force? When Is This Mentioned, 5 / 15? It's next Saturday. We'll be there then. Then we're going to vote for the rest of the agenda points. [[We're on our way, we're on our way.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8403	Is it a quorum, please? Now we would have a agenda point – the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. For the election of every judge of the Constitutional Court it is necessary in the Assembly to get 77 votes, and we are here... 81. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have a quorum, we can vote. We can vote and we'll vote. The secret vote of course, we have four candidates, three of whom are elected. I'll read it here now... Here you go, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8404	Mr. President, I would like to ask that the quorum be checked, because the vote to vote varies. I don't know if the people were "pressing" I don't know, but let's check the quorum on the screen so it won't be anything controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8405	Do you all have the keys? Please let's get involved, let's accept that. You didn't all get involved. Please make sure he gets red in the right place. The result of the quorum? We've got 80 that's on. So we have a quorum. And now I will read in a secret vote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Article 231 shall apply. - 238. A secret vote shall be held on ballots. The ballots are the same size, colors and shapes and are certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots shall be prepared by the Secretary of Parliament or by his deputy. The President shall also be assisted by a number of representatives in the secret vote with the Secretary of Parliament. MPs who assist the president in conducting a secret vote handover to voters. The handover of ballots shall be recorded on the list of MPs by rounding up a regular number in front of the name of the MP who has been handed over to him by the MP. The number of ballot boxes and places to be placed shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. The vote on each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. In the event of a re-vote, the session shall be suspended to prepare new ballots. The vote is held again by the same procedure as the first vote. The MP can only vote on one ballot in person. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. A ballot rounding a regular number in front of the name of a larger number of candidates than the number to be elected is considered invalid. So three are chosen from four in us. An unfulfilled ballot, as well as a ballot with new names, i.e. a ballot, which is so filled that it cannot be safely claimed by the candidates to be voted by the representative. After all the present deputies handed over ballots and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, he moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the chairman in the presence of the representatives who helped him vote. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots there have been, and how many MPs voted in favour of the election, i.e. the appointment of an individual candidate. Furthermore, the chairman shall declare which candidates have been elected or appointed. I propose that three MPs or MPs be appointed to assist in the vote. First, Emil Tomljanović. This is where Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic was. She's not here. I was going to suggest it. Zeljko Vincelj, who also doesn't have one. Well, then, I suggest that Mr. Boro Grubisic be present in the ballot count. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8406	Mr. President, given gender equality, let the woman be for me. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8407	And there's gonna be one woman, and it's not over yet. That's two.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8408	Two women can do it. It's better to have two women more. Here, I wouldn't play that part. I wouldn't, I wouldn't, thank you very much, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8409	Look, we'd like to except, I thought you'd suggest Mrs. Mariana Petrir, but also someone from the opposition. So that's why Mr. Grubisic... Here, Mr. Vladimir Šišljagic. So, what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8410	Mr. President. I was surprised by your suggestion, but I am happy to accept it because it is my unique opportunity to control you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-09-0.u8411	Okay, we agree to help with... Mr Emil Tomljanovic, Ms Marijana Petir and Mr. Vladimir Šišljagic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we agree? Any other suggestions? There isn't. Now please take the vote. Please. Please don't part after the election. [[Intruder: Just a little bit more.]] We need to publish the results in front of the MPs. So I'm asking you to hold off for a while after the vote, and I'm calling again, it takes 77 votes to elect a judge. We're 80. Now... Another one's here, 81. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We will now announce the results of the vote for three judges of the Constitutional Court of Four as many as were on the ballot. The results are next. I announce that out of the 153 voters, 82 MPs have received the ballot. Eighty-two MPs voted. The wrong ballot wasn't one. For candidate number one, Slavica Banic was voted by 78 MPs. Seventy-eight MPs voted for candidate number two, Marija Jurisic. For candidate number three, Mirjana Juricicic was voted by four MPs. And for candidate number four, Duška Sharin was voted by 78 MPs. I declare that Slavica Banic, Mario Jelusic and Duška Sarin were elected as judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you. [[Applause]] On Tuesday, the session will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on holidays, memorials and non-working days in the Republic of Croatia. And then we'll see further these agenda points that we haven't yet defined. Thank you.
