ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7885	Now we're going to the next point. - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Public Liaison, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 45. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The government has submitted an amendment divided into benches. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the report at the session. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Djurdja Adlesic will further explain the bill on behalf of the proposing. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of us is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests in Public Liaison, a law that caused numerous debates and before it arrived at the Assembly benches, which certainly shows both sensitivity and responsibility to the subject. The goal is certainly to raise democratic standards and show politics as a responsible job. The purpose is to raise the ethical level in the state service and authorities, the presence of corruption and the impression of its presence to the minimum extent possible. With this draft law, the Government wants to specify the application procedure for officials' assets, limit the number of their memberships in supervisory committees, companies, institutions and extra-financial funds. We have also tightened sanctions in the event of a conflict of public officials' interest, thereby strengthening legal instruments to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Certain names of individual responsibilities and design units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and deputies who became state officials, have also been harmonised. The provisions of this law apply this time also to the presidents of the management of commercial companies which are wholly owned by the state, deputy mayors and municipal mayors and members of the county, city and municipal heads and members of the headship of the City of Zagreb. In the draft law, we also set out clear definitions on the content of the report on the property of officials. Officials shall be obliged to submit to the Commission, within 30 days of the date of entry into service, a report on the assets as significant changes during the performance of their public duties. Data on acquired property of officials shall include property, mobile property of greater value, vehicles, vessels, aircraft, working machines, hunting weapons, art, jewelry, securities and other valuables than furniture and clothing, business shares and shares, savings greater than one year's net income of officials, debts, guarantees, income from copyright, patent and other intellectual property, all other income and debt, guarantees and other obligations taken over. The data's public. They shall be published without the consent of the officials, and the commission may also request adequate evidence of the property. Before submitting the report, the official cannot receive the salary. The draft law provides that officials may be members of a maximum of two supervisory boards of commercial companies, institutions, extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest, unless the special law provides that the officer is a member of the Supervisory Board in a position. In that case, the official shall not receive any fee for membership except for travel and other expenses. So far, it has been a practice for state officials to be in six or seven supervisory committees, there have been cases of nine, and I can remember double digits in some previous mandates. Due to the scope and large number of obligations, an official who occasionally attended meetings of the Supervisory Board could not do his job in quality. In order to depolitise the commission to decide on a conflict of interest, to include a representative of the public as a supervisor of the work of the public authorities, and to achieve greater independence in the work of the commission, several provisions have been amended. Well, the bill stipulates that the commission consists of 11 members, 6 from the ranks of MPs, 3 from the party acting as authorities and as much from the opposition parties, and five from the ranks of prominent public employees. The Committee of Presidents shall elect from the ranks of prominent public employees who shall not be a member of any political party. It would be good if political parties could reach a consensus on the name and then it would certainly fall off and object that the commission or presidents of the commissions are politically accounted for through this body. Members shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. A member of the commission may be re-appointed no later than once. The Commission also has a professional service that strengthens this law, increases the means to carry out expert tasks in the section of the commission, and administrative and technical services, which enables the Commission to operate regularly and smoothly. The internal organisation of the professional service shall be governed by the internal structure and manner of operation of the professional service. The procedure before the committee is open to the public, except during the vote. The Commission shall give its opinion on the application of the provisions of this Act, giving the official a sanction in the form of a suspension of the payment of a net monthly salary of 5 to 10 thousand kuna, unless the official submits a report within a period of time or in the report indicate false information, or if he does not submit a report to the Commission on the substantial changes in the property situation during the conduct of his or her duties. So far, sanctions have been provided for from 3 to 5 thousand kuna. The total amount covered by the suspension shall not exceed one-third of the monthly net salary and the suspension may not exceed three months. The commission issued a notice and made it public, this time at the expense of officials, so the possibility of deafening and not publishing information, which so far has been the case, is now completely waste. In the event that the official does not pay the cost of public publication of the decision, the public announcement will be made out of the State budget and the cost of public publication will be charged by suspending the payment of the official's net monthly salary. Where the nature of the infringement is appropriate, the commission shall, during the procedure, order the official to remove the causes of the conflict of interest within a specified time limit and, if the official does so, suspend the proceedings or complete the performance of the order, take into account when the sanctions are imposed. It is precisely the need to address these issues, and as an effective fight against corruption as particularly justified state reasons, it has led the applicant to ask for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. It is therefore assessed that the conditions laid down in Article 159 have been met. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the laws of urgency. As regards that financial part, for which MPs are usually rightly asked, a million kuna additional funds in the state budget should be provided for the implementation of this law. That amount should be provided in order to pay compensation for members of the commission, to determine the conflict of interest of public officials from the ranks of respected public employees at the gross amount and for the work of the expert commission service. Dear MPs and MPs, we believe that the debate will help make the law as high as possible. We are pleased that your amendments have already begun to arrive at the benches and we will certainly consider them by the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7887	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I don't see anyone. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HSLS-HSU Antun Korushec Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7888	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. Here, let me give on behalf of the HSLS and HSU Club our thoughts regarding the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Public Dutys. We believe that at least two reasons why it is good that this bill has entered the parliamentary procedure. The first reason is certainly to sensitize the public and to feel the public that it must be spoken publicly without constraint about conflict of interest and corruption. Another, no less important reason, is that the 2006-2008 National Anti-Corruption Programme provides for the obligation to consider and adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the conduct of public duties. Let me begin by reminding you of the previous term of this House when HSLS systematically advocated the depolitisation of public administration. As a result, the HSLS Representatives Club proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials together with the HSS Representatives' Club. What exactly were we trying to accomplish together? With this legislative proposal, we wanted to reduce the number of government officials and their number in the boards of directors, institutions and extra-financial funds in the predominantly state-owned or those in which the state has a majority stake, i.e. a stock package. And we also wanted to prevent certain civil servants from sitting on nine or more supervisory committees, thus preventing possible conflict and jurisdiction and interest. The fact is that state officials are extremely burdened with their work and their obligations, so the official who is still a member of several supervisory committees, so in the absence of time only occasionally comes to meetings, certainly cannot perform quality work-related functions, i.e. the business of society, and then certainly there is no place for him. I therefore particularly welcome the amendment of Article 11 of the existing law, which states that officials may be members of no more than two supervisory committees, of course, unless the special law provides that the officer is a member of the Supervisory Board in a position. In fact, I think it is extremely important to point out that the precondition for membership in the supervisory committees should be expertise, independence and awareness of personal responsibility, which enables the depoliticalisation of the work of administrative and supervisory committees, which I really find extremely important, and I believe that these amendments and amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest make it possible. This bill very specifically defines the model of submission of the report on the official's property and the Commission's commission to prevent conflicts of interest, so I believe that there will be no further misunderstandings on this issue. I also find it extremely important and good solution that the commission has increased the number of members, and that is for those from the ranks of prominent public employees who must not be members of any party that will certainly affect the better work of the commission and reduce the number of problems that the Commission has encountered so far. Therefore, if out of 11 members of the committee 6 appointed by the Parliament and three from the ruling party, three from the opposition and five from the reputation of public employees, by the fact that the chairman of the committee of public employees is a non-partisan person, I consider it an extremely high-quality solution guaranteeing success in the work of the commission and thus also in the implementation of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. It is also good and certainly commendable that everything is expensive for the public court and that the procedure before the committee will be open to the public because when it comes to issues relating to conflict of interest and corruption then the public has the right to be most familiar with it because, of course, it is the citizens who are filling the state budget and it is quite understandable that they have the right and that they need to know where that money is going. I believe it is certainly for the commendation and introduction of sanctions and the increase of sanctions against state officials who have disobeyed those provisions of the law. In final thought and consideration, I think it should be said that corruption is undoubtedly a great monster of today's society and I believe that the amendments that this law prescribes will contribute to its reduction. The exclusion trend of state officials from the boards of directors and supervisory boards of commercial companies in the majority ownership of the state only promotes the performance of the business, does not diminish it at all. Therefore, I repeat this tendency to exclude government officials only promotes business success because the supervision business is left to experts. That is why, on behalf of the HSLS and HSU, I support the amendments and additions to this law and consider them an important contribution to the development of democratisation in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7889	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7890	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and the title itself implies a definition of corruption that is closely linked to state officials. Well, the definition of corruption itself says it's an abuse of public duty for personal gain. In what areas does corruption in the world grow and flourish? Mostly in those areas that are the most pro-pulsory economic branches, which are drugs, weapons and oil. First, the second and third in the world has traffic between $600 and $800 billion a year, and we thank God we're not, but we're in those other allegedly small areas of corruption where we take an unreal place, 69th place from 184 countries towards Transparency International. A lot or a little? I think it's a place that's too low but we're making good progress. In 2007 the corruption index has been the best, most favourable in Croatia since it was even monitored, at 4.1. So, it's been growing for the last seven, eight years, and that's the result of all governments in so far's compositions. Why we're still dissatisfied and we have to make the law that is before us over and over again. We are dissatisfied because it is a low place in 69, but we must not be too self-critical, because there are two members of the European Union in worse places behind us. In worse places, all former republics, or states, came from Yugoslavia except Slovenia and a large part of the former Socialist countries. So we have two major risk factors. One is leaving socialism. The best evidence of the risk of corruption by socialism or post-socialism is Russia, which has an index of 2.3, is in 143th place of the 184th country in Transparency International. Another risk factor that has none of the countries that are better than us is war. After the war, corruption is booming, so we can still be satisfied that in the last ten years, our index is still going up. So we also overcome the consequences of war. But when we forget about socialism that will be far behind us and forget about the war that will be far behind us, will we then be without corruption? We will not, because European Union countries that have long forgotten both socialism and war have corruption that I will not say equally but comparablely developed with ours. For example, from a large Germany, we have recently received packages that their investors refrain from investing because of corruption in Croatia. At the same time on the Internet, we are monitoring a 1 billion-euro corruption affair in Germany. With this amount, a famous German company bribed civil servants and local officials to purchase its devices. So, one billion-euro affair, which means when we join the European Union, we have not been rid of corruption. It is an eternal, inexhaustible, incorrigible, permanent evil that needs to be fought permanently, and in this sense, a lasting struggle, I also see this bill before us. The law was passed on the basis of a national corruption control programme adopted by the government for the period 2006 to 2008. I'll quote a sentence from that program. She says this: "It is wrong to assess the scale of corruption based solely on statistics because the number of reported and processed cases is negligible.". In other words. I'm also talking to my colleagues in the back row, especially my friend Caine. In other words, corruption is something that is immeasurable. Transparency International is measuring them according to the impression of citizens. What is the difference between the impression of citizens and reality? We do not know that because scientific research does not exist, but I will mention the example of health care where, in all compositions, so the current positions and the current opposition of the health ministers conducted anonymous surveys and corruption in health care in terms of bribed doctors was below 1% of all services and on the scale the health care was highly positioned according to the public's view of corruption in health. There is much more corruption in healthcare in the supply of medical materials and supplies than at the doctor-patient level. These are things that need to be contained and needed to be diagnosed in order to find true therapy. So, in other words, sometimes polls can seduce us in the wrong direction, which does not mean that doctors are not subject to corruption in that minimum percentage. But when we talk about corruption in this law, then we need to see what the new law is about and what it is about to improve. We've heard of Madam Vice-President of the Government, the fundamental thing that changes in that law should mean a new quality. I think the new quality is the first extension of the list of persons who act as public officials and who have to report their property status. In this law, among other things, this list of officials is being extended to officials in the defence portfolio, which I think is very good because the defence will have bigger and bigger acquisitions. Second, it expands to local level and includes deputy municipal and city chiefs, members of chieftains, etc. This is especially good because when we talk about corruption, then we think about the state level, and actually the local level is a much bigger problem because a lot more individual members of the local administration are involved at local levels than at national level. As for the total amount they receive from one or another level, we unfortunately do not have that information. The second thing that the law does well is a clear definition of the content of the report that we have to submit to the Commission on our property status, the great progress is that the movements, the values of more than 10 thousand kunas must be individually indicated, so there will be no more misunderstandings. Personally, I don't think it's a good provision in which, without the consent of the official, all his property and movables can be published. I think it's a danger to publish the movables and addresses at the same time, because it's actually an open invitation to someone to come in in small hours and make it easier for a motion officer, when he can't take away his real estate. That's why it's a question mark that keeps repeating itself, and I think one day we should question it. It's not a mature time yet. What's good here is that greater transparency has been achieved. That expression is being used again. It is probably meant to be available, since the procedure before the committee is available to the public and thus can really have insight into the work of the commission. I believe that improvement and sanctions are the area of sanctions where part of the salary is suspended, where warnings are made and decisions by the Commission are made public. It is good that, as far as I've been informed, the Government has accepted the amendment in which such sanctions will be charged, so the withdrawal of part of the salary, because it has not been defined so far, and it will certainly be better quality than so far, because the confiscation of that part will be ensured. On behalf of the club, we will submit an amendment requesting that those sanctions from 10 thousand kuna be increased to 20 thousand kuna, we believe that this would be more appropriate for our incomes and in some way a higher burden for the offender and his budget. But what will certainly cause the most controversy in this law, that is the part in which the head of the commission is appointed a person who is impartial and who is outside the Parliament itself. Why did the legislator go to such a solution? To remove himself in this fight against corruption politicizing. The politicisation of corruption is, according to all world experts, the most dangerous part of corruption, because politicizing corruption indicates in most cases, not always, the wrong people. Why does he do that? It's precisely because those others in the muddy water could hunt fat fish. We have an example. in the Bulgarian affair, which revealed that they deliberately directed corruption stories at those people in the state hierarchy who fought most against corruption. It is precisely to eliminate them, to force them to resign, and thus to dull the edge of the fight against corruption, and the affair is just finished in Bulgaria and it is good and instructive. But real corruption is always out of political parties. True players in corruption can't stand to change power every four years, so it's wrong to accuse that corruption is bigger in opposition or in position, because the real ones that hunt for the whitest fish, they don't belong to either one, nor the others, and they survive every election and therefore corruption is equal after all the elections and without any influence on the choice of corruption. I like to say that the only party that always gets in the corruption of HZD or the Croatian Party of Longfingers. They belong not to anyone, but to themselves and the battle against them is fierce and they rejoice when we invent affairs and fight each other because then they are in the shadow of these affairs and can work very nicely and satisfactorily. In politicization, media plays a special role. I believe that this composition of the commission will depolitise a large part of the fight against corruption. As far as the media is concerned, I've done one analysis. In the last year, in the 16 most investigative newspapers covering 90% of the total newspaper fee, corruption was according to the Internet by a thousand 633 texts, of 22 thousand 800. So 7% of the texts in 90% of the printed journals and weekbooks were related to corruption. But when we analyze these thousand 633 articles on corruption, then we see that comments, so subjective opinions took 44% of texts, columns, again subjective opinions, 33% of articles, readers' letters again subjective 17%, and only 6% were original articles based on facts. Why just 6%? Because it's hard to explore corruption, sometimes very dangerous, and that's why we'd rather convince her than get caught up in the real deal with it, and that would certainly be the important role of investigative journalism to really go on not so much with comments and columns, than with research, concrete facts in the fight against corruption. Political interests are in any case very important and they are actually clouding the fight against corruption. I've been in politics for about 18 years with interruptions, I've been charged with seven major affairs so far. As I recall in '92. I bought a chain of meatloaf one of those big Pikas, and they got gold, so I was in '93. He bought a children's hospital on Srebrenica, and they got less gold because it's in the deficit. So I'm '93. I bought and became the owner, and that's why, as in the negotiations, I kept her a hospital in Dubrava, because she was worth it, right up until the Shimatz affair" against which I have a powerful verdict that I am not guilty, against which I have, and imaginary affairs and the opinion of the State Audit for the years when I was the minister in which everything was fine. But the purpose of the affair is for someone in that shadow to slip through and make fat money. That is why it is necessary to depolitise these charges, to introduce non-party people, and therefore I think that the move that the Government has made in this proposal is very good, and therefore we will support that the commission is led by a non-party person, a person with no political interest to enter into the fight against corruption, which is in fact always a turning point in the fight for corruption. I will quote before the end of the business forum by the author Radovic who said this. "In some countries where governments are fighting corruption, the criminal mileage invents an affair against government officials to distract and remove them from the political scene as anti-corruption fighters." Typical conclusion for politicising corruption. However, the sum of the interests of material, political imposes a new solution, a solution of the non-partisan person we support, a person who must not be a member of any party, provided that the choice has the right to influence both leading and opposition politicians regardless of the term of office. It's good for every solution that gives good results. I believe that the result of this solution will be good, and if it is not, and if we accept it today, we will have the opportunity to correct it. But what I believe after this law, at least if the corruption index in Croatia does not fall into the eyes of our citizens, the reputation of government officials increases. Because through this law, a government official who's going through an affair should really be congratulated. In other words, this law is so good, I don't think anyone's gonna make it through this. That is why the HDZ Club supports this law with the announcement of amendments on increased sanctions from 10 to 20,000 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7891	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7892	It's not the exact quote of fellow Hebrang that corruption is not tied to power. In principle, in all systems, the worst kind of corruption is tied and extended to power. If we're looking at model clean and really, it's the biggest problem, even with us. So, politics and corruption. You'd have to talk about it. I guess there'll be time in this debate. But to talk about that corruption is neutral from power, you know, it's, it's like telling me that there's wood iron.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7893	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7894	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. First of all, I apologize to fellow Hebrang for the riot in the stands we had up there, because his exposure was quite interesting to us, so we commented on him. In any case, I have to say that this law that speaks of preventing conflicts of interest, or the bill of law, is closely linked to something that does not appear here in this title, which is corruption and crime, and when we take those three words, so corruption, crime and conflict of interest, we can spin them into a vicious circle. They're bisignally connected and generated by each other or generated by either of these three words. I haven't been able to, so I haven't been charged or suspected of any kind of affair since '52. years as Mr. Hebrang says, but I'm glad to see you in, and how nice and proud it sounds that we're going to get a drop in the corruption index to remove says any suspicion to the public about the honesty of politics and authorities. That sounds very nice, although I think our citizens in very small numbers will believe in such a formulation. In any case, the progress is to see from these papers, from these materials, not to say such papers, that members of the supervisory committees, or people who act on duty on supervisory boards, will be able to act at the most in two, on two supervisory committees, which is, in any case, progress in relation to the former membership of 10 or more supervisory committees. Indeed, I always wonder how it is possible to physically reach all these places and behave and what kind of head it is, what capacity is intellectual and all others who can behave so many duties and so many memberships in some supervisory committees, administrative councils, etc. When we promote this material, that, that the number of officials from the state summit are, therefore, from the President of the Republic of Croatia to the members of the county, city and municipal heads, and members of the Head of the City of Zagreb who are subject to this bill or new law that we will pass after the debate, and I wonder that this is more than 10,000 people covered, when all this is summed up, all the people who are listed here and the officials who are precisely ordered in this material. But I wonder if someone really needs to become an official to come under the public eye? What about those who are not officials, and we are quite certain that Mr Hebrang says that outside of power and politics there is corruption, there is crime. Therefore, officials who deal in any form in any form of politics and who are listed here are subject to the public's baton, under the commission's work, under committee's research, under the property and movables they possess. And how many others aren't in this list, and certainly, I can't say for sure, because I'm going to come and say, that I wouldn't answer for some libel, and we certainly know for sure, or at least we have reasonable and well-founded suspicion that there's some kind of crime. Because they say “where there is smoke, there is fire. And you see, the other day I was surprised at the Slavonic ship when it was sitting, says the congregation of a merchant society in the town of Brod. The congregation, who is the congregation, so when a congregation says it, then I think it's more people. The assembly, the assembly, parliament, the assembly is said somewhere, the rally is somewhere. And it's called a congregation, one man. The mayor of the Slavon ship. He's a congregation. Well, I never get it, this is what I'm talking about supervisory committees and the company assembly and the board of directors. He, a man, is a congregation. Indeed, it is absolutely not clear to me what he is doing as a congregation, if he is a congregation. So there are some things that we could regulate the same concept of congregations in trade and other societies. Mr. Hebrang is right when he talks about the local level and indeed, the great possibilities of those three crime, corruption, conflict of interest because really when you look at how many competitions local administrations and self-government fall in court after lawsuits and complaints then you see that it is a really large number of local administrations and self-government units where such actions are done. Now, when we talk about the data being delivered to the commission, we're using it all the time, I was sending it when I came to this honorary home, to the Croatian Parliament, my data to the bike all, so real estate and movement, I say to a bike that's not in its own condition, I sent it to the commission. It didn't pass, so I mailed it in the afternoon, and in the morning, it all came together in the paper. So, the commission almost didn't even get it, or someone, to say, washed off the envelope. So I wonder why it's called a commission? Let us call him that differently because the commission comes from the word to be trusted. So I've entrusted my situation with real estate and mobility to some commission, and that's why it's not a commission at all. Let's call it different, let's call this office, let's call it whatever we want, but it's certainly not a commission, although I'm not running away from that commission, or what we're going to call it, to make it available to the public. I don't mind being available to the public, but every part of the property, every piece, part or share of the money someone owns. Now here we're talking about how we should protect ourselves in some way again here from the previous debate, but here we don't use the argument of the personal data protection agency. So here she doesn't play any role. In another bill of law and debate here, we mentioned the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, this is the agency, so it's not necessary, it's all public and it can be all obvious said. I've studied a little bit in the details of this article, these items here, and it says like this in Article 3 of the officials to join at most two supervisory committees, companies, etc. for membership in... etc. the official has no right to any compensation other than the right to compensation for travel and other costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And other expenses, travel expenses, that I understand, and others I don't understand the costs. It's not defined if it's not lamb under the roast. So I'd still look back on just, in this bill of law to sanction that commission. This commission is not a court, not an authority, as I would call it, an institution which, by its composition and powers, could be tried, as it is judged. e.g. for a traffic violation. Now, let's compare it a little bit, from the other day we've been discussing traffic offences and traffic offences in relation to the penalties for overcoming, or entering a conflict of interest. Here is some kind of suspension of the net salary of 5 to 10 thousand kuna, and let's remember the penalties for traffic violations, and we'll see that we're not fair in proposing this kind of thing, to say the fines we're going to pay in a traffic violation, where a large part of the population is involved, and it's possible to commit a violation of the poorest citizen, and in this case, it's certainly not going to be that way. I think it's an injustice and it's unfair. The amount proposed is not fair, and in addition to how we do so if we see legal medicines exist, and all the way to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the last article, in Article 7 at the bottom where it ends with the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia or if the official removes what led to the conflict of interest, then it will be removed, or will not be guided by further proceedings or something like that. And I would like to say one more thing, and they say that it is proposed to postpone this application of that article to the official in order to replace, within a reasonable period of time, officials who are members of supervisory boards and commercial companies with other professional staff. I'd ask the promoter to tell us what a reasonable time limit it is? ... The assembly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that's the one man. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7895	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7896	Dear Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. MPs, Mr. Vice President of the Shex Parliament. What to say about this law. Nothing will come from this law. This law, however, would be good for one revision of the conversion of a number of people who have won naked and barefoot through the conversion of millions of kunas, and today it is not enough for them anymore, but now it wants neither less nor more than power. And that's what unions usually support. I agree here in one part with Mr. Hebrang, who said about paraphrasing him, is not the greatest problem of the Parliament. And indeed in this society is not the greatest problem of the Parliament. The easiest thing to do is to attack, insult, demean far greater power at this moment in this country is in capital, in the media, in the executive power, in Pantovack etc. But as everyone will probably be for this law, so will the IDS club be for this law, but what each of us should through this law say what he had there in the '90s and what he clearly has today. One word that the people would say, "What our struggle has given us." Someone's billions and someone's nothing, no matter how many mandates are in this House. If you were in IDS, then clearly you could not participate in the conversion. If you were in another party, if you were a socialist director, then the factory, the hotel, the bank, at least when it comes to Istria, was guaranteed. What bothers me the most is that a whole series of socialist directors became capitalists overnight, and that they fought so hard for their companies that in the 1980s they fought for their companies today to be cynical, never socialism, and not even self-government in this country would fail. And why am I saying that? Because the presidents of the board of directors of companies that are entirely state-owned, as the law says, are now obliged to submit this property card, and such are the Vice-Presidents very few. That'll be for example. Do the director of Croatian Radio Television, and I think the 300 editors on TV who earn more than ministers should do it with it, but for example. They will not have to submit that property card to the director of the INA because INA is now not entirely owned by the Croatian state, but I say they should at least and those who manage billions of kuna on an annual basis. I think that would be fair. Why am I saying that? Because I advocate the principle that everyone should talk clearly about everything, but if he speaks or writes about us etc. the one who does this should first submit a report on himself. I think that would be fair. If a reporter, for example. He earns three or four times as much as a minister, it's clear no one can defend anyone to write what he writes, and I'd be the first to step in their defense to write in the way they think it's opportunized, but then these gentlemen have to say something about themselves in some way. As it is today some way to put it, an affair when one spouse asks another to be tested for drugs, let's go and we'll analyze ourselves, test for drugs, and see who's simply prone to it. What do I want to say, too? We ourselves do not need to disabling Parliament's credibility. We shouldn't call it out when we haven't been here in the last few weeks. I say some of us have done quite well for the past three weeks. We've done quite a job. Some of them aren't. And I argue that some have also been in this Parliament since they became party presidents, in six months they have become quite old enough to say how difficult it is to be in Croatian politics today. To be clear, I'm not defending the government, come on, God forbid there's been a change of government, but for Parliament's dignity, I will always fight because if we question that in some way we question the very foundations of this country. I will not say that this Parliament is the best that Croatia has at this time, but it is far better than the good part of the media and from the good part of the executive government and from the good part of the privatised economy, and also far better than the good part not to say the entire Croatian union movement. I repeat, all those I quote are also all in a better position than MPs and also means bills on the sun and for watches, but also for union privileges. Because if you don't, I'm saying this team that runs the unions will destroy the union movement. So what am I up for? It's simple for principle. The official must publish his or her assets, must publish the method of acquisition, etc. But also those who speak about the official whether it's media, whether it's a union, whether it's some of them who run some public shows, and also have to announce that they've come to their own property. I don't know, clearly someone gave Mr. Sanader watches. But I'm also looking at, say, editors of our journals or some other shows that, in some of these newspapers, boast that they bought or owned a collection of 5, 6, 7, 8 or more thousands of euros worth of watches. Would it be fair now that someone calls us out to announce how they acquired that property so that we know just as much as their message in those media is credible. That's it, that's what I personally stand for. Otherwise, IDS is the first party to put this or this law in the parliamentary procedure in 96 more. To be clear, I'm absolutely not running away from anything, but also higher than credibility and a public scene that is not just made up of people who are in politics, I think in that category should count a part of the media mainly those who are state-owned and part of the union and part of it I don't know the others in that large capital etc. What interests me is how and what those who took part in the conversion bought the shares, how they came to hundreds of millions of kunas, and now they suddenly appear to us overnight as concubines, as mecenaries, as benefactors and so forth. None of these people today who have hundreds of millions of kunas, in the '90s, had anything. And we all know what was just going on there, that it was a robbery and that it was tolerated to this day, and it's not going to make it right anymore. However, I claim that when Croatia enters the European Union, whether it will be 2010, whether it will be in 2011, the European Union will bless this way of acquiring property, this one peaceful transition, and then there will be no more revisions, there will be no re-examination of the acquired, in one word then everything will be simply blocked and life begins from the beginning. The other thing is that I'm also surprised, which means this ten thousand kuna item for art, etc. except household appliances and clothing items. Mr. Hebrang proposes 20 thousand kuna, I think it should be transported to at least 5 thousand Euros, so 35 or 40 thousand kuna. I ask that this provision extend to all those, too, who deal with officials. I intend to submit such an amendment personally. Because if a journalist, let's say, has a 3m-euro house on Pantovchak, he's in his nature a thing is correct, fair, etc., and we who live in these Assembly flats, where the carpets haven't changed in 30 years, size 30 or 40 squares, and that's a lot, but now we're, I don't know, gangs, thieves, this or something else. One word, and those who write such provisions of the law should sort of land. Article 3 is a membership of those supervisory committees, meaning up to two committees unless the special law provides otherwise. Turns out the official is now not allowed to be on the board of directors, he is not allowed to receive compensation anyway, and it needs to be underlined. It is clear that someone's friends will always be able to do it, the union leaders will be able to do it, too, but I also think it should be made public in some way so that the Croatian public knows who it's really about. I personally think it might be better that they are officials on some supervisory committees, because if they are there then this parliament can oversee them. Through such a form we can take care of that public, and if some are third, I assure you that the third one will primarily take care of the private interest and no more demagogy should be sold there. And so it will be, clearly, always, until we start running politics in this House, not just sending some blank messages, simply, always solidarity with those who spit on us. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Who will be from outside members of the The one clearly appointed by the Commission for Selection and Designation, which is clearly the HDZ. In addition, these people are now named for seven years, the top will say that two mandates will, or rather, be, for two mandates, so to speak, peaceful Bosnia, when it comes to those who name them. A lot, too, with those outside members and adversities now of someone's independence. I say there are no individuals who are absolutely independent, and even if there are those who are absolutely independent, then they don't belong in a body that works or helps this Parliament. I claim that everyone in this country has an attitude. Everyone votes. Everyone prefers someone. And so the stories of someone's independence simply don't go away and they can't sell themselves to small children. I claim that independents aren't even unions, neither are we, nor are the media, are not journalists, are not judges, and therefore, I don't think there's a lot of demagogy here, because everyone prefers someone, if nothing else, and then after four years, when they come out again to an election post. And once again, everyone who writes, everyone who speaks, etc., about the status of officials themselves, would have to publish their own data and give, as well as to express, my authority to the analysis together also, with the official on which it is written. What I'd like to ask is that this law goes into another reading and we can literally rewrite how this matter is regulated by an Austrian, Italian, French law. That would be fair. This way it'll all come down to another, I think, excess ritual. But who does that suit? Who does that just suit? I claim that it suits the media, because for them, the point is, I don't know, the price of a marenda in a Parliament restaurant, which is two or three times bigger than anywhere else in this Zagreb or in my Buzet, so to speak, not to say what we ate for 345 kuna today, but about it at some other time. What I also want to say for the end, in Croatia, I don't think I'm going to say now who is, who is not spared from crime, but I claim that in this society there is far the least crime in this House. It says a lot and how much influence we really have. We certainly don't decide anything, so no one needs us. Yesterday I listened to President Mesic in his address to the public "With the President for Coffee", when he said about it, I was a representative there in 1960 and some years, I only took a shower and just the diaries and I think that would be enough for today's Croatian representatives, which could be agreed on by the trade unions. And he forgot to mention that since '95. By 2000, if it hadn't been for this parliamentary pension, he hardly could have lived off his only wife Milka's pension. And that, too, needs to be said honestly and openly. So power, I claim, is in private capital, power is in the media, power is in executive power, public enterprises, Pantovchak and therefore...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7897	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7898	It should be fair for everyone to open the story, as the public is talking about at this time, and most of all, it is planting this House, and it is destroying Croatia's credibility and credibility. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7899	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7900	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I think that colleague Cain made an incorrect assumption when he said at the beginning of his presentation that this law would be good for reviewing conversion. This law is intended to prevent corruption under number one and does not put things back. And for what fellow Cain has devoted a good part of his exposure, I think he would be good at another law that is not discussed here today, which is the Law on the Origin of Assets that would solve a lot of his problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7901	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think we should clear up the concepts first. The conflict of interest is a situation in which an official is or can be found, as the law says, when public or general interest comes to collage which would have to represent his private interest. In that sense, this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is a powerful weapon, a tool to fight corruption, but not all corruption in general. He won't help us prevent corruption, like in healthcare by bribing some doctor for surgery. That law does not serve in the media what Cain spoke of or I do not know where else. He has a strict application to prevent corruption in politics above all in officials. They make some decisions, so now instead of making a decision in the general or public interest he makes it in his personal. Why does this law control property and report property? So in order to compare the property situation at the beginning of the duty and at the end of the duty, to see if the official had gained more than what he had paid, i.e. whether he acted corruptly or did not act corruptly. That's the purpose of this law. Now, how do we change this law? We change this law and argue that it is a powerful tool against corruption, that it strengthens our fight and determination in the fight against corruption, and that should be a motive for the adoption of this law and for the amendment of this law, and we wonder if that is the case. The law was passed in 2003, amended twice in 2005 and 2006 but whenever this change was made twice, so at that stage of its amendments, the current law that was passed in 2003 continued to apply. We are in a very strange situation today. A law which is proposed to be amended and which has not yet been changed and which is not yet applied and which does not apply because of the way in which this Parliament works. Since the meeting of this House of 11 February, there has been no commission for more than two and a half months and the law provides for the commission and the law. The law is in force. The clubs made their proposals for members of the commission but the ruling parliamentary majority refused to appoint under the applicable law. He's in effect at the moment when we talk about him. So, this House, a law-making body that cares about law enforcement, its parliamentary majority did not want to appoint members of the Committee for Conflict of Interest by law, and so for two and a half months no one has controlled the conflict of interest. This situation that someone refuses to appoint members under the applicable law is the biggest conflict of interest because it is obviously in the interest of the parliamentary majority that there is no commission for two and a half months and that no one controls them. And this is a classic conflict of interest instead of making a decision in the general interest and naming members of the commission under the applicable laws they refuse to do so because their private interest that the commission does not work is stronger than the general interest that this commission does. Dr. Hebrang said a very strange and very dangerous thesis on behalf of the HDZ club. He said the majority of corruption is outside politics. He says corruption is out of control and those who hunt the biggest fish as he has been charged with corruption in order to continue hunting for themselves in a blurry, i.e. to draw attention from themselves to the here politicians. Interesting and dangerous thesis, but she explains everything. It also explains why the law in force has not been applied for two and a half months and why it changes in the way it is changed. The European Council's messages say Croatia is not effective enough in fighting corruption. It's a message from the European Council. And how do we listen to that message? So we don't apply the law we have and we change it or we try to change it on this proposal to melt off every blade. We listen and accept this communication from the European Council in a way that a representative of the main ruling party here says that corruption in politics is not our main problem. I guess it's there with the cops when they take 100 kunas or I don't know where, but not in politics. The purpose of this law is to prevent or detect corruption when it is tied to power, when it is tied to a position, when it is bound by a duty. Every country fights corruption as it knows and can. There isn't a country where corruption isn't there. But when is corruption the most dangerous? Just when it comes to power, when a government becomes corrupt or when corruption becomes a system of government, a way of ruling. We have come dangerously close to this in Croatia, I warn of this four years ago. We have four years of corruption in politics directly, directly through the purchase of council mandates, directly. There's nothing to be done for four years. No, but the council is still being bought, the citizens' will in the elections is changing, their most democratic right. So why? Well, because it's the one who buys a mandate from someone else, so it's in his best interests. He raises his private interest in power beyond the will of the citizens above the general interest, and that is the will of the citizens. We have here for four years had MPs who received a million kuna for their four-year term as God’s independent representatives. They came in here on the party list, went out. All of them voted in favour of the government's proposal, all of them to one, regardless of entering parliament as an opposition. Well, it's a conflict of interest, so the citizens have chosen me to be an opposition and I sell myself for a million kuna and vote with power because it allows me to do so. She's passing laws that allow me to get those million kunas for those four years. And now Dr. Hebrang says that corruption is not with power and that's not the problem. Well, that's the biggest, only problem. To close your eyes to that problem means actually to ask for an apology for this corruption that is tied to power, means to sort of justify it. How does it change? What is the most important change in this law? The composition of the council. It's the most important change. How to choose who will be president. So far, there has been a rule that the president must not be among the ruling. The council had seven members, but had a president who chose from his ranks, but he should not have been from the ruling party. So why was this provision, when the law was passed, brought into the law? Well, because she has her own deep logic, deep logic. Because who will control the ruling? So who makes the decisions. So whoever rules makes decisions. So who's in a situation of conflict of interest and being corrupt from their own situation? So whoever makes the decisions is ruling. So who needs to control it? Well, of course the opposition. And now this most powerful element in this law is that the opposition under this law is controlled by the ruling throws out. How? By what excuse? I'm sorry we're not going to politicize corruption. So we'll put independent, non-partisan people in charge of that commission. So you know what it looks like? Here is the proposal passed through the Appointments Committee, and it will come here for the plenary session to be held in this Committee on the Prevention of Corruption of Special Authorities, so that there will be no more Dr. Cregar, it's Horvatic. The committee's decision made by the majority of the committee, which is the parliamentary majority here. Now, this shows what intensities the parliamentary majority have removed all proven anti-corruption fighters in this country and all bodies and bring their non-members to the party, but they are appointed by their will and they should control corruption in the ruling ones. So to interpret it to someone. So listen to how naive he'd have to be if he believed that. The purpose of amending this law is to prevent the control of corruption among the ruling. That's the point. That's the objective of amending this law and because it's just an unobstructed goal. He's clearly showing himself. He's proving that you've never respected the law before, you don't respect him today, now that I'm saying this, you don't respect that law, because you didn't appoint members of that body. You didn't, and you needed and you wanted to lead this commission to you a person, a non-partisan truth God, but you tend to. That's what little kids see. You don't want to fight corruption where it's most dangerous, and the most dangerous is when it comes to power, the most dangerous. You want to strengthen that corruption, you give it wind in the sails. We can only expect worse assessments from the European Commission, but easily for European Commission evaluations. We can expect that this society that has been corrupt so far, where incomprehensible things are happening right in politics, where politics is in charge of controlling them, we can expect to escalate corruption because who will control you when you bring your people to this forehead and most people in this body? Control's gone. There's no one who's gonna ask the Prime Minister how he got to his house, his watches, his property. Not just him, any of you, any of you from the Ministry, any of these officials you've brought here. That, when this law is passed, will have no one. Therefore, the SDP estimates that this law is not the law to be passed in order to combat corruption, but to strengthen corruption, political corruption in the worst form of corruption, and therefore SDP will never vote for such a proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7903	Thank you. Only to notify that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 17 hours and 37 minutes. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7904	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague incorrectly stated, quotes: "Hebrang said a dangerous thesis that most corruption is outside politics." So that's what all analysts know is that the majority is out of politics, I cited examples of a major affair in Germany where the company that sold directly to the supplier has nothing to do with politics. So politics is not about corruption in the judiciary, because it is independent of politics. Health care, procurement independent of politics. Graduation enrollment, colleagues' enrolment in colleges, building permits, construction inspection, that's not politics. So it's not dangerous what I did, it's what you did. He deliberately turned the arrow off from the right corrupters, which he always does because he protects corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7905	Thank you. The following is the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Zvona Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7906	Col. Stazic incorrectly stated that these provisions of the law should actually apply only to officials of the ruling coalition and repeated it several times dramatically and dramatically, which is completely incorrect, the law's intensity and its content. However, it is not true that he is saying that conflict of interest is and that he said not to implement this law that is still in force. The law was implemented in the most important parts and regulations, so you must have filled out your card and reported the property in time, just like the rest of us. What has not been implemented, which makes sense until the changes are implemented, and that is to choose a commission or part of a commission that would be temporary. So you got this wrong, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7907	Thank you. The following is the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Stazic. He's got it all wrong. He says, "Citizens chose MPs to be opposition and they became power." Well, I think that citizens always vote that the MP would become power, not to stay in the opposition, and that's definitely not a scam, like it's not a scam that citizens chose you to be power, and you're the rest of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7909	And the next correction is the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7910	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Stazic made an absolute untrue claim that the rulings are buying councilmen and that corruption can be seen clearly in action, that they are actions past the will of citizens and those who choose. I mean, I don't know what he meant specifically, only if he didn't mean this example in Osijek now of his SDP and HSP. But in the end, he did tell one truth that I think is true, which is that the citizens really chose you to be an opposition. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7911	Thank you. And the final correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7912	Thank you. Well, actually, my colleagues fixed a lot of what my colleague Stazic said incorrectly. I'm just going to say that it's illogical that this government that's already passed this bill for the second time doesn't want to reduce, so it's also to suppress the conflict of interest, and that government that was four years old then preceded the HSP club with its proposals. She just passed that law when she was actually leaving in 2003. Now something doesn't make sense. So, those who change the laws, to narrow that fight down to the least possible measure, are not to stop corruption and conflict of interest, and those who for four years didn't think to bring it, but under pressure when they left say, so let's do that too. It'll be harder for those who come behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7913	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first signed up for the Honorable Representative... And I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter, the distinguished Vice President Đurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I am pleased to conclude that HSLS, HSU, HDZ, HDSSB and IDS have supported the adoption of this law, and I thank you for that, as I also thank my fellow Stazic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club for the remarks that have been made. The fact is that everyone who debated has supported the necessity of adopting this law, that everyone wants a strengthened responsibility of government, state officials, more democratic and more ethical standards, and I think we share an opinion on the depolitical commission. It was expected to reopen the question of the president of the opposition commission. I will remind you that is the present state, that the president of the commission does not come from the ranks of the ruling. Not out of the ranks of the ruling and not out of the opposition. We really believe that this is a better step because it completely excludes the possibility of political reckonings of one or another option. I urge the MPs to try to choose the chairman of the commission by consensus. Such experiences have already been experienced in the Parliament. After we see who the candidates are, try to choose a person from a public life, and I don't want to believe that there is no person in public life who would not be trusted by authority or opposition. It's one of the possible ways. I am pleased to say that this bill has been supported by the European parliamentarians on 30.4. in Opatija and it has been estimated that there are more significant steps here. As you can see, the list of officials to whom this law applies is expanded. You yourself listed people the law never applied to before. The penalties have been tightened, the law is enforceable and what is very important to say is charged immediately to an official who has been able to deafen himself so far. It shall be charged from the state budget, and then the official shall be deprived of those funds. So the law seems to me to have made a lot of high-quality steps. I'll just briefly look back at some of the remarks that came from the clubs. I'd like to thank the HSLS and HSU for their support. Hebrang's colleague, Hebrang, has raised a question that unfortunately has a foothold in some past term experiences, which is after details with the list of assets appeared on the committee's pages and unfortunately with the addresses occurred the first thefts, as we seem to have given suggestions to the thieves and revealed the addresses. It's really a question that we'll still have to talk about and see how officials protect us from becoming target thieves. Representative Grubisic of the HDSSB. I'm glad you're commending this progress with two monitoring committees. We have certainly shared the same opinion for a long time that a person cannot sit at the same time on many monitoring committees and know the information. Whenever it was, the results were bad and they showed up sooner or later. I agree with you and with the danger of a company assembly being one person. You mentioned Slavonski Brod. I could also mention the City of Zagreb. That can't be good. But it's not something we can fix with this law. I also thank my colleague Caina, who seems to have made me a proposal, but in order to adopt it, it would be good to attach it in the form of amendments, which is to report value. As far as we've been able to hear it, it seems to me that all the clubs that have shown themselves consider these 10,000 kunas to be a small value, so now amendments 10, 20, 30 are coming and up to 5,000 euros so that these lists really wouldn't be to entertain the public with a list of family bikes or something like that. I believe that's where we're going to show seriousness. As far as the remarks of my fellow MP Stazic are concerned, I will really just answer what I do not think is politics, but that there is something we can talk about under this law. So it's the president of the commission again. I urge you once again, consider the possibility of selecting a consensus. When buying councilman. Although it is not part of this law I will remind you that we have passed a law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and I believe you can remember that when you make such remarks. Here, thank you very much and I hope there will be quality amendments that we will consider carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7915	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7916	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When I heard that the law was changing, and when I saw the practice of course, unfortunately it was confirmed from the result that the main objective was actually to change the composition of the commission and the president of the commission, and I think that you will hardly convince anyone in the public who is not party-class that this was not the main goal. In fact, there's almost nothing more serious than the other content, and I have to say yes, okay. Now it's changing, so I expected some other changes, primarily changes that would eliminate the child's diseases of the system of preventing conflicts of interest that, hand to heart, existed. Now, what are children's diseases that aren't removed in this really, so I'd say one of the few bad legal and nomotechnical offices that were found here with us. Why? Because the law has become almost one incoherent legal oatmeal. I'll explain why I think so. First, the conflict of interest is obviously in the public, so I also see here from the debate understood in one way that is not appropriate to the institution of conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is not a criminal justice mechanism which, when someone's corruption is established, will be punished here with 20 thousand kuna. One for whom the law, which the bodies have found to be corrupt, is that even in the original text of the law, we have a provision if a judicial procedure has been initiated to interrupt the proceedings before the commission. So it's not his purpose, for that man is prison, not 20 or 10 thousand kuna fines. So the purpose of the conflict is under a, preventive action and sub b, building trust in politicians and government institutions through the moral ethical treatment of each of us. Now, those who, I personally mean child diseases of the system and who I expected would be removed from these changes, and what did not seem to be the first, for my concept of completely inappropriate estradisation of the entire system and that estradisation made the entire system dysfunctional on the one hand, and on the other hand. I think that what we've done to that institution is, in fact, demeaning all of us here, including the institutions of the Parliament and the profession of politicians, as dirty as possible in someone's eyes, I believe honorable politicians have and that this should not be done. They did not, based on what was not done, and it should be done to clearly state what the official should do and what the official should not. We now have a very vague article 9, I think is one, I'm not going to go into detail now, that one of our colleagues has fallen victim to the vagueness and arbitration of that provision. So it's not clear what an official can do, what an official can't. And that Article 9 should have, it seems to me to be bragged, it's a shame that it wasn't done, it can't be done by amendment, because I would have gone personally with the amendment, I would have suggested, but since you didn't propose an amendment, I can't go in business under Article 9, so I think that's what I should have done. The system must be rational, which means that it is forbidden to be what is clearly determined and what can be found to be a conflict of certain private and certain public interest. Unfortunately, in the part of the public, it seems to me in the policy section that it's understood as, let's now be here to prevent some official from earning some money. Which is not the point, it's not the point. The purpose of this is to prevent that money, if earned, from earning at the expense of public interest. Therefore, there must always be a rational system of correlation of private interest and public interest. If there is no such thing, then the system is arbitral and is not good and therefore I personally regret that this article 9 has not been profiled. We have other provisions that have nothing to do with the rationality of public and private interest. That's how much you've praised this two-supervised committee provision. This conflict of interest to you, except in some broad sense, has nothing to do with it. If there is a conflict of public and private, it is on one supervisory committee, and whether it is 2, 3 or 7 is a question of the other, it is a matter of rational management of public portfolios. So it's normal that no one can run 3 or 5 or 10 supervisory committees properly. But it's a matter of common sense and policymaking, not conflict of interest in that way. So through the law they try to settle some things that conflict of interest actually by their nature things. For me, this ten thousand kuna provision is humiliating, so we'll be doing inventory soon... Secondly, I don't think there's been a balance made and there's no need for a balance between the really necessity to get through the control of the property of officials and the acquisition of property, so there has to be transparency, it has to be public because it's the only way we can, as a profession, enjoy some interest and reputation in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was no correlation and balance in relation to what is protection and some dignity and privacy of officials. I think we, like all other citizens, have the right to do that. You and today both the Commission and the Government and the Government and the Government and we are all together to tolerate that on one portal you have information that is not correct and data that is, for those who no longer fall under the regime of conflict of interest, because their mandate has long passed. So, to this extent, we are careless in relation to, if you will, to both dignity and to the human personal rights of individual persons, it has been said about addresses and other things, and I am sorry that the opportunity to create a reasonable balance of public interest and necessary control and protection of personal data and privacy has not been taken advantage of. Furthermore, I think this is, I must say, I come from that mile, I think it's completely deplaced that the rectors, the proctors, are treated as officials, they're not, and the university is autonomous and I have proposed to you by amendment that they are deleted, not because they should be corrupt, they fall under the Penal Code as well as others, but they're simply not the authorities. We also have some vague stories, let's say there's talk of income confirmation in the unit, I think it would be better if the official proved by tax ruling his income and property, and in that sense I submitted the amendment. I also think that, maybe that's one... It's said, members of the party who behaves in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we can see, we don't have one party who's acting in power, but we have parties who act in power, and in that sense I've given the amendment. I personally and returned, I don't think there's any fear of politicization, that the reputation of this committee would benefit from staying out of the opposition chairman, the president, you refused, of course, that the amendment probably won't accept, but what I think is very important and that I would like you to accept and I don't think there would be any harm to it, not even political, to the ruling one, and that's a question of protecting the dignitary and legal security of officials. Namely, you have predicted, and it is not yet, it simply continues from that original text when the law was first passed, the right to appeal for the decision of the commission. Today is scheduled and it continues, now it is no longer an appeal but a protection from the Constitutional Court of Justice that is inefficient. First, it takes too long and second, it doesn't go into scale and it's wrong. For me, the right to appeal would have to be decided by three Supreme Court judges in a quick procedure to clarify whether the politician is guilty or not, and not by this mechanism which is slow and ineffective, the appeal decision of full jurisdiction, so on both facts and not only when the punishment is. Why not just when it's punishment, but whenever there's a conflict of interest. I think we'd all pay three times just so it doesn't get out that someone's in conflict of interest. The fact that it declares a conflict of interest is the greatest punishment for a politician. Therefore, I think that it would also be the same fellow Czechok who was part of a segment he found that there was a conflict of interest he could not complain, the Administrative Court rejected his appeal in one part because he had no right to appeal and I think it was absolutely wrong. So an official against any decision where there is a conflict of interest must have one effective legal remedy. And finally, lastly, I propose the same amendment, concerns the existing, current members of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests from the ranks of public employees. Why are you suspending their mandate? The only thing that can be interpreted is that they are not at your will and that by amending the law you want to get rid of them. There is no other rational interpretation and there is no, I know all the authorities have been able to do it, but it is not democratic, it is not correct to change the law and abolish the current mandate of the body that normally works and continues to work. It's something that wouldn't do us all much good. Here is to include, I'm sorry that perhaps even some consensus and conversation has not worked on one text that would be much more quality, which would be in the function of conflict of interest, any other interests that are still hidden in these provisions today. And unfortunately here I think we're going to have to wait for another chance when the government doesn't agree to consider this issue in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7917	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my debate, I will try to help the promoters to make the law as good as possible if they have the intention and will to listen to what I say. First, the officials to which this law applies are listed. Since we often change the laws of especially those that regulate who is, and who is not a state official and are not published consolidated texts, I believe that this is only the consequence of the fact that, in the proposal of Article 1 of this Law, it is abandoned by the management of the people of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, the protection of health at work. Because this normal regular health insurance office, its director, deputy director and even assistant directors are covered by this law Article 1 but a newly established office which should have already been operational and I hope that the appointed directors and vice directors, and perhaps his assistants, are not intended to be the subject of the Law of Conflict of Interest. It may also be a message from Madam Vice President that you are asking your associates to at least internally work the consolidated text of the law so that in this country they finally know who has the status of a state official and who doesn't. Because these amendments to this law as well as that of the State Officials Act are such a number that I believe that those who wrote to you on the basis of the law no longer agree on their own, so they missed the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance at work whose leaders you did not foresee to be covered by this law and here I help you with the amendment that I gave. I want to believe you'll accept that, but I assure you that I've gone on to compose all the amendments and additions to the law to probably find some who are still in the State Officials Act, and in this law they're not. It took me a long time to figure out the gaps myself. The second of my observations concerns Article 2(5), where they list which property and property must be entered in the property card. Curiously, the law always leaves out assets acquired in the process of restoring assets on denationalisation which does not have to be only in money, shares or real estate, is always used to express "the other way". These other ways are known to us, one of these is this, and we have witnessed in the past two terms that this is exactly how part of the state's officials acquired enormous property, and I suggest that my other amendment clearly states in the law that property acquired during the term of office, by returning property in the process of denationalisation must be subject to the application of the change and at the end of the term of office. It's not something else, it's a fully-known case based on the law of this country. Third, paragraph 6 speaks of an individual value greater than 10 thousand kuna. On that 16th time I warn in this House - what values? Buying by account, invoices, gifts, a gift agreement or an appraisal? I, in order to report to my property card the value of the orchards that I received from the gift agreement 25 years ago after the then south dinars, had to hire the appraiser to make me an evaluation of the value so that he could enter that value. The word: "values" or "explanation" or "determination" in order to avoid future disputes that are of particular value when it comes to donations. The word: "value" means nothing, because here in a card you have to prove the way to acquire, and then to say "value" has a useful function to say and how. I warn you, at this session, we will certainly discuss the Law on Personal Identification. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in that Law is not listed as a legitimate user of information obtained there on property, so I ask you, as Vice-President of the Government, to influence the motionor, so that this commission, too, is included in that law as a body with public powers that can use information on how and property to acquire officials, is precisely doing this question about value. Article 4 regulates the selection, composition, number and structure of the commission in a new way. This Article 4 is, in fact, an amendment to the law that embodies the opposition to conflict of interest. It's a dig-up of opposition and nothing else. Floscule on the fact that it is an effort to depolitise the commission does not suffer a minimum of criticism, because with four members of the committee of parliament's policy, you are increasing to six, 3+3, 3 power, 3 opposition. So, you're not doing depolitisation, but you're increasing the number of politicians, if we're all politicians, but it's only a maneuver of the first, that the existing members, the outsiders, are cut off from the ranks of prominent employees, because obviously one of the existing members has not worked according to the taste of the government and is going in a new way of choice. If, however, the aim is to depolitise the commission, I suggest that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in its composition has no parliamentary representatives. All 11, and I don't know why 11. The higher the quality of 11 than 7, the more so far, that all of us, therefore, should remain on number 7 and all be on the ranks of public employees, without politicians. It's depoliticization. And none of them shall be a member of any party, nor a supporter, nor a sympathiser, nor anything. Then I will believe that it is an attempt to use European experiences to depolitise this commission. But if from the existing number of four politicians you increase to six and you say it's depoliticalism, I can't do it, I don't want to, and I can't believe it. And I want to believe that no opposition club will use its right and propose three candidates to this committee. It's either everyone or nobody. In the end, the sanctions provided for in Article 7 if false information, incorrect data or property is not reported. What does untrue data mean? Wrong value or some property he didn't report at all? Unlike counterpart Josipovic, who fears sanctions in kunas, I have given the amendment to be twice as big as proposed immediately. Although, in my view, it would be fairest that these penalties would not amount to kuna in Article 3, paragraph 7, but rather apply income tax rates. 15, 25, 35 and 45% compared to the value of undeclared real estate, assets of any government official who has been denied. Because it doesn't matter whether you forget or conceal the property worth 5 thousand kuna and 500 thousand kuna, so that tax rate, tax rates from the Income Tax Act, even here would be more appropriate, if we wanted to financially, and I did, punishment. But these symbolic 5 to 10 thousand kunas, it's worth not reporting a million kunas of property, because when you don't report it here, and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is not authorized to use data on a personal identification number, then the evasion is possible. So please, take advantage of your influence and position, that even in this commission, if it will ever be formed, this subject enters, this law so that it may benefit by official duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7919	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7920	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. As my predecessors have said, starting with a fellow Stazic who spoke on behalf of the SDP club, why this change of law is taking place. It is due to reforming, transforming, or abolishing the body that led the opposition representative. And the best control we are is each other and it's in the cyclical, when there's a change of government. And that's the most normal and honest thing. In fact, when this Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests was passed, its basic intensity was just the rehabilitation of politics. The decline in the reputation of politicians and politics as an activity that basically has and should have a noble goal, as a struggle for the common good, is such importance that several years ago the French Bishop's Conference discussed the topic precisely for the rehabilitation of politics. Therefore, the fundamental law, which has been passed, which has been changed on several occasions, has been changed in the sense that some ambiguities of technical nature are clarified. Now this change is going, is a significant step back. But at what point does it happen? It happens right now when we don't apply the basic law. I don't know which norm, where is this norm that powers any of us here on our own ruling, that I can suspend the positive standard of this existing law. So people are going to say that you're going to respect something and these changes, when you don't respect the exact existing positive law, or norms. True, we've heard some argument here that's not legal, it can't hold water, but we intend to change, so what would be a short time? There's no such norms here, but the intentions, the intensities, the dreams, they had legal significance in the Middle Ages, when man was responsible for some bad dreams and they were responsible for intentions, whether they had any... in reality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is already a bad start, and about the intentions and which is why the composition of the commission is changed long and wide, and also quite clearly, crystallically, the fellow Stazic spoke. Well, here I am, not to repeat it, and I'm not taking up your time, and I don't think I could say it as crystallinely and vehemently as my colleague Stazic was inspired to say it, but he really spoke from the heart, because this law wants to figure out the depolitization of this god. It's really courage. Something that makes it worse to suggest that it's still progress. You'd understand something else, let's make some other changes, so this way, rather than boast about it. Now, that, that's a little too much. You know, to keep quiet and not react the way my colleague Stazic reacted. Now, a little something, therefore, is clear to everyone, therefore, that you do not want the opposition there, the representative of the opposition in that body, but to God's insufferable person, that is, the person of public life that you will choose. Most of them. And then it's not politics. And we already have a lot of such experiences, and with the judges of the Constitutional Court and so on and so forth. So, for God's sake, you want to figure it out, it's out of politics and so on. However, policy needs to take some responsibility, and it can best be done by policy and control but also by public representatives. If we look at certain norms, see this provision of Article 11(6), and still remain officials in but now says no more than two supervisory committees, in companies and institutions that are of particular national interest. We knew, therefore, that after the amendments to the law of the first company, all of us and some small veterinary stations were declared of state interest only to allow adequate people to come to these individual companies in the supervisory boards. But let's let it go now. Here you see, if we were to apply the norm in the Penal Code to abuse trust as a central criminal act of economic crime, then politicians themselves would run from the monitoring committees as the devil from the incense because they were the first to be held accountable. For every little thing that happens in such companies invited members of boards of directors and supervisory boards, management has been called because first figures and he is responsible, almost objectively responsible. The defense I didn't know, I didn't hear it meant confession in court. It's like a turner says, "Spring the train, didn't fix the turn, and I didn't know the train was coming through.". So the ignorance doesn't esculate but confirms that if we had the standard we had on that famous novel in 2003, then politicians wouldn't want to be inside. It is taking responsibility and the question is how many of us today's work if it is truly donated to that primary duty for which we have been elected, especially I speak for ministers, for parliamentary representatives but also for other officials who do not have time to deal with it. This is a responsible job to be a member of the Supervisory Board. Well, it's not just sitting there for two hours, so I heard something, they told me something, and it didn't. That's how it works with us and it's not good. It's not good for anyone or a member who comes here and doesn't really know anything about it. But even so, which is why we don't have defined in the Penal Code the responsibility of management above all members of the board of directors and supervisors that there can be just such a situation perfectly nutritious basis for political accounts because the rubber norm for someone can be said you knew, you should have known, for this other one and you didn't know it, and so, until we had a well-defined criminal act. And if we had what no one would want to be here, then there wouldn't be a proposal like this. So much for that. I would also like to refer equally to the provision of Article 7 which is amended, that is this Article 2 of our final proposal, which is precisely what data on the property acquired, or what kind of property is reported, or its origin. So this is based on the court's decision. So the court assigns on the basis of a claim which had a certain legal basis or donation, or some legal business. The court doesn't just assign. Therefore, they are declarative of nature and not someone acquired the property by the court's decision but acquired it either by buying it, or by inheriting it, or by giving it, or by some legal work, or by some legal basis, rather than by a court decision. The court's decision is just to discuss some issues. This should therefore be corrected here in Article 2, so Article 7(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And in Article 8(4), you see that by way of effect of this law, the term of office of the previous members of the committee from the ranks of respected public employees ceases. So these public employees are still working in that commission. And what are they doing there? Did you receive compensation for that? Sometimes when there was a scrawny body of then respected men as Professor Krapac no longer wanted to be in such a single body, so he stepped down. Will they be again, or will most of them choose them, and they will be worthy? And you're supposed to raise your voice and say please, we're not working. But now the law applies only to them. So it's obvious. And this is a piece of shit, one provision and a norm, because it doesn't say anything about parliamentary deputies who have disappeared here on the interregne somewhere and lost. And who are you gentlemen talking about? It's about us right here alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7921	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7922	I'm not a lawyer, but dear colleagues exist, for example, a lifetime or life support contract, that is, by the decision of the court of property acquired.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7923	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7924	Dude, you said it right, and it goes in favor of exactly what I said. Therefore, if the court finds that someone has acquired on the basis of a lifetime contract, then you say that the property was acquired on the basis of a life or life support contract... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7925	It was a replica and a reply to the replica. What's wrong with the Rules of Procedure? He doesn't have a colleague, Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7926	Ma'am, when you were getting a form or something, I don't know which one you were filling out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7927	Comrade Grubisic, I apologize. It's not possible to do business. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a shame it's hard to provide some kind of rational analysis of this bill now because it's a little bit pointless. Analyze it in all the proposed articles and then everyone look for its ratio, correct it and correct it when actually the basic intensity of the law is completely different. She didn't fix the situation in society. Its intensity is to make the situation worse and because of one provision, the most important changes in this law, the way the commission is drawn up. Here's professor. Josipovic, in his best interest, drew attention to some illogicalities in the legislative proposal, that it was necessary to change something that did not change at all in Article 9, that the rectors and proctors were not officials because they belonged to an independent academic community which all the notorious things and all this nonsense had entered into the law, in the bill of law, and all of this should be corrected, but it is pointless to discuss it. It doesn't matter if there's gonna be rectors and prophesies there. It doesn't matter that everything here is changing and supplementing, if it remains the most important thing here, and that's the way the commission is drawn up. Otherwise, since it was passed, it has actually contained two dangers, one is the estradisation of politics, which it has provided since it was passed, and then the public is engaged in some sort of banal conflicts of interest or potential conflict of interest with an official, and then they all have fun. It's one danger to that law. And the second is not to be efficient enough and to avoid the control of a real conflict of interest. Instead of correcting the law, it needs to be repaired because it is a relatively new law and has not been able to, since it was passed in 2003, cover everything and it needs to be constantly corrected and corrected. Now instead of repairing it between those two extremes of estradisation of politics and evading control, we're actually destroying it by this change. This law is killed by this proposed amendment to the composition of the commission. It's the same thing as ending it. Nothing that law will do. Here is the Deputy Prime Minister's call for the MPs, please be nice, to vote by consensus on the President of the Commission, and I call on the Deputy Prime Minister to propose an amendment to this legal text so that the way the president's election is done. What does the Vice-President of the Government propose and defend the text to invite MPs to act differently from the way provided for in the law? Well, that's just funny. And her right is, her authority is, the government's power is that when she put something like this into the bill, when she's faced with criticism of changing it, and not calling on MPs to act beyond what she's proposing in the law. So let the government amend that the chairman of the commission is elected by consensus in Parliament, let's say on a parliamentary minority proposal. It doesn't have to be... Minorities, at the proposal of the parliamentary minority, and turn it down. [[Because of the noise in the hall, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are you going to say no to? So you will reject him whom you know will control you, but what will you do with him? Because now you've predicted the possibility to name him the one who won't control you. That's the essence of this bill. So if Madam Vice President has good intentions, then we expect an amendment like this. If such an amendment does not come from the government, then the intensity and the vice-presidents together with HDZ and the entire parliamentary majority are clear, we want to avoid control, any commission to prevent conflicts of interest, beyond that control, we want to move away, we will name, we will resolve all these and external ones, and these parliaments have thus ceased to be members of the commission during the term of office, and we will drive these all away and we will bring our people, except for three opposition MPs. It means that the commission will have 11 members, 3 will be from the opposition's ranks and that is the only opposition influence. Everything else will be at the will of the parliamentary majority. To expect the bodies to control the conflict of interest in the parliamentary majority itself or the government itself, forgive me, it is truly incomprehensible, incomprehensible that someone can even think of it. However, you amend the law as you wish, you have a parliamentary majority and you can change it. You bring it here by emergency procedure. There is no reason for the amendment of this law to be adopted by an emergency procedure, but nothing at all, in the conditions when the commission was already to work, in full compliance with the applicable law. So these are laws that are being debated, perhaps in two, perhaps in three readings, to break up, to achieve what the law says should achieve public interest, to protect the public interest, to predict all possibilities, all the holes in that law, to discuss them together, and to try to close them then by supplementing that legal proposal. This is how you quickly throw these out, so it's done by emergency procedure, that you're also throwing the outside members out of that commission and in a hurry as soon as possible to name all of your own. That is why whatever you do, and it is quite clear how you will act, you will pass the law by emergency procedure, all of these fly out, you will appoint all of your own, and you will avoid control, but you will have a judge in this manner of yours to be public. It will also evaluate how you change this law and who you appoint and how you are controlled by those you appoint. The court of the public, unfortunately for you, can't pass a law by which they would annul the court of the public. You can't do that. But that public, you must be prepared to do so, will be critical and according to this procedure of amending this law, and according to your further actions when the law changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7929	Thank you. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7930	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are ready for the court of the public and, as far as I know, the public supports the adoption of a law that will contribute further to the fight against corruption, which is one of the great halls under which the Republic of Croatia is not immune. Everyone reads this law as it suits him, it is understandable to me, but there are also institutions and people who may be from a distance, but perhaps more objectively judge the activities undertaken by the Croatian Government in the fight against corruption and I have before me a declaration of the Joint Committee of the Croatian and European Parliament adopted in Opatija on 30 April 2008 and the Joint Committee, and of course on the initiative and suggestion of European Commission experts to whom we have delivered the law as welcomed by the adoption of the law in such content as the Croatian Government referred to the Parliament and considers it a step forward in the fight against corruption. In addition to having to regulate relations in the domestic political scene, of course the Government must take care of the dynamics of negotiations with the European Union to join the European Union and therefore we propose that this law be adopted by an urgent procedure because domestic experts and the public, but also foreign experts and foreign political factors, have assessed that this draft law is a major step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7931	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7932	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, maybe here's just a few words. We've heard a lot today. Well, I kind of feel like whenever any of them outside of parliamentary politicians, unions, and even journalists are out of inspiration here at the Parliament, all the views go to the Parliament with accusations of the Parliament, with all the things people experience here, but clearly from their point of view. And then again I feel like we're adapting laws to show that we're honest, that we're the same, that we're totally the opposite of what they want to prove and the clear law, the law itself that can be better and worse will prove it very hard. Because they'll always be able to interpret it one way or another. One way of interpreting it is from colleagues and colleagues on my right who claim that this law actually wanted to completely amortize all of the blows against us, because we're going to choose as president someone who's like that, who isn't. That's what we hear all the time. Who's not SDP, because actually SDP is the only one who's going to judge whether someone's good or not. Because what we have been following, what we have seen in recent years, was that in the image of the President of the Commission, therefore a colleague in the image of the President of the Commission has clearly taken advantage of every opportunity to say by any word against the official, let me put it that way by the ruling officials, because that place has allowed him in countless interviews, in countless pictures and all the rest. So, slightly speaking, he wasn't an independent president. And now that we say let's go pick an independent president, now it's no good. Well, I suggest, let's look up to water polo. Let's bring in old Croatian habits of someone from abroad so let's judge and let's tell us the stories we're good, we're not good because we don't trust our people. There is no one in whom we will believe both, because it is impossible for the Croats to be someone who will or from the inhabitants of Croatia who will lead this commission independently. So that's where we're going to find it really hard to agree because I believe there are a lot of people who are going to lead it well, and whether it's going to be voted most or not. I wish we could all make a deal about this man. It's already a question closer to the future. Here, I just have to say about this law. I'm a little sorry that we haven't had a little discussion about an article, let's say Article 11, which is interpreted by an official who has 25% and more shares, i.e. shares in a company during public service conduct, will transfer his management rights on the basis of shares in society to another person, etc. Because we saw it just before 2003. So, somewhere in those years, even in 2003, a great abuse. Here, just before my colleague got back in 2003, so I'm allowed to do the same. Because if an official surrenders his founding rights to a lawyer, which we had a case, he shouldn't get involved in that business anymore. We actually had this one example which today the state's attorney's office did not find fit to solve despite the findings of all possible, commissions. So, the Coning firm's example that nothing happened to anyone, so I'm interested in seeing in the 2006 commission report that this case is coming up we could say processed. Besides, I don't see anything anymore, because it's not a problem for that official to pay maybe a million kuna fine and wave his hand and do whatever he wants. So, will punishment somehow affect or not? Do we see that he doesn't have much influence on the politician himself, because he obviously didn't have a very low popularity. So maybe one time in another change a little see how it reacts. It may be unconstitutional, but it should be prohibited for all those who own companies over 25% and for general business with the state and local, either with municipalities, cities or counties. I think that would be far, far more transparent and better. I'm a little afraid of here. I'm afraid of the width, I'm afraid of too many officials that will be covered, which are covered by this law, and there will be great, great difficulties for the commission. But here I wish them a lot of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7933	Replica. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7934	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague Markovanovic mentioned water polo. So, not to remain said that Italian judges tried our finals, the finals of our championship and play off does not mean that our judges are worse because they tried the Italian championship. So it was a confession to them too, and they made a good decision both of them. But I think as far as water polo is concerned, we're world champions. In a conflict of interest, we're still not world champions, and it seems to me that I wouldn't even want to be world champions no matter what we might be moving towards, but I don't think we will be. However, we cannot go so far over some who are still stronger than us in the conflict of interest, even if the HDZ is in power. As for the message to this independent, who now turns out that Mr. Leca is not allowed to give interviews so that you don't change the law, that then the independent can't be the chairman of the commission. So, in fact, you commended Mr. Leca as chairman of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in the previous term. I think he did his job well, I'm sorry you're changing this law, but you probably have your reasons for that. I must admit that I understand them, and with this finding of yours that he gave too many interviews, perhaps to change the name of the committee in the committee to prevent the public's interest in conflict of interest, and then we will fully meet all the goals that the proposer had in changing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7935	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7936	Here's just, I think the colleague clearly misunderstood because it's not about interviews, it's about what the man says in the interview. If he says, if mine are good, yours are bad, then it's an interview, then it's an abuse of this particular place. As far as the world's ranks are concerned, that we'll be on top, I'm afraid we won't be on top, many are still ahead of us, and Italian judges, here we can bring Italian judges, the Italians have judged us in time, so at least one part of Croatia, they might be better now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7937	Is that the one who tried, the bald one? Colin. Let's go to the water polo, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah. [[Intruder: Selection is wide.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we'd like to interrupt the debate, continue tomorrow at 9:30. The first is the representative Zvonimir Puljic, so Suzana Bilić Vardić, Vladimir Ivkovic, Damir Sesvečan, Brankica Crljenko. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to hold a session and debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties. Mrs. Branchie Blackie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7939	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Corruption violates the fundamental values of the social relationship between every democratic and civil society. Therefore, corruption must be seriously ethically evaluated, continued political judgment, but also socially responsible. Anyone acting in a public capacity has all the legal responsibilities and responsibilities of his own conscience and ethics in performing public affairs. The creation and promotion of political will and determination of authorities are crucial to curb corruption. Public change research, both domestic and foreign. Public reactions show that citizens believe that corruption exists, that it is widespread, that it is condemned and that decisive measures are needed to combat it. Already doubting the corruption of the political system is challenging all three constitutionally established authorities and local authorities, resulting in a widespread belief that politics is not an activity for public good but for the personal benefit of politicians. The responsible authority must plan and implement measures to prevent the prevention of corruption, but not campaignally but systematically as a permanent activity for the benefit of the social community. Only by continuous action can gradually and systematically combat corruption and at the same time reconfirm policy as a public good activity. The fact that a large number of Croatian citizens believe that a state official who creates a conflict of interest should be banned from acting as state officials for life, says to what extent Croatian citizens are sensitive to the problem of conflict of interest among those who have shown their trust. The effective suppression of corruption from the very beginning is one of the most important priorities for Croatia's accession to the European Union. In the latest report by the European Commission delegation on Croatia's progress, the conflict of interest was set out as a particularly important segment. As it is a law that is intruding into an extremely sensitive issue, the mutual proseness of politics, authorities, public administrations, personal interests and abuse of power, and given the dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens with the current social economic situation, it is very important that the holders of executive and legislative authorities clearly and resolutely prove that they are ready to combat a conflict of interest at all levels. It is certain that in the sanctioning segment this bill will not achieve this because unfortunately it shows some very serious shortcomings. The fact that the commission would no longer be chaired by a representative of the parliamentary opposition means a greater influence by the authorities on the commission, and by increasing the number of MPs, i.e. the influence of the policy on the work of the commission, and by reducing public control over the work of state officials. It is also omitted to make it clear what is a conflict of public and private so that officials and the public know what is allowed and what is not, that, among other things, the institute of conflict of interest would not become an instrument of political struggle. It appears that some proposed amendments and additions to the law will not get the desired results, while some measures are missing especially when it comes to sanctioning conflicts of interest. Among the basic issues to be regulated by the law is to tighten sanctions in the event of the existence of a conflict of interest between public officials and to strengthen legal instruments to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. An increase in the amount of sanctions to 5 thousand and 10 thousand kuna, respectively, will not respond to the above-mentioned need. The Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest in 2006 and 2007 found that 12 officials were in conflict of interest, but none of them were subject to any sanctions. It is very certain that the implementation of the sanctions, the suspension of the payment of part of the official's net monthly salary will run into problems, as it does not specify exactly which body and how it implements this sanction. Furthermore, the draft law among the officials to whom the law applies also includes the presidents of the management of companies that are wholly state-owned. I note that it is also necessary to include the presidents of the management of companies owned by regional administrations and local self-government because conflict of interest is the most present at this very level of government. For example, of the 12 officials whose commission identified the situation of conflict of interest, 10 of them are officials of regional administration or local self-government. Local self-government also often handles extremely large amounts of money that necessarily entails an increased potential for conflict of interest. The sanctioning of officials in conflict of interest is an extremely important, sensitive and potentially dangerous area. If sanctions are not adequately prescribed and particularly not implemented, they could result in a complete loss of citizens' confidence in public authorities and contribute to social dissatisfaction and instability. Since moral and political responsibility do not have almost any meaning and weight in our country, this law needed to regulate that, as a sanction for the serious forms of conflict of interest, public officials were required to resign. Public officials should avoid activities relating to their private interests which may create an incorrect advantage resulting from confidential internal information obtained during the performance of official duties, where information is not available to the general public and are expected not to abuse their position and government resources in order to achieve private profits. Public officials are expected not to abuse the public or official position they previously had, including confidential information they had in that position, especially when they seek employment or appointment to a new post after leaving the public post. It is no secret that the trust of Croatian citizens in the state institutions is quite low. We have warned of this, and it is obvious that it should continue to be warned. This should also be changed and it is a task for us here in the Croatian Parliament and for all actors on the political and public scene. Among them, particularly should be prominent civil society and media organisations that have done much to raise public awareness about the existence of problems and the gravity of the consequences that this can have on the construction and stability of democratic institutions. This is, in fact, a guarantee of both economic and political development. Presumption of development, the assumption of any change in this country is the existence of political will. A quality legal framework, a framework that follows standards that are respected in the countries that we need to and besides, so often we like to compare, is not possible to set without what is called political will. It also needs to be added to the need for consensus among actors on the political scene, which is precisely the missing link. This is also recognised at European Union level, i.e. the European Commission. It is important that data on the property of officials and how they acquired it be made public, available to all, and decisions made by the Commission in the register on the Internet. This is yet to happen in Croatia. When and if all information on officials is made available to the public, when their conduct is in the right sense subject to that word to the court of the public, responsible or at least more responsible behaviour of the public authority may be expected. We still have a lot to learn about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7940	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7941	Dear colleagues, you have rightly pointed out that this law did not include responsible persons in companies that were largely owned by local regional self-government units. For no real reason, however, the bill includes members of the county, city and municipal heads. It is as if we forgot that on 17 May of the following year, the Law on the selection of mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors who no longer foresee the existence of city headsmen enters into force, so I do not understand who this provision will apply to, since all the members of these heads are volunteers. Furthermore, you also mentioned a system of transparency of property data for officials who are also established by these amendments, and we forgot that, for example, judicial officials are excluded because their data is stored in the justice ministry's safe. And ours are available to everyone, to the general public, and that's not the data, so they're neither verifiable and impossible to react in cases where there's really a reason to doubt whether the data that was entered is correct and complete or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7942	Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7943	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, why are we actually bringing amendments to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest? He says it would be a more successful fight against corruption. However, I ask myself why this, why this Croatian Parliament is not changed and complemented when they are of such quality, has not brought it before, because this stemmed from the obligation of the National Strategy to combat corruption in 2006-2008 adopted by this Croatian Parliament on 31 March 2006. So, to a large extent, we want to prevent conflict of interest by improving the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which applies, of course, to officials, and we are two years behind schedule. And then further, the underlying reason why these changes are being adopted and complemented is said to remove any public doubts about the integrity of politics and authorities. So, we have this law, amendments and additions, of course, in Purgatory we will, I have no doubt that most will raise hands for this law, for the amendments and additions of this law, despite probably amendments, however, that this will be the reason for it to be removed in public, as said here in the bill, any doubts about the integrity of politics and authorities, I think that's funny. What changes in these changes and additions? Of course, you can't get into everything, but to those major changes yes. He says who are the officials, so they are now deputy mayors, municipal chiefs and members of the county heads, or municipal and city heads. But, okay, I don't think that's particularly important, and I even think that, in some ways, it's a completely irrelevant, marginal fact if we try to prevent corruption from changing and supplementing it. Says the president of the state-owned company management. I agree. I agree that they are exposed in a way, daily possible conflict of their own personal and public interest. But they are also exposed if the members of the head offices are at lower levels of officials, and they are thus exposed to the presidents of companies owned by municipalities, cities, counties or largely owned, even I think significantly more than in state-owned companies. I don't know if it may be forgotten that according to this principle or criterion and there are institutions, there are institutions both in state ownership, but also in the ownership of units of local and regional self-government that also have great traffic annually and where the directors, directors of these institutions, are very much subject to the conflict of public and personal interest. The fact that officials can be on two supervisory boards doesn't mean that they won't stop a little corruption and that's not some particular reason for us to go here to change and supplement this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. What this means is that if an official is pictured in only two supervisory boards of companies, i.e. an institution or extra-financial funds, that the fact that he is an official in two supervisory committees is that he will reduce perhaps corruption, that he will reduce the possibility of public and personal conflict of interest. Well, he won't. He says the conflict of interest is decided by the Commission on the conflict of interest of 11 members. As the election was being held, three out of the opposition, three out of the ruling furniture and five out of the ranks of prominent public employees, but whoever calls for these five members of the committee from the ranks of public dignitaries. The call is referred to by the Selection and Appointing Committee and the proposal is also adopted by the Selection and Appointing Committee. Who has a majority on the Board of Selection and Appointment? Well, he's got most of it ruling. Therefore, there is no doubt that this commission will, in this way and in such an election procedure, be at the will of those who are here and at this moment, tomorrow may be someone else, but at the will of the ruling. It can even happen that these five members of public officials, four of which are members of one of the parties, and then we will propose to the Croatian Assembly five persons from the ranks of prominent public employees of which four of them will be in some party and we will leave the one who will be an outsider. Who do you think will be the one who won't be in any party? Well, he'll be the future president. We will vote by the will of the majority here, by the will of the ruling five public employees, four will be in the party, the one already predestined to be elected president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. And finally, if we really want to democratisation in this part, we could at least say that the commission and members of the commission are chosen as much as possible by qualified majority but why not two-thirds majority, so why not by consensus if it is in our interest, if we really want to prevent the officials from conflicting interest and allow the Commission to make decisions that will be welcomed by the Croatian public. The sanctions, in fact, which is most of the changes and additions I wouldn't talk about. The sanctions in the amount are small but I also believe that if someone came in an opportunity to be in conflict of interest, if the commission made a decision that it really was a conflict of interest, then there are legal system institutions and the criminal code under which the procedure goes on for the work that the official was in conflict of interest. Furthermore, I think these amendments and additions to the law can be welcomed in any case. In a way, they give the rules of conduct to officials, the official hands over the property card, we can monitor the property situation of officials, and some kind of public oversight and control can be carried out, about the property of officials, and what the official actually has, he owns at the beginning of the entry into office and finally. But will it prevent or at least reduce conflict of interest? Well, he won't. And let me just say that people actually understand what this is about. To express your opinion, conflict of interest and this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest translated into a national law on the prevention of thieving. So why am I saying this law won't bring anything new? Well, we have a lot of laws, we have a lot of institutions from the police, USKOK, the State's Attorney's office to prevent a conflict of interest right now and to prevent this thieving. You have an interesting thing about this Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that an official may receive a gift at the height of one third of the average personal income. So, I think it's completely declassified. If citizens, if we accuse ordinary citizens of, for example, the latest case of a doctor in Osijek for a sweatpants that is completely below 500 kuna and give the official a gift or more times a gift in that and in that same value, then I think it is completely deplaced to say that these amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest will also prevent corruption. No, we'll still have Maestral, and Liburnia and all that was. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7944	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Šišljagic, I agree with you that this law will not solve the problem of conflict of interest in the Republic of Croatia because it is not yet being adopted. This is a formal assumption in front of the European Union. Namely, conflict of interest is a broader social problem than criminal-legal responsibility and civil-legal relations. The issue is the moral and political responsibility of a man who has received trust from a citizen or an institution, so the law stipulates that the moral inadequacy or insubordination of a fine of 10 thousand kuna. If the promoter thinks that the issue of morality in Croatian society politics will be solved with 10 thousand kunas, then it is indeed optimism not only normative but also political that has no cover. I suggest we go back to an important debate, which is that citizens get a majority in the commission, not politicians. And citizens would have to evaluate and sanction any conflict of interest as unworthy behaviour towards them. That would be the meaning of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7946	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic,
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7947	Thank you very much. I agree, Mr. Leco, that the sanctions are actually small, that it's some sort of, let's say more moral sanctions. I also agree in that section that most citizens, therefore, should be public in the commission. However, also at the time when the commission decides on a conflict of interest, then other than that moral category exists in most cases and criminal responsibility. I think that's where we completely failed, that the competent institutions, such as the police, USKOK, the state's attorney's office, have failed to act after the commission's decision or the decisions of the previous commission. And that's why we're having a number of affairs today that actually stem from, or that come from conflicts of interest. Both Liburnia and Maestro and Brodosplit and Viktor Lenac and Bechtel and Imostroy, so we don't talk about a public private partnership where no one has scratched, for example around the Osijek Hall, because it's practically no one's interested. But he's curious if a doctor or a counterman got coffee, a bottle of drinks, and then he goes so far as to lock him up and be in jail for a month or two.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7948	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Kola Šišljagic and you have noticed well, referred to the part of the argument that these changes want to remove any doubt in the conflict of interest of Croatian politicians. However, I cannot understand the allegations made yesterday in the oral explanation that the new structure and new way of choosing the commission is in the function of depolicing the commission. The commission has had four politicians, two opposition, two ruling politicians in the way so far, and the proposal envisions an increase in the number of politicians from four to six. Three ruling, three opposition, and he says it's depolitical. How can it be depolitical if we increase the number of members of the Commission from policy lines? If, therefore, the promoter really wants to depolitize this commission, let's put it together to be exclusively appointed, and filled, I don't know why 11, enough is 7 outside members. Without one politician in there. Or this proposal is only for that reason, and that part of the law is also changing to break down the opposition through the chairmanship of the committee. And that the existing members whose mandate was and could remain, one of them also has to fly out, which is why we are changing that part of the law, which was not originally planned to change. So, so much for depoliticization. And yet I would say that here is the maneuver of disenfranchising the opposition and in this instrument overseeing the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7950	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7951	Yes, I was saying something about a commission consisting of 11 members and a way of choosing this commission. So, the way this committee is elected when we talk about most of the commission is absolutely conducted and absolutely will be at the will of those who behave. Well, that's perfectly clear. So the position is referred to by the Board of Selection and Appointment, which is attended by prominent public employees in the Board of Elections and Appointing, most of those who act in power. And of course these public officials and public employees will be at the will of those who are currently acting in power. So it doesn't matter that today's HDZ, the HSS, or the coalition, tomorrow it's going to be someone else, we're really talking about something that citizens condemn, about the work of this committee, so let's choose this commission in some way by consensus and achieve the basic preconditions of the working committee, for decisions that will actually be acceptable to citizens. Not according to the will of one, second or third political options. I think this is the way the election was completely declassified. And it really can't be done about depoliticization, but more about politicization. And I don't know, someone said that we got commendation from the European Union when we talk about this part, I really don't understand the commendation of the European Union when this is the way the Commission's choice is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7952	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7953	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I spoke for the club yesterday. Here today I will say to continue and say that behind this name the prevention of conflicts of interest or the conflict of interest is actually a synonym or another name for corruption and crime that we are aware of all of our citizens, which is happening here and not elsewhere and which citizens are closely bound to say the name and effect of politics and politicians. As my colleague Šišljagic said, it is another name for thieving or Croatian raving. It actually started back in the criminal days, I say conversion and privatisation, or as one of my friends said was accepting. And since they're passing both left and right governments and actually who's "who's caved in", they've become "sniffed the donkey wolf," or "dogs bark and caravans pass," I think this bill and the law that will eventually be adopted will serve only for the occasional entertainment of the people, the entertainment of citizens who will be informed of occasional affairs in connection with this conflict, to say preventing conflicts of interest. We've heard that 12 cases were in the previous session and that no one was actually carrying any sanctions, nor was he prosecuted, persecuted, so persecuted, such machinations. When we talk about the commission itself that should be formed by the non-partisan people and the Priory we express our mistrust in this commission. Confidence is therefore, the mistrust has been expressed amongst ourselves in those who will act in that capacity, the future elected because the Priors already accuse them of working towards telling party interests, that they will be cheerleading and we don't actually have confidence in ourselves. It is precisely this left- and right-hand bickering on the composition of the commission that we are just showing that we do not have trust, and perhaps we do not have trust with right. Both speak of the composition of the commission and of what is important for the future work of the commission and for the assessment of what the commission will actually discuss and what it will do. It just proves in fact that exactly, and confirms that the thesis that would actually be unbiased as it is said by NGOs and all other people in the civil, civil sector should take a place in this commission and leave such a policy and politicians out of that commission because here we are constantly talking about whether it will be more of an opposition, whether it will be more of a ruling one. In fact, I am thinking, and if this commission were to be composed of members and outside politics then it would certainly have to make decisions by consensus. So, unanimously, because if the facts are established then I really don't see any reason why anyone with the power of logic, by the power of complicity, would make some sort of opposing, different decision than to call a thief a thief a thief, not to be kept secret or to be declared by someone for the sake of will of politics by some kind of dishonesty. And perhaps it's best that we put General Zagorec in charge of the president, perhaps for the chairman of the commission. I was talking about the fact that in this bill we are mostly dealing with supervisory committees and membership in supervisory committees as if it were the main source of corruption, crime, or conflict of interest. It may be and it's common, but it's not in charge. What about guessing? You know, someone mentioned in the Coning debate yesterday. Well, there wasn't a monitoring board. It is a bargaining, favouring economic crime, favouring private interest at the expense of public interest. Next, what about the human favor? What about clienteleism and nepotism, hiring towards grandmothers and uncles? There's not a single word about it here in this law of the European mark, and no one's saying anything about it, and our society and our citizens are crying out to be called once a thief's real name, to name and make known those who do so. And not to determine who he is and what property he entered with, I don't know, on some kind of duty. Well, that's what a man acquired at a time when he wasn't an official, and there are, therefore, legal institutions, judicial authorities, a state's attorney's office that can certainly take care of how a man acquires property. Finally, the future personal property card institution, or which will go as the next item of the agenda, will solve a lot in this case as well. Therefore, the question is at all the need for such a commission if there are clear written signs of crime and corruption in each card and may then be dealt with by the court, and the committee as the SDP gentleman said here now actually analyze someone's moral, political resemblance and its action. Well, that's ridiculous! Well, people are for prison, not for punishment, for imprisoning a public pillar, and a fine of £5,000. So will we prevent crime, corruption, nepotism, clientism and everything else? If that's what we think, then I think we're weak and we think that this law, or the bill, didn't solve it, and I think we need to fix it and spread it to everything I've been saying right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7954	Thank you. Replica, last minute, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm going back to this one for me very important, but a completely wrong finding in the bill. It says that these amendments and additions of the law will be removed, that is to say, to remove any suspicion from the public about the integrity of politics and authorities. Well, I'll be looking forward to today, or rather, Friday, very happy. Most will likely raise their hands for this law and we will remove any doubt about the integrity of politics and government. We'll also solve public procurement probably, where competent institutions have done nothing. For example, when getting a vehicle that even the president of the state is talking about, I don't even know how many times it's been done without public procurement, it's been misrepresented. The officials, of course, were involved in this case, and then we will also solve possible attempts of conflict of interest at the teaching-sports hall in Osijek. I'm not talking about other halls that are now being built and equipment for 161 million kuna, and we should have paid it together, Mr. Schucker and the state and the city. Imagine 843 million kunas over 24 years, but here it will be built in time for 161 million kunas. Right? We saved a lot of money. But we're not asking a question of responsibility, so good at the last minute we stopped it. And who was involved in that? So isn't there a BOOK here, there's no police, there's no state's attorney's office, so this is all about millions of people. Perhaps this commission will look at it a little, among other things, a little bit, and see which official or officials intended to steal from the state and the city of Osijek for so many millions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7956	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Bruno Kurelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7957	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Secretary of State who, though, is now on his way out, is an esteemed colleague and colleague. Yesterday and today in discussions on the conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties, the dominant focus was on resolving the organisational structure of this issue. Will we, through the model of such a proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Dutys, achieve our goal of removing public suspicion of the integrity of politics and government? I doubt it. I doubt that this problem can only be successfully solved through models to improve the organisational structure of this problem. And in this segment, the basis of the debates so far, it is evident that we from the opposition and you gentlemen from the government disagree with the good part of the solutions set up like this. Personally, I believe that a good part of the conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties here is the consequence of the organisational culture of life. I know, you'll say, it's not immune to our friends in Euro-Atlantic space, we heard it yesterday. We're so fond of geographically determining them. But this intensity in them is less, all those who have experience staying in those areas can testify. Of course, I'm talking here exclusively about a conflict of interest involving a conflict between public duty and the private interest of a public official, which is the space for this discussion here. Lord Acton still spoke, and there is hardly any authority that will not be subject to conflict of interest. The conflict of interest does not in itself have to be evidence of abuse. But the potential for such conflict can exist even if it does not result from an improper act. And the most honest ones sometimes lead to moral hazards. And therefore, fierce critics of conflict of interest among public officials sometimes use this saying. State officials must be like Caesar's wife. What's this about? When Gaius Julius Caesar divorced his other wife, he explained this to the Romans: "Caesar's wife must be above all reproach." When a elected official has the obvious power to influence the outcome of a decision in his favour or in behalf of his party, his environment, his fellowman, it reduces trust in the justice of management. I don't know which one of you still remembers Mona Sahlin, a Swedish politician, deputy minister in the Swedish government who was forced to resign in 1995, after she was discovered to buy diapers for her child with a state credit card. The public pressure was such that she had to step down. But let's get back to our backyard, gentlemen. Here we often pursue our own interests and privileges, employment, promotion once we defend by calling for general beliefs, and for the second time we defend our private beliefs with general interests. He calls Frane his best man to the ministry and says, "My kid's finished fresh, he hires him, he's not some Lumen Ante, but he's ours, you can peek at him." And most importantly, with such actions that become part of everyday life, society becomes conflicting because there is a constant conflict of interest and belief. And that's why with us tic democracy and its appreciation since then, the prime minister's spokeswoman becomes a model of creative success. Or the news recently announced that the prime minister in Vukovar celebrated the party's election by using an official private-use plane, which was so characterised by the current government spokesman. It is an unofficial trip, or visit, that government aircraft is often used to effectively carry out planned activities. It's the source of 24 hours. And so it becomes a way of life, a way of thinking. Therefore, there was no wonder when the November 2007 European Commission report on Croatia said: "It is not a good understanding of the concept of conflict of interest." And I'm finally going back to what paper will cloud so effectively, making will show how to detect and more valuable sanction a conflict of interest in this country. I personally consider the issue that only a member of the committee in the order of non-partisan persons can be elected as chairman of the commission. To everyone who is brighter and fairer, it is clear that the work of the opposition in the commission is becoming questionable, in fact marginalized on these issues. Well, the opposition is here to control the government, although it could be heard yesterday that there is almost no conflict of interest on the duty scene. Therefore, I suppose the role of the opposition here is not necessary. Don't tell me that control with more interest will be performed by non-partisan members. Well, as we've heard here, the non-partisan members will be loyal to those who chose them. I guess that's clear. And then another pearl. The committee meetings should be open to the public in the future, except when voting. I have to admit, this formulation seems ridiculous to me. At least to me personally. According to that folk, I have an opinion, but I disagree with him and I keep it to myself. And then two bad solutions, one promising. Officials may be members of no more than two boards of commercial societies and institutions, as well as extra-financial funds of particular national interest. It's promising in relation to practice so far, but not for the purpose of conflict of interest. When we circle, I remember the division among complex brothers. You do it, gentlemen like this. One for me, one for you, two for me, one for you and so on, and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7958	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7959	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague convinced a phone call and personally bothered me what the phone conversation ended with a source. Such a verb is used only in some parts of Croatia and I want to believe that my esteemed colleague didn't think that relationships and acquaintances were only about people who speak a hoax, so I am giving him this replica to convince me that he didn't mean it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7960	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Bruno Kurelić, must be raised second time...... It's all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7961	... more apologies, because I really didn't think this was just a voice problem, or an area I listed here in a speech statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7962	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Marin Brkarić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So corruption is a problem that almost every European Union report stands out as an example of the inefficient work of the former and current government. The question I would ask all of us, are we actually aware of the extent to which corruption in Croatia is the problem? We don't often talk about someone, but colleague Cain can talk to me. ... Then please be quiet. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the question is, are we even aware of how much corruption is the problem? In the world, World Bank research estimates that corruption takes a thousand to a thousand and 500 billion dollars a year. It's 3 to 5% of the total economic activity in the world. All 1% of corrupt activities are detected. And if we move that method to Croatia now, we're going to get about six billion kunas a year that go into various corruption activities. In the work of experts from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, the quality of public governance and economic growth of Croatia has been shown to increase Croatia's GDP by 15% when Croatia reached the level of rule of law as the government, for example, in the European Union. Three issues are important which we ourselves must ask when we want Croatian society to resist corruption more strongly. The first question is whether there's corruption and how it's viewed. The second question is what is the breadth of corruption and in which areas is the most present and harmful. If we know the answer to these two questions then we start with the third most important, what to do in fighting corruption. In Croatia, changes related to corruption have come from the realization that corruption is inevitable until it is harmful. From a moral condemnation to the political necessity of reform and the suppression of corruption, we can talk about three stages. And all the things that professor said. Hebrang yesterday why corruption was present in Croatia, it was actually the first ten years of Croatia's independence, so from the beginning of '90 until the end of '90 when corruption was considered morally important, but not a political problem. Anti-corruption in those 10 years except for cursing and condemnation has not been done much. This is the age of a non-democratic corruption deviation, the only cure was more democracy, and this begins the second phase of January 3, 2000 when the phase actually takes place to this day. At that stage, it is clearly recognised that there is a problem of corruption, programmes and plans are being created, international obligations are being accepted, but unfortunately everything remains mostly in words and not in deeds. And today under the pressure of the European Union, we are entering stage three. This third phase is a phase where we all know it's not enough to have laws, it's supposed to be implemented. It is not enough to guess, to measure and weigh priorities, to activate resources, people and tasks. It's a famous saying, justice doesn't just have to be done, it needs to be seen. And if we compare the situation today and five years ago, we'll agree that the situation is better. However, it is sad that the merits for this do not actually go to the institutions of government but first by pressure from media and civil society, and that is where I disagree with my colleague Caine, who spoke a lot about the media yesterday, but in a negative context when it comes to corruption. Because I believe that media pressures in collaboration with civil society have done much more than the institution of government, and the primary task of the institution is to ensure the credibility of the government and the return of citizens' trust. The media is very important here. It's known that people don't behave the way things are, but the way they see things. And who helps them see things, of course they're the media. And here I have to mention that I am uneasyly surprised that the National Council for Combating Corruption, which I am at the head of, but which still does not work since no outside members have been elected, has proposed that as a representative of the media, Mrs. Smiljanka Škugor-Hrncevic, Director of HINA, go to this council. Although the Croatian Press Society, together with the Croatian Radio Television for Media Representative, proposed Luka Braid, vice president and member of the Executive Board of the Croatian Journalist Society. And I would remind you that an officer elected and appointed by the ruling majority cannot be a representative of the civil sector, or media. So by the very choice of people who need to be in a manner of persuasion to control the implementation of the anti-corruption programme, the Committee on Selection and Design shows that in this body as well as in the body, such as this Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is creating a climate of public mistrust, and most importantly in the fight against corruption, the public has confidence in the institutions of government in this case in the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and in the National Council for Combating Corruption. Therefore, Mrs Smiljanka Skugor-Hrncevic cannot, on any basis, be a representative of the media in the National Council for the fight against corruption. And what do the citizens say? Citizens say 72% of civil servants are corrupt in Croatia. We often use the corruption perception index as some kind of best indicator. It's a good indicator, but it's not the best. I'm not going to go into detail now, because I don't have time to explain why this index isn't the best, and I'm going to tell you the easiest thing is that he's the average guy who takes pears and apples on that average. Today there are many other indicators of the World Bank, as well as Transparency International, which are better indicators. Why are we using this one? Because it shows as some kind of best move, but it's really just seemingly because that shift is happening at the level of Lesota, Egypt and the countries of that rank. That's how we got to the National Corruption Management Programme, which was adopted in 2006. He noted that in Croatia the biggest problems of corruption in the judiciary, health care and local self-government, public administration and politics are based on six chapters to prove that our society is mature and ready to fight corruption. These are the judiciary, health care, local self-government, politics and public administration, the economy in particular, the public procurement sector and education, science and sport. Chapter 4 is politics and public administration. It begins with the assumption that the public in Croatia is equating politics with the action of political parties although it is not true, because every exercise is a public government. And those of us who do this power, the political will and the determination to combat corruption are best shown by the intention of resolutely curbing corruption in politics and government. It is imagined, under this national programme, that this is achieved by precise regulation of political party financing, state administration reform and public services, e.g. the right to access information, the handover of authorities, and this topic of ours today, therefore, by preventing conflicts of interest. The existing law was passed in 2003 and it was indeed intended to remove any doubt about the ethical correctness and interest motives of officials in order not to violate citizens' trust. The amendments proposed, precisely because of citizens' trust, should not have come before the Parliament in this way. Therefore, first and foremost, members of the old commission were to be consulted, civil society associations were to offer answers to the demands required by the National Strategy adopted by this Assembly. This law was a classic example of how public trust is acquired, citizens in government institutions. This law had to go to a wide public debate in which citizens could see what conflict of interest meant and what it means to prevent conflict of interest. This way we adopt the law does exactly the opposite. I will not enter certain articles, as my colleagues from the SDP have already said so much, but I must mention that I am surprised by the statements made by the Vice-President, Mrs Adlesic, State Secretary Palaric, who are talking about some enthusiasm of the European parliamentarians proposed by the amendments. Croatia, today and in the area of preventing conflicts of interest, is also obliged to follow international rules, e.g. United Nations Convention on the Prevention of Corruption 2005, World Bank or OECD guidelines. It is interesting, for example, that the 2005 Convention sets a dilemma as to whether extending the list of officials is necessary to contribute to a better prevention of conflicts of interest. However, one can see a comment that says: "The possibility of implementing a regulatory conflict of interest, when it comes to top officials, is vice versa." At the last OECD conference in 2005, whose web pages provide these guidelines, you can see what a guideline is, what world trends are in preventing conflicts of interest, but none of them are in the proposed changes. Therefore, experience from 2003 to today shows that these legal changes had to be a priority to preventing conflicts of interest at the highest level of officials. The number of officials under the existing law should be reviewed, specific rules should be adopted for local self-government, then rules that will regulate the impact of economic operators, for example. rules in lobbying, specific rules should be developed in areas such as healthcare, education or construction. None of this has been done, and in the dilemma of the composition of the Committee, it is my personal choice that the Commission should make up persons who are neither officials nor party or state. Therefore, the proposal to amend the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, unfortunately, will not contribute to increasing public opinion and reducing the perception of the corruption index in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7964	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7965	Thank you very much. My colleague incorrectly said that they were in '90s. until 2000 were the years of corruption, because it was a time of non-democracy. I'd remind my colleague if that wasn't true. It was a time of war. And we ended our wartime with a corruption index better than three, which means in the upper house of the world's countries, none of which were ahead of us had eight years of war like Croatia. So he turned the truth into his political goal. Secondly, as regards the protest over Smiljka Škugor, and we read in the press that it was a protest of the Croatian Journalist Society, he is of course not justified because he was a public call, the media had the right to propose their candidates. HND already has one member inside, that's Mr. Nikola Kristic, so I guess he'd like to have another, and that wouldn't be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7966	Thank you. We have another correction, Mr. Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7967	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It's about turning things around, as Mr. Hebrang mentioned earlier. In fact, respected counterpart Jovanovic is talking about how civil society, media and others have contributed greatly to lighting, therefore, this issue. They're like non-partisan and they should be consulted. Well, I would like you now, Mr. Jovanovic, so don't you now also offer yourself as persons of non-party people and now they're not good for you, they're now oriented party, because they're like now in HDZ function. So it wouldn't be like that, it's just turning things around. And our institutions, surely it is the only truth, are ready to fight corruption because it has neither party color nor national nor any other.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7968	Correction, Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7969	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I have to correct my colleague Jovanovic who said that since 2000, on January 3, 2000, there is a completely different trend regarding corruption, so corruption is almost gone. I must remind him that just between January 3, 2000 and the end of 2003, there was an unremembered case of corruption, housing robbery, construction of POS apartments, building houses for the victims, just because the coalition government was weak and tolerated its partners whatever it wanted. And I believe that these very cases today and tomorrow will be in the book of corruption, as the most significant examples of corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7970	Thank you. We have two replicas. First it's Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, you have very well noticed that any corruption is also a conflict of interest. The corruption of a state official is always a conflict of interest. However, conflict of interest is not always corruption. And that problem doesn't work out this law. Namely, conflict of interest can be when, and usually so, the official has a biased attitude of public duty and thus offends citizens' trust. Therefore, one who has received the confidence of citizens to act in public responsibilities must forget his private interest in the conduct of that public duty or of the related groups and individuals. That is why the problem is that the European Union tells us that conflict of interest is about harming citizens' interests in a given way, not just corruption. That's why I always advocate that citizens have a major point of view when it comes to the trust of officials with citizens and the assessment of conflicts of interest. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7972	Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7973	Here, I actually have to relate to my colleague Lek and say that this is exactly one of the main remarks, that the way we are making this law is not good, because that it has been passed through a wider public debate could have made the issue of corruption a much better light up, a much better light up the issue of conflict of interest and, in some ways, to educate citizens about what is a conflict of interest and how a conflict of interest can be fought and enable citizens to regain confidence in all of us sitting here. That is why I do not understand why in this way a law is passed which is actually in favour of all of us, and in favour of perception, reduction of the perception of the corruption index in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7974	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7975	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Here, counterpart Jovanovic said in his debate that he is a member of the National Council for Combating Corruption, is he a colleague? It is an honorable place for me and a responsible place but I would like to introduce you to a situation here and to the public what you have taken as a member of the National Council in Zagreb Holding. Do you know that it is a public secret that the members of the Zagreb holding company Zrinjevac and ZET, that it is a public secret that they have a price for jobs and that in ZET, a driver is asked for 5,000 euros to get a job and in Zrinjevac where the grass is cut, you know a worker who cuts grass to get a job must give 3,000 euros. Dear colleague, I ask you to arrange for me but I also ask you to take along with the membership of the National Council for the fight against corruption that this is no longer happening in the city of Zagreb because the citizens of the city of Zagreb pay 18% of the city of Zagreb the largest in the Republic of Croatia and the quarter of Bezovica has no plumbing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7976	For the sake of accuracy, Mr. Jovanovic is the chairman of that committee, or the commission. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7977	Yes, Mrs. Solic, here's the President of the Parliament said that on my behalf, but I will point out once again because it is something I consider extremely honorable and responsible. I am the president of the National Council for Combating Corruption in Croatia. Unfortunately, it hasn't met yet because we haven't named the outside members. Therefore, it is a problem among other things that suggests that this High Council has not yet created a prerequisite for the National Council to start working. As far as what you're talking about, I'm asking you to file a criminal report to the State's Attorney's office or stop slandering. When you apply to the State's Attorney's Office, come to me, to the president of the National Council for Anti-Corruption and I will contact Mr. Bajic and insist that the case you reported be resolved within the minimum possible time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7978	Thank you very much. I'll give you names and names.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7979	Thank you very much. Mr. Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7980	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try very briefly to say something about amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. First of all, I will personally say that I am in favour of strengthening the fight against corruption that is being advocated and all the MPs in this Croatian Assembly. I certainly advocate the prevention of conflicts of interest, I advocate the strengthening of transparency. I also support the tightening of sanctions in this bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest and of course for the overall democratisation of this Croatian society. I would certainly be much more pleased if we had received a new bill in view of the numerous irregularities in the current law, the 2003 law in which the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest had to intervene with its opinions and certainly one such whole new text would have been much more quality. However, since these amendments and amendments to the law are in an emergency procedure, I will say a few of my remarks, and I believe that the promoter will accept them. First of all, I propose that the article 1 which states that officials are members of the county, city and municipal chiefities and the headship of the city of Zagreb is deleted for one basic reason why we all know that with May of 2009, urban, municipal, and county heads, and in the transitional provisions of this proposal, the amendments and addition of the law appear to refer to officials who will be appointed, meaning the fulfillment of these property cards after a new form following the entry into force of this law. I think and I believe it's a mistake and it's going to be fixed. Furthermore, I suggest that in the area where they stand, where they are listed as management officials, commercial companies that are entirely state-owned, I would say that it would be a much better formulation if they were in the majority ownership of the state or regional, regional or local self-government. And as well as fellow representatives Šišljagic, I certainly believe that it is missed to write institutions whose founders are regional and local authorities, as well as banks, perhaps insurance companies, means where the state has a control package or majority package. But normally, the legislator believes that it can fix that part itself. Article 3 states that exceptional officials may be members of no more than two supervisory boards or administrative boards resulting from the fact that a member is three supervisory boards or three boards of directors that he is not in conflict of interest. If it's in two that part is allowed. I don't think that formula is good for me anyway. So, if there's a conflict of interest in the board of directors that it's two or three, I think it's a much more quality formulation that officials can't be members of supervisory boards and boards of directors. And in Article 4, I propose what is part of a lot of MPs and said to the chairman of the commission to be the representative of the opposition for one basic reason that the opposition in this House has exactly that control function. We know that the opposition is now like this, in the next election it will be different. So I stand for the principle that the opposition chooses from its ranks, or only the commission chooses the president from the opposition's ranks. So, the same formula that was in the present proposal, that is, in the current law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7981	Thank you very much. On behalf of the clubs five minutes at a time. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7982	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The only important change in this law is the composition of the commission. There will be 11 members, only 3 of the opposition, 8 of the ruling. And who will trust such a committee? Come on, be smart. Who can trust such a committee to do it impartially? So the ruling will control himself or otherwise, he will be without any control. With this bill, the rulings are completely exempt from any possibility that this new commission will mark them as officials in the conflict of interest. Evidence of this is the way in which other bodies appointed by the Parliament are filled. For example, the National Council for the Prevention of Corruption. That's what my colleague Jovanovic was talking about. Here in the Committee on Selection and Appointments, and the proposal will probably come here on Friday at the Plenary session of HDZ's majority and coalition partners, of course, will not, for example, dean of Professor Kregar's law school known, recognised, proven anti-corruption fighter, but will want Professor Horvatic a famous, recognized and proven lawyer close to HDZ. It's a way of filling the body, so-called. independent or not party persons. That's how it's gonna be in this committee, why it'd be different anyway. The HDZ has clearly decided to euthanize this commission. And that proves the fact that the commission doesn't work today, even though the law hasn't been amended yet. HDZ's majority and coalition partners did not want to appoint members of the commission, the current law, the applicable law, even though proposals from clubs came to the bench. The explanation is just incomprehensible. Yesterday we heard it from the HDZ ranks. It reads: "We will not apply the existing law, because we are preparing a new one.". Now let's apply it to some other law. Imagine that's how we deal with all the laws. So we say, we won't apply criminal law, because the government is just preparing a new one. And then people can kill, steal, do whatever they want, because the Penal Code won't apply because it's new. This law does not apply for two months, two months there is no one to control the conflict of interest. In two months, you could do whatever you wanted. And it will still be possible to work when this commission is put together. That, the situation itself, is a conflict of interest. Because there is a public interest that the commission acts, that it works by law and there is a private interest that it does not work, the private interest of HDZ and the coalition partners. And then the private interest that the commission does not work is imposed on the general or public interest, even if it violates the law. It doesn't matter to the ruling one, they break the law, they don't break the law, they don't have a commission, they don't have anyone to control them, and when they do, it's their choice. The most dangerous corruption is the policy-related one. The law, this amended one will not contain that most dangerous form of corruption. He will encourage him because every control for the ruling furniture will disappear. The only ally to keep you from doing that is the public. And I call on the press, the press, the general public to help us and not to let you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7983	Thank you. We have two corrections, the first Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7984	Thank you very much. counterpart Stazic was wrongly quoted as saying that the aim of this law is to bring in three members affected by the opposition and 8 by the will of the ruling. If he had read the bill then he would have seen that the ruling coalition has the right to propose only three members as well as the opposition, but it is necessary to read the laws. The other five members are not party and prominent persons, so that's exactly what he said, not what he said. And secondly, he prejudged the moral correctness of Professor Kregar and not the correctness of Professor Horvatic, that is not true at all. Because as far as we know, the media called each of the public employees for an affair, so they also called Professor Kregar for that famous affair of getting a tenant loan while he was on the board of a funeral company. So if we went after who wrote what and read to whom, then we could give everyone a stain. But it is not right for unverified data to be presented in public as did fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7985	Correction, Mr. Kruno Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7986	Here, I thank a colleague who keeps turning off the microphone when I turn it on, but good. What's there? So, here, two falses said fellow Stazic, with clear, whole series of other charges. Namely, one is about the prominent academic Horvatic, and the other one is about Professor Kregar. In fact, Professor Kregar, I don't remember being a prominent anti-corruption fighter, but as chairman of the post-mortem aid supervisory board, when she was waiting for the poor girl, paying for the misery, the misery for, that they could be properly buried, took credit for the apartment at that time, at the time of inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7987	My colleagues, let's refrain from these, say, mentioning individual names. Let's stick to principles 'cause then we're going to something third, right? Five minutes, in conclusion, on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr Vladimi Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7988	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So no one argues that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is necessary, but it seems to me that it would be much better, that it would be much more meaningful if a new law on the prevention of conflicts of interest had actually been passed. I think in these few years as far as the commission has been doing, that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that people who were members of this committee in some way and had experience in the work of the commission, could say a lot about the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest related to these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, of course, on the basis of work so far. However, it has been missed as much as the means of public communication, so it could be found out in public talks, and at least I would say strangely that the president of the committee who worked for 4 years, that the members of the committee who could therefore see the shortcomings were not consulted, that their opinions were not accepted, that their comments were not accepted, that their proposals were not accepted. And that they were accepted seems to me to be discussing today or perhaps another day about a new bill on preventing conflicts of interest. If they had not missed consultations, this proposal would probably have been far more quality and far better, and in this case they might not have been dragged through the Internet on the Commission's website by a variety of incorrect information about property cards, which, among other things, led to large problems for my colleagues and colleagues in this Croatian Parliament. On a personal example on several occasions my personal, my property card appeared on websites with a complete let's say a large part of the incorrect data. And imagine the situation where Croatian Parliament representative Vladimir Šišljagić has a large stake in the lawyer's office, so when he has Mazda, that's it. Well, when he's got a yacht, so I think it's complete, that it's inadmissible. What does your family say? What do your parents say to you, for example? And I'm not an isolated case. Therefore, I do not think that the members of the committee and the president had an impact on this, but this commission did not have a proper professional service. So, in principle, I think these amendments and the additions to the law are good. Of course, they could have been far better and better quality. However, every government, including this current institution, seeks to subdue, to have influence over institutions that make important and important decisions, and so is the Commission's choice. I was saying something. I think the way to choose the commission is that it is not good and that this is how this commission is in the role of the ruling. Today it is the HDZ coalition, HSS, HSLS, tomorrow it will be someone else, and we are all actually in the interest of restoring both politicians and politicians' reputation. Because the perception of the public about us politicians who deal with politics and this social activity is really below all levels. Therefore, both the position of the government and the opposition today and tomorrow will indeed be in the interest to pass a quality law and to regulate the rules of conduct of officials. I therefore hope that good proposals and remarks that came from the lines of the opposition will be applied to these amendments and amendments of the law, because I do not think there is any reason why we together should not adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7989	Thank you very much. And another five minutes on behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7990	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. It is clear that there is no dilemma that crime in politics has and it needs to be absolutely eradicated and to those individuals society must be ruthless, zero point of tolerance. I am clearly not asking the public to spare those grades from the Parliament, to spare any parliamentary representative. No! No! I will not say that the Parliament is sinless, that parliamentary representatives are saints, but I am not far from the truth if I say that the Parliament in public life may be the best that Croatia has at this time. I dare say that the Parliament is far better than the good part of the media and the good part of the union and the good part of the converted capital, better than the good part of the executive government, NGOs, etc. etc. Mr. Jovanovic, I didn't attack the media yesterday. The media is very important, I agree with that. They're absolutely irreplaceable. However, the same good part of the people who work there are far from ideal. No one will write how they privatised the sector, how they operate in relation to large capital, how some journalists who even deal with some unholy things are doing, etc. However, regardless of all the media is irreplaceable, and if someone advocates being corrective, Damir Cain advocates it. But I also ask them for that password, “Honestly and toward all alike. ” On the other hand, today almost anyone can call. Why does it usually seem public? Because no danger or discomfort threatens anyone from this House. There's no public procurement here, there's no competition here, there's no money here. He calls us often so that others can do what they do so far. I claim that today power is not on this side of Mark's square where it should be, here in the assembly, but in the capital, in the media, and clearly in Pantovack and in the executive government. We are being set up by lunches, etc., we are called, and I do not know by the media, and on Croatian television there are 3 hundreds of people who have higher salaries than ministers and I do not count any further. It may be unnecessary to waste words on unionists, but I want to say the following. Without a strong parliament, parliamentism will be weak, without a credible parliament or Croatian citizens will not be better, and it is clear that this Parliament too needs to be closely monitored. Here in this legislative proposal we are talking about companies whose directors have to report assets if they are 100 percent state-owned. So, the director of Croatian Radio Television will have to do that. I call on the editor-in-chief to do the same. A representative's property against theirs is ridiculous. I would even dare say when this property relationship, the property relationship, is that the representatives are just babies to them. I also advocate that this property must be reported by the directors of all companies in which the state has a share of at least 25%, meaning not 50%, of at least 25%. Well, clearly, the director of Croatia's insurance should report it, or the director of the INE. So he has 14, 15 or 20 billion kunas on the annual level. I think that trade unionists should also say in what links their daughters have with, say, Todorovic, which are their salaries, because without a strong union movement and the social state will be weak, workers' rights will be weak and the position of workers, small entrepreneurs, will also be weak and not to count further. What the IDS Club also advocates is that all who, for example, by the executive authority are working on some privatisations and are taking on a huge responsibility, e.g. The privatization of the Oilies is consistent with all their assets. If they're willing to make such a move, then in such a case, I will support that intention because I know that there is responsibility and goodwill behind something. It means for the end, what to do to stop breaking Parliament's reputation. Clearly, we will adopt this law, let it be written about all of us, although the adoption of the law will not be spectacular, but parallelly it should also be requested that all those who call Parliament under the same conditions as officials submit accounts of their property. Now that would be a matter of credibility, honesty and one moral principle. And without it, everything is one of the most common political larpurartism.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7991	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Antun Palaric. It's final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7992	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to try to sum up this two-day debate very briefly, at least the way we see it from the government benches. We have all found, on behalf of the Government, Madam Vice President and all speakers that corruption is a great evil and that corruption is unfortunately not immune to the Republic of Croatia and that evil should be created instruments for fighting and legal assumptions and given strong support to the continuing fight against corruption, with a high goal that will be eradicated, although we know that we will never end up rooting it out, but at least we will remove it from the dominant social and political processes. However, the Croatian government is committed to intensively continuing activities in the fight against corruption so far, institutions are being created new, but with the key to the fight against corruption still at the police, at the state's attorney's office, USKOK, courts for which bodies are provided with the necessary financial resources and which bodies are guaranteed the freedom of action. In addition, a whole series of measures has been prepared at a normative level, starting with the Single Identification Number Act, which will be spoken of by the respected finance minister shortly, to a new public procurement system, and thus by this law. This law and the commission it applies cannot replace the law of prosecution or shut down possible state officials, it must be one moral authority, a verdict in possible political sensitive disputes. And we intend all these bodies, and there are more of them who have been able to judge in political conflicts, depolitize as much as possible because it's unacceptable that one political option by the power of the fact that it sits on an individual body that has to be absolutely objective, using that position maybe also accusing someone, stegmatizing someone or putting someone on the agenda. The thesis is that this place belonged to the opposition of the president of the commission. That's not true. It was a fact and we thank you, we support the work of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, and it paved the way for work, gave good results, should continue, should be strengthened. However, the current law stipulates that the chairman of the commission should not be a member of a party acting in power. So, so far, he could have been a non-partisan person, and from now on, that is, when the law comes into force, that is how it will be. Questions have been raised about who to comply with this law and it is supported that we have extended it to companies in largely state-owned, which are entirely state-owned. There were objections to the members of the headship. Of course you can't tell us that we don't know when the Law on Local Self-Government will come into force, we wrote it, suggested it, defended it here. But it's another year, and it's been a year for someone who wants to take a chance, a big chance, and regardless of it, on the obligation to teach property cards, we want the other provisions of the law to apply to all those who are now listed as persons, as state officials in terms of this law, so on the rules on preventing conflicts of interest. We are confident that this law will take a few steps forward. Now we can't see what life will bring, what problems it will bring. We tried to simulate and we respected the opinion of the current, until yesterday's Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we carefully read the report they submitted, we accepted the suggestion to secure the means to publish their decisions, we introduced a new model that would be more effective, we lifted sanctions and we suggest that the expert commission be established. In fact, we felt that the Parliament had a strong professional service, especially when the County House was abolished, then there were plenty of employees now deployed on new jobs, could do so in this way, but we would like to strengthen the commission and propose to provide professional services and the government is ready to provide funds for the work of a larger number of non-partisan members of the commission and professional service. Of course, this commission must act as a moral authority and that it works in public and we have actually created assumptions, we are developing them in order for civil society to act freely in order for the media to act freely. I will remind all of us that more than 34 000 different associations work in Croatia. So, of course, this civil society, along with one such commission as we propose, will contribute to reducing the perception of corruption, to possible doubts of debate, to clarify and to objectively judge the possible situation. I am firmly convinced and this was the view of the government that there are moral authority in Croatia who are willing to contribute to raising the quality of political life in Croatia. The board will call for a public call, but I also use this opportunity to invite all those who are considered invited, who feel that they can contribute to Croatia's better work, report to the competition and will be to the general satisfaction of the chosen person who will be of unquestionable moral quality and high reputation in Croatian society. On several occasions, a consensus was based on the adoption of this law. I personally have no illusions that it will be passed unanimously, but many laws have been passed with a high number of votes. We will consider the amendments proposed, some and accept and believe that the law will be passed with a large number of votes and that we will say that Croatia and in this field are ready to face the challenges it poses among other things and membership in the European Union. I was talking about not doubting that this bill was well accepted by those who are watching us and that the declaration was adopted in Opatija on 30 April at a session of the Joint Committee of the Croatian Parliament and of the European Parliament, welcomed this bill, and we also delivered it to the experts of the European Commission and we incorporated some suggestions into the text. Thank you all very much for the discussion, for the contribution, and for those who have made criticism. The stronger the criticism, the more we are, the pain we do, I believe, and it seems to us that this step is certainly a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7993	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. But I'm willing to continue, too, but to skip the standards, to show that we're not up for any overvote, because we've adopted many of their amendments anyway. So, I am in favour of continuing, but we are moving to agenda item 14 final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. Number 45. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments submitted is divided into benches. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments, and this is Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7995	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7996	The first representative is Dragutin Lesar, his amendment first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7997	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7998	Sustained. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u7999	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8000	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Third, MP Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8001	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8002	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth, MP Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8003	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8004	Thank you. It's also an integral part of the law. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8005	We accept part of it. Increase from 10 to 30,000. We're the only ones who don't accept this part of our clothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8006	Now we have to vote because there is no proposal. So, the promoter is not here, but the government is in part accepting the amendment. And we can only plead on the entire amendment of the Proposer. So here I am putting the amendment to the vote. Who's for an amendment that the government only accepts in part? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Then, MP Ivo Josipovic also changed the sixth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8007	Unfortunately, this amendment cannot be accepted because it would increase the administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8008	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Seven, MP Ivo Josipovic also.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8009	We accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8010	Accepts?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8012	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eighth, MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8013	The amendment cannot be accepted because it proposes that members of the commission elect a president from the ranks of MPs. The government is proposing from the ranks of prominent public employees, so the president does not belong to the government or the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8014	Thank you. Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? No one. He didn't make it. Ninth, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8015	We accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8016	It becomes an integral part of the law. The tenth, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8017	Unfortunately, this amendment cannot be accepted and remains with the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8018	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment that doesn't, of course, have a proposal here, so who's the amendment? No one. He's not accepted. Eleven, the Government of the Republic of Croatia becomes an integral part, and will we discuss it? Was that within the time limit?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8019	It's all in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8020	What? Is it in time or do we have to open a debate on this amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8021	I don't think there's any need.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8022	Please. Do we accept the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's in? Thank you. Against? 3. So it's accepted to argue. I am opening a debate in the government's amendment to be explained by Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8023	I think that after the argument, the amendment will surely be acceptable to you because it is said that the decision on the sanctions of this article is delivered personally to the official and the delivery of the sanctions officer becomes enforceable, so the commission is delivered for the purpose of carrying out the accounting and paying service to the official or to make it very simple, it is deducted from the salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8024	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who is for this amendment to the government? Thank you. Against? 3. Most of the votes were accepted by this amendment. And 12, MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8025	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We cannot accept this amendment because it is said that public workers would continue their mandate. By enforcing the new law, everyone has the right to run again, including those who have already been candidates or have been elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-06-0.u8026	Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? No one. The amendment was not accepted. And I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. The debate is closed. A review of the amendments submitted, that's what we've seen. Who is behind this bill with the amendments that have been accepted? Please. Do you have the keys? You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. How about a score? Here you go. The law was passed with most votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against the amendments accepted. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Personal Identification, Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 52 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
