ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is another report from the Croatian Olympic Committee. I just want to briefly comment on it, draw attention to those points in the report that I hold to be the most important for this House of Commons. The report is structured in a way that shows the main strategic direction, the specifics of action in the past year. It's the part about finance and control. The first part shows sports results and thanks to God in sport, things are exact so that, and measurable, you can see from the first part of the report that our athletes and athletes have done everything in their power to cheer us up over the past year and to provide us with a large number of medals from world and European championships. This is what the government of the Republic of Croatia and the prime ministers who have adequately rewarded them for. It probably hurt the Minister Shuker more, but it made us all happy. In this part, we must especially point out that a large number of medals have been won and you can see it from the reports, from athletes and athletes who are part of individual programs to take care of young athletes. With this sentence, I would like to introduce you to the second part of the report on the development programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the development programs on which it was suggested in this House three years ago that we begin to develop them. Today we have a situation that in these development programs and individual care programmes more than 300 athletes and athletes aged 12 years and over. And we can responsibly say that today there are no younger athletes or athletes who are not covered by some of the development programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which means that they are all part of the system and financed by the system. The second part of the activity is related to promoting local sport. According to the report, the most significant increase was in the last year. Together with the ministry and local sports communities, we introduced a whole series of programmes and special programmes related to the promotion of sports on islands, in the war-devasted areas in the city of Vukovar and in the city of Knin, which produced extremely good results. The third segment is the essential activity of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is the preparation for the Olympic Games in Beijing and Vancouver. Here you will see that, as the situation today is also the number of qualified athletes, the result is actually beautiful and measurable again. We will certainly have 15 to 20% more participants in Beijing than we had in Athens, which is the consequence of all these programs that I was talking about. There were suggestions in this House for improving the health care of athletes. We have settled this over the past year through our sponsors so that all our Olympics have secured free top health care through the "Sun" Polyclinic and that part is solved in the best possible way within Croatian conditions. The specific section refers to professional work in sport. I must inform you, and it is visible from the report too, that over 50 of the best Croatian coaches, coaches of all Croatian juniors, senior selections are funded by the Croatian Olympic Committee programme so that we can say that with the exception of Mr. Slaven Bilić, everyone else is included in the Croatian Olympic Committee programme. Slaven, fortunately for him it is not necessary because the Croatian Football Federation has sufficient financial resources to ensure it itself. As far as the financial side is concerned, you can see that the whole philosophy is based on increasing its own income and keeping expenditures under control. In the report you will see one thing that is related to the revenue side, which refers to the financing of the current reserve Olympic Games. Since the beginning of the Croatian state, therefore, since Barcelona, all the Olympic games have always been financed from the current reserve so that there is no exception and so remains until today. As for the control of the spending of these funds, we have five degrees of control. We have our internal control, the Supervisory Board, the State Audit, the Commercial Audit and Control by the Budgetary Office of the Ministry of Finance. You've got all these reports in the report and they're all undetected. In the past year, the Croatian Olympic Committee, as the only European Olympic Committee, has kept ISO 9001, therefore, a norm guaranteeing that operations are conducted in accordance with the highest standards. So much for the opening part. I thank you all. There are many people among you who have helped Croatian sports as part of the system in the past year. I thank you all and believe that our athletes and athletes will return in the best way in Beijing. Thank you very much. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9184	Thank you, Mr. Zlatko Mateshi. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9185	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, secretary. Allow me a few words on behalf of the SDP club. We in the SDP estimate that this report is very correct. The me sitting here for several years seems to be even more detailed in the financial section than those reports that have been in the past years. The report really shows that the Croatian Olympic Committee performs its tasks in the development of top sports in Croatia, in accordance with the law and other documents. We from the SDP would particularly like prominent programmes, which in view of the finances of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which are not negligible and which may in some way need to gain greater focus in the future, or more support in the functioning of the Olympic Committee, although this does not fall within the primary tasks of the Croatian Olympic Committee. So, the programmes to encourage sports in local communities or programmes in the field of sport of children and young people, and I am pleased that, as President Matesha said at the introduction, those suggestions that have been here in the debates of the Assembly over the past few years have been in some way implemented and that these programmes are also experiencing their achievement. I am personally pleased that a new development programme has been put here, a development programme to support athletes of younger age categories because it was really quite sad five or more years ago to read these Olympic Committee reports that applied almost exclusively to senior categories and top athletes. As for the financial part of the report, we really welcome activities to increase the Croatian Olympic Committee's own revenue, or to attract sponsors, since these names that are sponsors are mostly the names of top athletes and athletes who make medals in these major competitions, and I think that somewhere in the budget, the strategic goal of the Croatian Olympic Committee should be to attract as many sponsors as possible with marketing activities, and that this part of the public money from the budget as from... funding in some way remains more for amateur recreational sport and other competitive sport that belongs to these neo-Olympic sports and that in some way in the future this superb sport becomes and self-sustainable, it is still quite in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But already in some major sports, that is the case. I think somewhere perhaps as a strategic goal of action on the Olympic Committee it should be that this top sport becomes simply self-sustainable and that this money is from the budget, from... the funds remain more available for these sports which are either less attractive or which simply do not have the power to attract sponsors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we from the SDP are particularly pleased that it is somewhere and President Mateša pointed out in his opening statement and that it is going somewhere, although it seems to me to be quite a distant future. The financial part of the report shows a loss in relation to expenditure and revenue. We understand him in some ways, but we are also concerned because he is not negligible, he is almost a sixth of the total budget and I know that it is relatively difficult to plan financial resources since he does not know exactly what amount he will be especially from... The means but that somewhere you need to work to make such great discretions repeat in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We from the SDP welcome the health care programmes of athletes carried out by the Olympic Committee. However, since the programme applies only to some top athletes who participate in the Olympic Committee programmes, the issue remains a health care issue, prevention and health care of injured athletes especially in the local environments, especially small local environments where there are most often no professional health professionals and they are not even in clubs and, in particular, not only for small local communities but also for so-called "local environments". Little sports. And of course, again, there is a problem that has not been solved by the new Sport Act and even touched even though we in the SDP have proposed that the health care of athletes be installed in the entire health system. We welcome somewhere the fact that professional associations have introduced a new specialization of sports medicine as a joint specialization of working and sports medicine. However, only the opening of infrastructures, sports hospitals say especially in smaller environments, local environments are something to still work on. The results achieved by our athletes and athletes speak, perhaps from Croatia, from our position we are not active to tell about the classic success of Croatian athletes that we are used to, although there are certain problems that we should underline. It is known that athletes from Olympic sports receive awards from the state budget for the medals achieved, and not only do they get them but their entire logistics team, so coaches and medical and technical staff. However, we would like to reiterate that in other sports, therefore, non-Olympic sports athletes who win gold medals at world championships don't even get any formal affirmation for their work in the sense that at least some state official or government accepts them and that we don't even talk about money. Somewhere, we think that gold was won at the World Cup simply medals of gold glow which deserves the same kind of reward by the state budget, whether it's Olympic or non-Olympic sports. When we talk about this difference, it is also known that most Olympic sports have excellent media follow-up and, in some cases, quite good financial support through sponsorship and advertising contracts, so the question is whether all these revenues are really necessary and these additional rewards, more so when they are in some way not even. In this respect, the Croatian Olympic Committee may need to take a more active role in the affirmation of athletes who, although I say, may not primarily fall under their responsibilities, although it is only in non-Olympic sports to help them in public affirmation on one hand, but in some way for a fundamental purpose to ensure better and working conditions through additional funds from the sponsors themselves. This report shows that sports on islands is very attractive and interesting for young people who do not have other opportunities for free activities, especially in winter months. However, since the development of sport on islands in the state budget is provided for truly symbolic funds of 150 thousand kunas, it is in some way an interest to practice sports, which is not only an interest in sports but also an interest in health and to spend the free time of young people on islands almost declarative nature. In that sense, this part of the support coming from the Olympic Committee is really welcome, although it is really about the minimum resources. As for coaching engagements, we should consider, in our opinion, that more rigorous controls of trained trainers, their qualifications as well as the results achieved, and we primarily think that this period of five years is somewhat shortened because it is indeed too long a period of time to do irreparable damage in the event of their incompetence. On the contrary, President Mateš pointed out in the opening statement where some coaches of national selection volunteers get a good part of them to receive some financial support from the Olympic Committee. However, somewhere I think it is not about negligible amounts, so that they can be halved in some cases so that coaches and male and female selections can be financed. We also have negative examples. The bad example of this is from bowling which is a neo-Olympic sport, so perhaps quite well in this radical situation paints. The Croatian Olympic bowling board finances or co-finances only one coach and then the Croatian bowling alliance appointed one man to be the leader of all selections and at all ages, which then naturally given the scope of the job, it can neither carry out its work quality nor control all selections at all. His assistants are fully volunteers. The person also does not have any professional qualifications but is a member of the academy. Of course, such results were also shown at the last world championship where seniors fell out in the first round, seniors fell out in second, cadets were under 10th place and so on. So, when talking about this co-financing of coaches, perhaps on the one hand, there may be more control, and on the other hand, these funds may be cut in half and finance equal to both male and female selections. Of course, the consequence of this case is that it simply happened to no one, the man is still there coaching all the coaches. And I don't think, in some way, by funding the Olympic Committee can support such a practice, I repeat, even though it's a small and Olympic sport, it's still a sport where we've had really great results. The chapter on legal matters states that actions are being carried out to prepare regulations that would legally benefit Olympic denominations holders from a permanent monthly fee. We would simply, with the support of course of such an attitude, want to warn that this should actually be quite cautious because it should not happen that 10 or 15 thousand kunas receive, for example, 30-year-old athletes or athletes, professionals whose annual revenues are still millions of euros, and otherwise some multiple world champions in neo-Olympic sports do not have the right to even one-time fees. So, somewhere around here, there's a balance like that. ... In addition to this debate, only one sentence concerning the separation from the state budget in general for sport, i.e. for the public needs programme in sport, the original funds fell from 30 million kuna in the state budget as allocated from 99 to around 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last 2007 to 26 million kuna in rebalancing, it was reduced by another 2 million, although it really had nothing to do with the Olympic Committee. I think that somewhere in this debate, as well as the MPs and the MPs, we need to declassify, not only declassify, but also testify that if we want to expand the base from which tomorrow we will generate top athletes and top athletes who will then be taken care of by the Olympic Committee. We really need to strengthen the funding specifically for recreational, for school, for November sport. Because we actually have a very small number of young children, which is, somewhere else we're talking about. But in particular, few adults are involved in any form of physical exercise. Or some recreational or competitive sport which, of course, has health implications and I say in some way in terms of the base for top athletes. Here is the conclusion, at the very end, along with our congratulations to all our athletes and athletes who won medals last year, with good wishes of course to succeed at the Olympic Games in Beijing and these big competitions that follow us next year, we from the SDP Club will support this Report. I repeat it is concrete, in some details it is more financial and detailed than in recent years. Our representatives and MPs will point out some of the details of this report itself in individual discussions. And just in some way, I repeat, perhaps the key message of the SDP Club, somewhere it is our desire that this top sport, which is interesting to the media, should, in some way, be developed to make it self-sustainable, self-financed and yet this small and limited funds that we extract from the state budget, or from... Still remain for the development of recreational sport, sports exercise, adults, purely from the difference and prevention of health, as well as the expansion of the base and the increase of the number of people in Croatia who are engaged in sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9186	Thank you. It's the club IDSP and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9187	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Croatia has the chance of never returning from an Olympics with an entire series of medals. And I dare say the golden ones. In both handballs and water polo and jumping up, and also swimming in both women's and men's categories, rowing, martial arts, and even now we've been following great successes on horseback with grips. It is clear that so much of the Olympic Committee in this Olympic year should be helped, what Parliament, what the Government should do, perhaps should be directed after today's vote or adopted one conclusion that the loss of the Croatian Olympic Committee to reach, if I am not deceived by 24 million kunas in some way, is being analyzed. When we look at this table on page three, you almost can't believe it. So, this is about the placements of Croatian athletes from 1 to 3 places in major international competitions in 2007. So we've adopted 87 gold medals, we've won 113 silver medals, we've won or in some way won 93 bronze medals on behalf of this country. In total, it means 293 medals. Croatia has won medals and, in the right sense, the word power. And now who says we're gone, who's lying, right? Four and a half million inhabitants, and only in 2007 were won by boys and girls, on behalf of this country 293 medals. Understandably, it is necessary to welcome every good result, including those who have not returned with the medal, who have been to the world or European summit, it is not easy. They know best by themselves, how much denial, how much pain, how much money and their own and their parents have to put into it. These results I've read are reason enough to adopt this report. It's clear, as my predecessor from the SDP Club said, that young people should be monitored. But perhaps more should be discussed in this case, for example, the budget for an ongoing year, so that more resources can be allocated to the building of halls, schools, or other such institutions. Clearly, too should paralympics be followed, but I don't owe them now. I want to make it clear to the Croatian Olympic Committee a lot of marketing success and that the budget of the Republic of Croatia also follows them in the future. The budget of the Republic of Croatia and is accompanied by the Croatian Olympic Committee. It's more or less all said on page 42. 114 million 694 thousand revenues were made. The question arises as to why, for example, these regular State budget funds have been reduced by 2 million kuna. All right, come on, that's compensated with two million kunas from games of chance. But let's let it go now. What am I saying? There are some Olympics, there are some athletes who owe this country, and today they are in extremely difficult financial conditions or in a very difficult financial situation. I think these people should be helped in some way. And as we've introduced, if I'm not mistaken, privileged pensions for medal winners here should, for example, be followed by the Croatian Olympic Committee by those athletes because if this goes from the budget in the future, who knows how they'll react, to be cynical, unions? What exactly is this about? I think we should form a foundation to help athletes who are in such a material grip or situation. Some of them may have won medals, some won great results, and they did not win medals, so they are not in that category of privileged pensions. They gave a lot to Croatia. They couldn't sell for a few million euros, sell under quotes. Not all of us are finally aware of the Blues, and perhaps they gave the Croatian sport far more than the Modric I clearly wish for the best possible performance in Austria for the Croatian team, and then a great success in England because his success will in some way be the success of Croatian sport. Here's what might be the only observation the IDS Club has on this report. Let's think about whether it's possible in this country to form a foundation to help athletes and to be followed in some way by sponsors, but also by state bodies. The athletes who assigned each and every one of us individually, the country, must not be forgotten. What else do you say? Let the normal Croatian Olympic Committee be happy in Beijing. We'll probably meet back here by Vancouver. Try Mr. President to influence us and Janica coming back to Vancouver, right? It could be a second grudge to this report. But just another small distinction from Mrs Lugaric's statement. It's clear there's a professional sport to follow. Without professional sport, without good results in certain disciplines there is neither recreational nor amateur sport. Without the good successes they achieve, let's say our swimmers won't be more engaged in these swimming disciplines. Without great success, I don't know, Vlasicka jumps into heights or now guys who perform around the world on a horse on a hook won't be more successful at gathering girls and boys in those amateur, I don't know, athletic disciplines. A professional sport should also be monitored in a better way and amateur sports should be monitored. Why professional sport? Because without full commitment to this, to some discipline, without 24 hours of denial, without giving up their parents who in some way dare to tell the real victims at the beginning and these girls and these young men, we let them go later when they achieve results like one Ivanisevic or Blanca Vlasic or I don't know Janica Kostelic, but at first your parents are literally victims of these young men and girls and I hold so much to help them too. We can also talk here about sports over sports, so to speak, about football, but as far as I know from this report, it is not followed by the Croatian Olympic Committee. So sport should also be monitored in that amateur part of both the professional part and the state and local self-government and the Croatian Olympic Committee, and the sponsors will appear clearly later but generally they only follow the best. So much when we know that the huge engagement of companies in the dominant ownership of the Croatian state may be more natural that Croatian mails that themselves have huge, huge problems, and the loss that, why not say so, are following these disciplines that are not so marketingly attractive and others that they may not be left to some other sponsors whose companies are trying to prove themselves on the market anyway. I want to believe, and I know that Mr. Mateša also has an impact on the DDR that the future and this concert will follow in a significant amount of the Croatian Olympic Committee where, in one word, if I am not mistaken, he is not present. The report's great for me. Our athletes' successes are fantastic. The expectations of all of us athletes now in Austria, Beijing, Vancouver are almost planetary. There is nothing left for me but, indeed, with full satisfaction to raise hands for one such report and wish the Croatian Olympic Committee and then to each citizen, especially athletes, to return from the next big competition with at least so many or more medals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9188	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. President of the Olympic Committee, Zlatko Mateša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9189	I apologize, Mr. President. I've made an oversight. By listening to the distinguished representative and MPs in this, the previous part, I forgot to explain so-called. a loss that is only financial. Look at page 42. There's no need for anyone to cover it. We've covered it ourselves from our means of rational behavior over the past two years. This is therefore not the case, except that it has to be financially presented is not a real problem and no programme has therefore been implemented with a smaller part than was provided for in the budget. So we accumulated some funds by rational action over the past two years, and now we've spent them on it so that in a financial sense this loss doesn't have to be remedied. He's already covered. And as for the Foundation of the Foundation, it was founded. At the head of the Foundation, the president of the Foundation is Mr. Zvonimir Boban and she has already begun to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9190	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9191	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Secretary-General, esteemed fellow MPs. Let me at the beginning, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, express satisfaction with the quality of this report, which confirms the unanimous support that the report received in the debate on the parent board, but I am also very pleased that my colleague Lugarić and colleague Kajin spoke very highly of not only the Croatian Olympic Committee report, the role of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but also the successes of sports, athletes and the importance of sport. I will take advantage of this opportunity and especially thank you for the financial but other assistance that is here and the alliance that I am headed for, but also sports at all, athletes who have received both from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, as well as from our roof institution of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Why am I stressing this in the introduction? So I think water polo, for example, is the most beautiful example of how the system organisation and the assistance in providing financial resources affect the overall result in some sport and how little it takes for us Croats to be the best in the world. I want once again because of the public, because of us, because of sports and athletes, because of young people, to point out that sport is too big and too important social activity and the team is the role of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is bigger and more significant in view of everything that is in the jurisdiction of our roof institutions and sports in Croatia. At the beginning and on this occasion, I will commend as our president of the Olympic Committee has stated the introduction of ISO 9001 standards to improve the management system, which allows for even more quality promotion and development of sports in Croatia. Of course it is commendable from the report we have heard and a programme to encourage local sport, including joint programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee and local sports communities, as well as programmes from sports, children and youth, and special programmes to promote the development of sports at local level. In this segment, I would particularly like to highlight the promotion of sport in war-devasted areas, and especially in Knin and Vukovar, as well as the promotion of development of sport on islands, of course in the context of financial opportunities. I also think that one of the most important projects should be praised in particular, and it is about the education of coaches of all adult categories, where national sports alliances are also enabled to raise the level of expertise and training skills of the coaching staff, which is a key prerequisite not only for achieving high or high-end sports results but perhaps even more, today even more necessary, and this is a proper education and some basis of life for young people who are increasingly organised in sport. To this end, twenty seminars, courses and expert meetings were organised. Also, progress has been made as part of the project in the segment of education of judges of the international category. Of course, also in cooperation with national sports alliances. What is a particularly sensitive segment, which requires continuous improvement if we want to step up to the world is health care from a flight attendant who is rarely dependent on not only the result of athletes but also the quality of life after the end of a sports career, and sometimes the lives of athletes themselves. We had a recent example of our swimmer Mark Strahija who after the problem is now going to start with the competitions. The Croatian Olympic Committee, as well as national sports alliances, pay particular attention to the health care of athletes, but also to the prevention that is manifested through constant examinations in the highest quality polyclinics but also through the care of nutrition, vitaminisation, the purchase of medicines etc. Also, one of the praises of valuable projects of which no particular importance should be mentioned is the project " after career career". In fact, one of the main problems that arises in sport, and especially in top sports, is the continuation of the lives of these young people who, because of their commitment and involvement in sports, rarely neglect education and, after completing their sports careers, have neither the opportunity to include myself in the supposed normal life course. I am proud to come from a sport that has a great tradition of taking care of young people in this segment of education with top sports, where even in the names of clubs we have academic adjectives. A few of the top water polo players, for example, did not finish some of the colleges and of course it was the best, easiest way to socialize athletes after active play. Let me just point out that I refer to my colleague Cain. Unfortunately, there are no privileged sportsmen's pensions or anything like that. There is an initiative and there is still the initiative of the Croatian Olympic Club with this foundation, which was founded to provide for the most successful Croatian athletes, meaning those who won Olympic and world gold and silver medals, with a special government regulation to provide life-long benefits to those athletes, where there were considerable criticism after last year's such initiative. In my opinion, primarily for lack of information, since top athletes are still seen through the prism of literally a few materially situated athletes from the same sports. However, the truth is that one large number of athletes as Mr. Cain stressed that the Olympic winners and world champions after a career at the edge of existence and that similar to in the vast majority of other countries it is necessary, I would even say our obligation to enable these people to live a normal life after the end of a sports career, after playing especially with all those successes they have achieved in sports. However, there are also a number of positive effects, and such possible decisions, for example, would be the best possible motive except, of course, the sport motive that must be primary. But the motive for creating so much of the aforementioned cult of the team, means one motive for young people who come to do their work and pawning, do everything to get up to the victory stand one day. At the end of this presentation, I left the financing of the Croatian Olympic Committee's income and expenditure, i.e. Croatian sport, regardless of the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee, is growing from year to year, thanks most to the revenues from gambling. I believe that this revenue should certainly be significantly increased in the future so that the Croatian Olympic Committee can participate in the overall needs of each national alliance in a much greater part. Of course, that's where I mean top-notch sports, but also this sport of young, recreational, etc. Of course, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should also have its place. Namely, I'm going to set an example of my alliance, where of course I know the situation firsthand. The Croatian Olympic Committee therefore covers around 30% of the total needs, which in some other circumstances would be far too small for all that is needed for the normal and quality functioning of the alliance. From 5 selections of younger age categories of which two perform in European world competitions, to all that is needed in order for the best selection to be competitive with other world's best teams. For example, the Greek, Italian, or here are the Serbian water polo alliances through the donation of their Olympic committees about five times more funds than we do. Until recently, that difference was even 10 times. As much as we are able to make up for this difference today with sponsors and donations, it is very difficult to expect that we will be able to function in the future. What I would particularly like to emphasise, which I think is important that the Croatian Olympic Committee, from the existing financial resources from what it provides, manages to pull out the maximum and I will use Mr. Cain to make the list of Croatian athletes' successes magnificent for every praise. My sincere congratulations to the Croatian Olympic Committee on these results and on the effort. I don't think we should talk at all about our prides, our whole nation's entanglements, and not the rare happiness of the success of our individuals and our national alliances in major competitions as they perform under the national flag, and because of their success, almost half of the world listens to our anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the importance of the Olympic movement in the world, it is enough to point out that he has more members in his ranks than the United Nations, and very often the influence is close, almost the same. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report with the desire to make these upcoming Olympic games more successful than ever before and by the number of participants and by the results we will achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9192	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9193	Dear President, gentlemen of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to show my support for the Croatian Olympic Committee report as well as for support for the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee. In this report as well as those discussed in previous years, it is evident that the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing well, that the needs of athletes and national alliances are being given more and more attention and that the overall thinking of sports within the Croatian Olympic Committee as a roof body is being placed on a much higher level, a level that thinks about the future. Finally, unlike some previous times, the Croatian Olympic Committee is no longer serving as an athlete for ordinary money distribution and is not its own purpose. The most important fact that has contributed to this is that several years ago there has been a change in the Croatian Olympic Committee and a new Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee has been elected, which has certainly contributed to better quality relations within the Croatian Olympic Committee. The new role of the Croatian Olympic Committee has changed the environment in which the Olympic family in Croatia operates, but all this would not have been enough if the arrival of new people had not taken place in the Croatian Olympic Committee in a different, better and better way. Today, the National Sports Union also plays an important role, respects their proposals, greater attention is given to sports promotion programmes in local communities, sportsmen status issues, youth sport, sports recreation and sports for all, health protection of athletes, protection from doping and what has been difficult in previous structures, increasing its own resources from the Croatian Olympic Committee, funds achieved from marketing activities. Of course, Croatian athletes and the successes they achieve are tempting to various sponsors, but it is irrefutable that the creation of the Croatian Olympic Committee as a strong and successful, and above all responsible sports body in the Republic of Croatia, with which economic operators can build their own image, is also responsible for connecting sports and athletes with their marketing activities. The funds needed for national sport alliances are also increased and, more importantly, necessary resources are provided in time, paid within deadlines, which is extremely important to the alliances for timely preparation and implementation of plans. All this, when quality work is done and people with knowledge, education and expertise are accepted, results in better results and athletes, a lot of medals and good placements in the world's biggest and European competitions. What we still need to worry about is not directly related to the Croatian Olympic Committee, but to the functioning of the current government, their thinking of sports. In fact, even when the Law on Sports was passed, it was evident that there was no desire to build transparent, clear and unequivocal criteria of sport financing equal for all. But from numerous examples, we see where all this is going, so we are witnessing various affairs about building or not building stadiums and halls, about forgiving or not forgiving debts, in the same competitions we have associations of citizens and potential stock companies, the transfer of players without any single kuna of taxes coming into the state budget, there are a lot of negative examples which clearly and unequivocally tell us that we all have to be more committed to making the situation better and that's the basic task of this, but also every other government. Sports and athletes are investment in the future, the best promotion of Croatia and its citizens. It is not proven to support sports in athletes only by paying prizes on winning medals and painting with winners. But, as I mentioned earlier, this is a question that does not fall under discussion about the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but a much wider issue, the issue of strategic thinking of the future, which this government has yet to prove to know. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party Club, here is the final support for the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2007 with the desire to look forward to the great successes of Croatian athletes this Olympic year and to continue to fight together for their better quality status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9194	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9195	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President and Secretary of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, in a series of commendations and expressed views in front of our clubs, support positions and we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party support this programme and financial report because we believe that in a professional and meaningful way it covered the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and analysed the achievements and activities in Croatian sport in detail. The report confirms that the Croatian Olympic Committee has achieved full responsibility for the development of top sports in the Republic of Croatia, and this is also evident from the results of sports re-exposures of 293 medals at world and European KUPs and European and world championships. In particular, we point to the successful work of the Croatian Olympic Committee in promoting the Olympic principle and caring for talented athletes. The development projects in the field of sport are a particularly important chapter and a kind of newspaper in the field of sport, and we are particularly emphasising the new programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee prepared for the local level. A large number of requests arrived from local level, and it is evident from the report that 78 have arrived for co-financing of the local sports community programme, talks about the state of sport at local level, but also about the opportunities of local and regional communities, i.e. the difficulties faced by the local community in funding certain sports programmes, but also about the Croatian Olympic Committee, which shows understanding for programmes and sporting events at local level despite a visible lack of funding. Joyful understanding and secure support for sports support, and in particular the understanding shown for children's and youth sports programmes. That the future of Croatian sport is safe is visible from the realization of the support programme for athletes of younger age categories. Investment in younger people is a guarantee for long-term successful action and good sports results in international competitions. The number of medals won justifies the funds invested and ensures the continued work of young and talented athletes. In particular, we point out the understanding shown for individual sports that have often been publicly neglected or under-attractive, and thus inaccessible to our public. Our citizens have no knowledge of the successes of athletes in these individual sports. We stress the importance of one of the most professional sports according to the number of medals won in the Republic of Croatia, which is shooting. As the first organised sport in the Republic of Croatia, the shooting started in 1784, and next year in Osijek we will mark 225 years of shooting sport in the Republic of Croatia. The shooters won over 180 medals from the independence of the Republic of Croatia to the present day, and had it not been for the understanding of the Croatian Olympic Committee, these results would not have been achieved. We remind and use this opportunity to point out the difficulties that shooting is facing, and one of the main reasons is the Arms Act, which greatly restricts the activity and work of top shooters, and to some extent increases the financial costs of shooting associations, and thus the Croatian Shooting Union. Despite all the difficulties, the results were not left behind thanks to the understanding shown by the Croatian Olympic Committee. Shooters and competitors believe and hope for further cooperation and support from the Croatian Olympic Committee to this sport, which is particularly important in the defence system which has made a major contribution to the defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia. A major contribution to the programme of training of sports workers, judges and coaches has also been made by the Olympic Academy to ensure professional training and education of sports workers who successfully transfer their knowledge to younger athletes. A large number of participants are also visible, over 340 of them in 12 sports that show an interest in training and education from the field of educational programme for the needs of the Croatian military, resulting in other structures of Croatian society showing a certain understanding and giving some importance to sport. Large sports have the possibility of self-financing or, by the alleged signs, I mean "big" or they don't need more support, financial support for regular work and action. I therefore believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee and its bodies will show even more understanding and support individual sports, because according to the number of medals won, these individual sports deserve it. I also support a new development programme whose users are already proven athletes on an international stage that certainly conveys the name and will carry the name of the Republic of Croatia across Europe and around the world. The financial part of the report shows the negative financial result, which is primarily due to the unsecured planned resources from the current stock of the state budget, but we point to the management of available financial resources from which the application of the principle of good and hardworking master with the spending and distribution of available funds is visible. It is observed that the wishes and needs are increasingly greater than possibilities, but the application of principles, fairness and evaluations to the winning results further motivates and encourages stronger engagement in a large number of sports national alliances. The report can also read successful action from all bodies of the Croatian Olympic Committee in accordance with the legal rules, which is also an additional reason for the Croatian Peasant Party's Club to support this programme report by the Croatian Olympic Committee. In the end, let me congratulate on the successes and actions of the Croatian Olympic Committee on behalf of the HSS club and of course on the Croatian athletes at the Olympic Games as well as on all international competitions we want a lot of success and victory for all planned medals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9196	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9197	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President of the Olympic Committee, first of all, many congratulations on the many successes our athletes have gathered and stimulated, achieved. But so the report is talking about it, and I think he's great, and I agree with my predecessors who praised you, so I also praise you and congratulate you. I will, of course, accept it with two, three notes or maybe a few suggestions that I should consider. Whenever it comes to sports, I can't resist the urge not to talk about the so-called. the mass sport or the whole series of networks, the amateur sport and whatever it is not in your primary activity, it seems to me that because of its reputation as well as because of its successes, but because of the very logic of things, it belongs to one good part and to what the Olympic Committee is dealing with. It seems to me that, unlike the thin layer of competitive and top-notch sport, Croatia is terribly lacking in many organizations and systemically numerous amateur and competitive, especially recreational sports where we can hardly deal with it except in some associations and of course on our own cost. So sometimes I get the impression, without any malignancy, that Olympic sport or competitive, top-notch sport without its own foundation, as the people would call it, a charm in heaven or on earth. Because in a whole series of countries that I have managed to collect some of the top-of-the-line sport, therefore, it follows as a selection from mass sports activities. We're kind of out of it. According to data from, in part 2005, part of 2006, Scandinavian countries have 80th, and sometimes more than one percent of the population involved in various sports activities, hence organised, some developed countries 60th, sometimes 70th, and Croatia only 10th. I'd like to ask Mrs. Representative not to disturb the attention of my addressees. Thank you very much. Excuse me. So, of course, to praise the whole series of activities that the Olympic Academy is taking, sports care of young people. However, in the sport care of young people, I find it crucial to encourage school and student sports, so an organized promotion of school and student sports that could be the very basis on which to grow then a top-notch sport. School and student sports, which seems to me to be currently or systemically neglected and which has significantly greater potential, because it seems to me that school sports infrastructure may be a infrastructure for sports in the evening, of course, for hours of local population to encourage a whole series of activities, amateur, recreational and competitive. School sport can be a whole system for gathering, for competing, for competing, but also for co-existence, for co-operation, etc., etc. So he could have a whole series of benefits. It could also be organised at local level, at regional level, at national level, etc., etc. I think that the top sport regardless of what actually promotes Croatia and its affirmation in the world is something that can be a role model for others, so those who want to play sports. But it seems to me that it is crucial that the part of the program that predends again includes the largest number of people, which has been supported in the last ten years and which stimulates a whole series of international organisations, including the World Health Organization, and I find the slogan excellent: "Move to Health". In a sitting civilization, our movements are crucial and, therefore, if I could say debauchery of sports, it would be significant and would bring a whole series of benefits. Mr. President of the Olympic Committee, I congratulate you once again, and I want you and the athletes who will take you to Beijing a lot of success. Of course it's important to participate, but it's important to win here and there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9198	Thank you. Dear representative Nadica you're eating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9199	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, secretaries, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Since my predecessors have mostly talked about the programming part of this report of yours, I will limit my debate to that financial part. From the financial report, we read that in 2007, there was a poor business year, since it was concluded, according to the report's composer, by a negative financial result i.e. with a loss of 23 million kuna. Here I will say that it would be good, since the Croatian Olympic Committee is a non-profit organisation and manages non-profit accounting, so that it also uses adequate legal terminology in reporting, i.e. it is said that there is a lack of income over expenditure, i.e. in the amount of 23 million kuna. In 2007, there were also certain problems with the maintenance of liquidity, i.e. the settlement of the commitments made. Individence and loss go hand in hand, i.e. indifference is the predecessor of the loss, which is precisely the case of the Croatian Olympic Committee and confirms. Fortunately, as President Mateš said in his address, the largest part of this deficit, 19 and a half million kunas are covered by surplus revenues transferred from previous years, while the rest of the 3 and a half million kuna will be covered in 2008 by current revenues. The composer of this report says that the liquidity problems that ultimately resulted in a lack of revenue over expenditure, conditioned by the subsidisation of revenue from the current reserve of the state budget planned in the amount of 10 million kuna, and realised in the amount of negligible 50 thousand kuna. In fact, the vast majority of the total revenue, and in 2007, it was 99 million or 86% of the Croatian Olympic Committee is derived from the state budget, while the remaining 15 million or 13% of total income account for revenues from marketing activities, revenues from Olympic solidarity, and other revenues. Of course, the absence of state support to the Croatian Olympic Committee in the Pre-Olympic year is a little difficult to understand. Namely, these funds were intended for the preparation of Croatian athletes for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. However, regardless of the lack of funds from the current budget reserve, it should be said that the emergence of such a large income deficit is somewhat surprising, since the revenues from gambling are at the same time the largest item in the financing of the Croatian Olympic Committee programme, increased compared to 2006 by as much as €26 million, amounting to a high of 75 million, which is two-thirds of the total revenue in 2007. Despite such a high increase, these revenues were not enough to cover all the expenditures made, so that part of the liability for the lack shown was still borne by the Croatian Olympic Committee because it obviously did not bring the dynamics of spending with the revenues achieved or to be a little more picturesque, it extended a little bit more than could be covered. All in all, as the rapporteur himself assessed, the planned budget for 2007 was a developmental one. The basis for such an assessment is found in the fact that for the development programmes of national alliances, as well as for development programmes at local level, 24 million kunas are spent, representing more than 17% of total resources available. In the end, I have to notice that this report would be complete if he had been accompanied by a report from the State Audit Office. To the truth, an integral part of the report is the short finding of a commercial audit and the Ministry of Finance carried out budgetary supervision but only for transfers of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So, without the State Audit findings, we don't have a full assessment of the legal and dedicated spending of budgets in 2007. However, I do not wish to say that I doubt the illegal spending of funds, but I would like to say that in the last report of the audit which was made for 2004 and which was, by the way, a conditional remark which unfortunately was not respected by the Croatian Olympic Committee in 2007 and which is actually my basic remark on this report. This report, too, shows that spending on funds has been shown only by programme activities or has no indication according to the calculation plan for non-profit organisations, so that there is no actual visibility of spending on basic types of costs and is not unfortunately possible to compare the expenditure incurred in business books with the planned expenditure. In addition, there is no information on the assets and sources of funds. The last inventory was made with 31.12.2006. We don't know if it was made since 2007, although the law requires it to be done every year. If we had information about the property, for example today, it might be a little clearer to us whether claims from the sale of apartments on which the Croatian Olympic Committee had a tenant right and which were shown in advance to the audit report, so for 2004 totalling 882 thousand kuna. I therefore propose that the future annual report also show property data in order to meet the financial reporting standard. The Croatian Olympic Committee is not a local Association of Majorets with due respect to all associations, and indeed it should not allow such sports dictionaries to tell amateur failures to the team more clearly taken a number of measures as President Mateša told us from setting up internal control to introducing a quality management system to make his business as transparent as possible. Of course we are very happy with the results of our athletes but Croatian citizens as financiers have the right to full insight into the price of these results and successes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9200	Thank you. Honorable representative Goran Maras. He's gone. Representative of the Olympic Committee, Reverend Mateš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9201	Mr. Vice President, here I think this debate deserves a few answers. It was the State Audit after 2004, and she didn't find any of what you said. It hasn't even been for 2007. Therefore, the Croatian Olympic Committee will be part of the State Audit report as well as every year as all other beneficiaries of the budget. As for the inventory part. The inventory is, of course, done every year, worked for 2007, and was adopted by the council. As regards the methodology for planning and calculating non-profit organisations, there is even one dispute between people who consider it professionally, so how these financial results should be conducted. We do it the way other Olympic committees in Europe do, so the same methodology, which is, if the State Audit is standing on the watch that it should change, we will be very happy to change it. As far as these other parts are concerned, I think I can say that the fact that this is also stated in the report, that all the Olympic games have been funded since the beginning of the Croatian state from current reserves and the absence of these revenues is also normal in view of the process of establishing the government and the post-election period in the past year. It'll probably make up for this year, and I don't think that's gonna be a special problem. Of course, this resulted in the need to redistribute previously accumulated funds for current programmes in 2007. Otherwise, as you can see from the Athens report that you have the impression of the project itself performance in Athens cost about 20 million kuna, in Beijing there will be, of course, much more, given the number of athletes and the higher logistics costs in terms of distance, and that is about the amount that about 30 million kuna will cost Croatian athletes and athletes in Beijing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9202	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Vedran Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9203	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Secretary, fellow MPs. Here, it is an extraordinary honor to be able to support this 2007 programme's financial report to the Croatian Olympic Committee. Namely, this is one of the topics where all clubs and I believe all representatives agree because Croatian sport and the Croatian Olympic Committee is the roof organisation of the entire Croatian sport is the one foundation and one promotion, the best promotion and the Croatian state because if we remember the Croatian state has not yet been internationally recognised and the Croatian Olympic Committee has managed to contribute to Croatia's performance at those winter Olympic games. As far as the Croatian Olympic Committee is concerned, as a roof organization, we see through these programmes because it was mentioned earlier in the debate that Croatian sport has no base. However, when we see through these programmes how many Croatian sports alliances participate and this is the number of 79 national sports alliances participating in the Croatian Olympic Committee programme. If we only took if by one Croatian National Sports Federation a thousand, then we see how big a figure it is. So we can freely say that Croatian sport has a growing base year after year, and this is seen by the increasing results, which are being achieved on the international agenda. Here, so we see in the report that only in this past 2007 has it been won in the international competitions of 87 gold medals, 113 silver and 93 bronze medals. It's a remarkable success. However, hundreds should also be commended, including thousands of amateurs who participate in all these sports clubs and sports alliances, because without their contribution, these results would be much less. We see that 259 athletes receive benefits from the Croatian Olympic Committee programme that are very necessary for their preparation, not just for the Olympic Games, this year of the Olympic Games. And I believe that these support is even more important, but every year the Croatian Olympic Committee gives these funds because these young top athletes participate in both European and global competitions. Surely the Croatian Olympic Committee has a great task of caring for the overall Croatian sport, and one special chapter, here is where it has been trying for many years to finally edit this Olympic centre, I think that all together we should give support when the country's budget is voted to finally find the funds for this Olympic Centre. Because I believe that when that centre on Beolasica is equipped, and not only that centre, more centres should be established, so that the results of Croatian athletes will be even better. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, here we see that from year to year of these successes, we see that the Government with its resources also gives recognition to these young athletes and clubs after these numerous medals won at the World and European Championships, the Government with its resources gives a single fee that is beyond these budgetary resources of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Here, once again, I would like to thank the Croatian Olympic Committee for this support it also gives to Croatian athletes, because sport is one branch that gives the fastest promotion of the Croatian state. And why is that? Because these results are quantifiable, they are directly measurable and can always be estimated and the effort these athletes make over the years is always measurable. And I believe that this report has the full support of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9204	Thank you. I shall first inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 10 hours and 40 minutes. And we have one replica, the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9205	Thank you, Your Honor. I will replicate to you in part of the amount of good sports results and where we can agree definitely that this should be encouraged and that this report is one of the contributions to this. However, if we really want to have as many quantitatively spoken medals as possible, if we really want to have as many better sports results as possible, then we should also ask ourselves, and here I will sublime that debate we had on boards, and on the trail of Professor Flege, how many people, which number of people in Croatia are engaged in sports? So, the data from professors at the Faculty of Kinesiology that the 91st percent in Croatia was 7%, now rose to 12.5% and in some Nordic and developed countries we heard 70 to 80%. And there's only room for more medals. It's certain that if seven times as many people are involved in sports, we won't have seven times as many medals, but we'll have more medals anyway. And on the basis of that, when you were talking about the role of government, I would agree that the role of government is in that part and responsible for the Croatian School Sports Alliance. In 94 he was founded, so for a time he was temporarily suspended, so he was re-founded. However, as long as this alliance does not find out, and this should be spoken here today, and it is good to have a debate on this, but it should continue to be discussed for every debate on sports, as long as the alliance does not find sufficient financial resources for hiring professional staff to mean capacity for training of athletes, or children in schools, and there is no better prevention of addiction and juvenile delinquency than the school sports system. And when the number of kids at school are going to be at the level of Nordic countries, we're going to have less drugs, and certainly more medals. And in that direction, I want to appeal that we direct every debate in that direction. Yes, thank you. [[Finish it, thank you very much.]] I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9206	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Vedran Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9207	Well, here you go, fellow MP, I might agree to this one observation of yours. However, this report shows that 79 sports alliances in Croatia are included in the Croatian Olympic Committee programme, which is not a small number. And as for recreation, surely a large number and former athletes participate in recreation, however, we also had a recent debate on pedagogical standards, this is one way where the state with its resources and local communities will participate because it is necessary to build both sports halls and sports playgrounds first. So all these recreationals would have a place to do that recreation. And especially young people through schools, from the lowest of kindergartens to primary and secondary schools and to our universities. So the Croatian Olympic Committee takes great care of it. However, on all of us and the units of the local community, the task in its spatial plans is to predict both those places behind the hall and for playgrounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9208	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9209	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, this laptop sort of culled in that I forgot about that detail. So first of all, I want and personally and the Club will support this report and it is quite certain that this debate today for journalists, the media that is following the course of this debate will be uninteresting because simply here there is such an express agreement between all of us because we simply know that modern sport especially Olympicism means a lot, a lot to affirm all of us, for the development of all of us and in some way just from the moment that Pierre Kuberten somehow realized his idea of restoration in the reality of this moment, we can really talk about modern history. At that moment, we can really say, "The world has become a big village." What most likely in this report will not be seen directly, but all those who know the impulses better, the impulses that some events create in the public among people, we can practically say that the moment China, Beijing is determined to host these summer games that moment the world's heat started in that direction. And because of that and certain political developments, the political events that take place within China itself because China is one complex country with a number of national minorities, with a number of minorities having difficulty communicating with that authority. And maybe these very Olympic games in Beijing have opened up some topics to debate them very much. What I wanted to mention today is that sports, Olympic games and politics go largely together. But again, on the other hand, we try to make politics practical if, as much as possible, we delete from acting on sports and what we call Olympicism. And in that sense, I would just congratulate our Croatian Olympic Committee because you are really holding on, at least I have such a feeling, those classic postulates of olympics although we know that Olympicism has changed certain standards of behavior over time. We remember, so it was not long ago, that only amateurs could participate in the Olympic Games. Much later, professionals also got their right to represent certain sports. Olympicism and sport have done much at the affirmation of minority communities. The first sport, the first, first Olympic games were let's show games of white, white. However, the development of sports has simply prompted some other minority communities, especially that black community that acquired one full affirmation thanks to sport and thanks to Olympicism. And that's what you kind of need to talk about. I particularly liked this report, I liked some details about the relationship between olympics and the environment. Today, the environment is a very important topic. This means all human activities are somehow connected and precisely emphasising here by saying that the environment is part of the concern of the olympics meant to me in some way that here it is quite serious and affirmatively working. Here, too, the saying mentions the concern of young people. Of course, that's what we all need and what we need to make clear. The concern of human health is also mentioned here in this report. So we know, let's not kid ourselves, our football player Klasnic's case. You see if sports success is the only measure, and not the concern of human health, then there are very, very serious problems. There could still be some other segments here. I'd only mention two more. First, many in the Croatian Parliament talked about how to encourage the development of our islands. Many of our islands are dead, literally dead. I can see that in this program of yours there is a... the island. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did I say that right? But it's certainly one incentive that it has, it has the opportunity to help develop our islands through sport as well. And finally, once again repeating that we will support this report as well as most parliamentary deputies would mention that I am a representative of the 5 minorities, I am a Bosniak. Here we Bosniaks are involved in the development of sports. I know that you can't speak with a saying about certain individual activities here. But here's to take this opportunity to just say that we Bosniaks from the Republic of Croatia have reported our participation in the football championship of Europe of Bosniak diaspora, which will be held in Birmingham, so here in this low I would like to praise you for being worthy of representing our community as well as Croatian sport as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9210	Thank you. We've got two replicas, first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would agree with my colleague, Tankovic, that both on this and on the other side of the assembly here today is a top sport on our mind, i.e. that we are all supporting top sports and Olympicism and that there may be no interesting polemics on the part of the press. But when we go one step further from the declaration of support there are differences between what we have done and what we are making this top sport has a better position today in Croatia. I'll give you two examples. One example is the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjellolasica. So every country in the world has one such centre where top athletes can prepare, or where the state shows that it takes care of top sports and where it is the country’s Olympic centre. With us, the situation with the Bjelalasica Olympic Centre is only in the name of this Olympic name, i.e. there are no concrete changes, or support from the current government, regardless of the fact that for five years there is a commission or four years there is a committee for the development of this centre, where I also think the president of the Olympic Committee is sitting in order to finally put the centre into office and so that this Olympic, a spirit and preparation of our athletes can take place in that centre. Perhaps even economic logic would be there to support this, as we see from this report that several tens of millions of kunas spend annually on the preparation of our athletes who usually end up in some other countries. So, in addition to declaratory support, something concrete should sometimes be given, i.e. the state should stand behind such projects and ultimately help develop Olympic sport in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9212	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Tankovic mentioned as many today care for young people, of course, because it is very important that all young people have the right to health, i.e. to sport which is actually a true prevention of health. Likewise, the right to prevent violent behavior, that is, prevention and all these addictions that are unfortunately monsters in today’s society. However, I would also mention today that sports children, of course, grow up in specific conditions, where, of course, with positive incentives, we also have stressful situations, and very often there is a fine line between discipline and even abuse. Why am I bringing this up? It was precisely because we recently had a report from the Ombudsman for children here, and unfortunately from that report, if we remember, that there was an office application in 2007, and in this way the office acted so that it actually made recommendations towards sports alliances, i.e. the Croatian Olympic Alliance. However, I am concerned that the Croatian Olympic Union, according to the Ombudsman's report, has not given any answer to those applications that were and that is why I appeal to both the possibility of actually choosing training and the training of actually coaching, because they work with our children who are in a very sensitive period of their life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9214	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9215	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Secretary. In this debate, I was encouraged as the first report very high-quality by my colleague Lugarić and that part and Mr Tankovic, where they stressed that it was very important for the medical protection of sports workers who are now I would dare say incompetent. Since I have two top football players in front of me here, so Mr. Chop, Mr. Vedran Rozic, I will, forgive Mr. Tankovic. I would like to highlight a very important problem, and since I do the same as a doctor on duty and football in my amateur community, Velika Gorica, who has over 2,000 registered football players – from the limos, seniors, and now there are veterans. Namely, what it's about. It's about that, you know that they all have their own sports cards and that these sports cards, unfortunately, are often certified without a review. Of course these people have passed certain checks, but that shouldn't happen anyway. Second. In the lower categories, it means limos, pioneers, juniors often play games without the presence of a medical worker, which is also unacceptable. All the clubs are in these big crises, and I point out that this is really one big problem and I expect Mr. Chop to say something about it, because this, this seems to me to be the opportunity that I haven't strayed into the subject. Because the "Worker" football club you know he was in the first league, now we're in third. I hope we get back, but I think that medical care is an insufficiency and that somehow needs to be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9216	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate individually and ask the president of the Olympic Committee, the esteemed Matesha, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9217	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I really thank you for your contribution to the debate and for your suggestions. As you could see from the report, we take very seriously every year what you suggest and try to change what is possible. Often, the Croatian Olympic Committee is perceived in a much wider jurisdiction than it really does. I have to say, as far as the base and the expansion of the base is concerned, our role is not great. But we're doing everything in our power. I didn't go into the details of this report, because it would take too much time. For example, only the Olympic children's kindergarten festival that we organize includes 41 cities in Croatia and 14000 preschool children, which is the largest preschool-level action in Croatia at all. I am aware, I am now coming out of my jurisdiction that the ministry is doing a lot to improve school and student sports and I believe that the changes at the head of the Croatian School Sports Union and the arrival of Mr Arapovic will contribute significantly to this. We today have very high-quality school leagues in handball and basketball unprofessional, so not children who train in clubs, but children who are of normal school age and here these days in Ivanac and I don't know if there will still be basketball league finals and handball sports leagues. We also assess the very quality and decision that school sports halls cannot be commercially used until 9 p.m., which opens up a brand new space for and gives children the opportunity to be primarily users of it. All of this, I hope, will lead to what Dr. Flego spoke about, so that Croatia gradually and in the overall activity of the population, sport is approaching a European average. We are in charge of creating conditions for our athletes to perform quality in international competitions, here with your help, I think that your debate and directly to them is the clearest signal what this High House thinks of them, about their successes and we will do everything possible for these successes to continue to be relevant and for this Olympic year to end well for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9218	I thank the esteemed president, Mr. Zlatko Matesha, and I want him and all our Olympics at the Beijing Olympic Games with good results. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the conditions for voting on that report are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9219	Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2007. The proposal was made by the Croatian Olympic Committee. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the home working body, which reads: - The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2007 is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most of the votes with 107 votes in favour and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9220	The seventh item of the agenda will be skipped because the opinion of the Legislative Committee has not yet arrived, so we move to the 8th point of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a Security Checks Act, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 66. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 84 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 129 Rules of Procedure, you received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Ivan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9221	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and parliamentary representatives. The matter of security checks to be carried out in order to establish the reasons for national security, if they constitute an obstacle to the granting of certain duties, jobs, jobs or other status rights, is currently prescribed in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia by a number of legal and sublegal regulations in a way that has arisen as a result of meeting partial needs in different periods and areas of national administration where security verification has been established as an appropriate instrument of preventive protection of those duties, jobs, jobs or status that are important from the point of view of national security protection. Most of the matter of security checks is regulated by one set of laws, such as the Security Intelligence System Act, the Data Securitisation Act, the Foreign Law, the Police Act, the State Attorney's Law, the Customs Service Act, the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It is apparent from the above that the matter of security checks is regulated by a number of legal and sublegal regulations, resulting in a conclusion on the lack of uniformity of matter and problems in interpreting the same provisions in practice. The proposed law proposes an overall and uniform legal arrangements for the implementation of security checks to verify the possible existence of security barriers in the area of national security for candidates for certain duties, jobs, jobs or status rights, i.e. data indicating the existence of a risk of misuse of those positions to national security. The integrity and uniformity of the arrangements of this substance shall include, in particular, the types and degrees of security verification, in view of their purpose and their entry into force, procedures and methods of carrying out a security check, the issues which are subject to verification or safety by the competent authorities for carrying out security checks, the volunteering of candidates, or the freedom of consent to carry out the security check established by written consent of the safety obstacle. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and provides a declaration of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe in the context of this material. It is estimated that the adoption, or implementation of this law, would not require the provision of specific funds in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9222	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Yeah. Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Honorary Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9223	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 8th session on 16 May 2008 discussed the proposal for a Security Checks Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 8 May 2008. Article 63 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the proposed legislative proposal as a parent working body. The applicant's representative met the members of the committee with the proposed legislative proposal, stressing that a comprehensive and uniform legal regulation of the implementation of security checks is proposed to verify, in the case of candidates for certain duties and jobs, jobs or status rights, the possible existence of security obstacles in the area of national security, i.e. data indicating the existence of a risk of abuse of those positions to national security damage. He further pointed out that the adoption of this legislative proposal will fully regulate and comply with EU standards of overall matter in the area of national security, necessary to meet the established obligations for access to Euro-Atlantic integration. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions. First, the proposal for a Security Verification Act and secondly, all the comments and proposals presented in the debate shall be submitted to the Proposer for the purpose of drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9224	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And first, on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9225	Here, for the introduction, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Security Checks Act in this first reading. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. This area of security checks has so far been resolved by a number of legal and sub-legislative regulations, which is largely related to areas of state administration in which transactions are carried out in relation to the availability of classified higher level of secrecy data. Furthermore, in relation to the insurance of persons and objects of special importance for national security and also with duties whose part-time work is related to the interests of national security. Most of the security clearances are regulated by the Security Information System Act, the Data Securitisation Act, the Information Security Act. It is also necessary to mention the Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information as a condition for the authorisation of access to data supplied or exchanged with the European Union. Also, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty which regulates the issue and method of verification for all Croatian citizens who have access to information exchanges. Furthermore, the security check was also a special condition for the admission of certain matters to the state administration, and this issue was resolved through the Law on State Attorney's Office, the Law on the Police, the Customs Service Act, the Law on the Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. All of this confirms that the matter of security checks has been regulated by several laws and regulations which have created certain problems in practice. The proposed law proposes to fully regulate the issue of security checks. The law clearly determines the types and degrees of security checks. The law introduces a security check for access to classified data, a thorough security check, a security check for the protection of protected persons and objects, of course depending on the degree of secrecy and how extensive the security clearance procedures will be carried out. Therefore, according to the work cycle and the powers conferred on it, the degree of secrecy shall be classified from confidential, secret to very secretive. The security checks of the first, second or third degree will be carried out in accordance with the level of secrecy. The safety check shall be carried out on the basis of a safety check questionnaire which must also contain a consent which must be signed voluntarily and by authority by the person for which the verification is carried out. The renewal of the security check shall be carried out after a period of five years. The competent intelligence agency shall provide a report to the applicant for carrying out the security check, depending on the degree of verification with the specified time limit which may not be shorter or longer than prescribed in Article 37. The applicant shall submit a final assessment of the existence of safety barriers on the basis of the safety assessment carried out. Transitional provisions also provide that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down protected facilities and persons, i.e. facilities and means of special importance for national security and that is a period of 15 days from the entry into force of this law. Finally, I will repeat this once again, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9226	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9227	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. I dare say this is no ordinary law. This law can deeply penetrate the constitutional and civil rights of a whole series of Croatian citizens. To be clear, I'm the first to have matter regulated by several laws in the future run through one law, above all higher than transparency to know what at a given moment who can do it. Otherwise, this matter is now scattered across a series of legal proposals from the Security Intelligence System Act that we adopted in 2006, and then we have the 2007 Privacy Act and then the same year, so the Security Procedures Act for the Exchange of Secret Information between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union from 2006 and that I do not add any more and finally have this Law on Confirmation of the 2003 Security Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and NATO. This law that suggests whatever anyone thinks has a deep democratic deficit for me. I also talked about NATO in Brussels and in some other destinations led by NATO experts from Bratislava on, and I always wondered how it was that people who received the mandate of citizens, who have the legitimacy of citizens, say, in one Germany, Czech Republic, England, I don't know where, that these security checks have to go, in one word I'm talking about MPs. In Croatia, I want to believe that after 2000, we have not passed. The MPs have nothing to go through with these checks. We must not pass them, not because of us, but because of the integrity of this House, regardless of what individual advocates may find themselves in touch or there are certain confidential documents. For example, I'm a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and, as I said, I hope no one checked me after 2000. We can't go back to one system under the supposed '90s surveillance. It can be misused and it can also be abused. How to verify these, for example. Do they look? There you go, for example. One IDS employee not to mention my name now, a man divorced to get a job at the Parliament even though it's funny that people at that level have to go through checks. It has to go through a clear check that you could do here and now what those who are doing check. First they go to his ex-wife, and if you go to your ex-wife, then you can clearly go to the Parliament, and then probably the second step is with your ex-wife, and if you're satisfied with that, then you can, then you're sure you're safe. I agree that these people who work at the administration on certain jobs, etc. Some of them must pass certain checks, but let us not allow MPs to be subject to the processing of secret services. The Assembly of the same, these services must be commanded, not vice versa. This American I don't know I'm going to call it the government system, this American form of surveillance, that American security fiction, that American threat fiction that leads to complete checks and total mistrust with everyone I just don't like. Predominant or should be assumed that the MP will keep a secret. He finally has this legitimacy of 15, 20 thousand people who voted for one of us. It's supposed to mean that a representative based on that legitimacy, even if he's as far as I'm concerned, as I'm calling him, because we haven't been directly elected to what I've always advocated, to be elected mayors, mayors, mayors, means we're supposed to be taking an interest in the citizens, which is why we're being elected as mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, so we're supposed to be taking an interest in the state. Who has the right to check on us? I don't think anyone should be right about that. Behind everyone, like I said, is 15 or 20 thousand people. I'm afraid this isn't going to fit on us alone. After us, both ministers and judges, clearly state secretaries, will go all the way to the president himself. And then the question is, how would we become a state? I'm not gonna tell the police, because that's one standard like I said who's out there, but I think you should stay away from it. On page 2, here it is said that the matter of security checks is clearly arranged by a number of legislative proposals, etc. On page 3 here, for example, it is said that for example for access to classified data, which affects the privacy of candidates to a lesser extent than for security questionnaires from Grade 2 or 1 etc. It means those questionnaires, but let's just skip it now. You know what I can say, too? For example, those of us who went by in the '90s, I'm not going to say the brutality of the intelligence system, but those who went through it, and even as a country, maybe we're a nice mother to what we're kind of doing today. On the other hand, however, it should be hoped that these data to be collected will not be abused. It should be hoped that individuals from the government or this intelligence mile will not be dealing data, I don't know to third parties, from the media further and should also fight, not only hope, that these services will be 100% monitored, but not only in the division of supervision that is certainly effective in the relation of the Government – the President of the State, but simply this system should be monitored through this Parliament. The more power the services in Croatia have, the more power this law gives services, or it grows, the more control over them must be growing and clearly it must be increasingly thorough. And that's just the point for me. I think it may become one of the fundamental roles of this Parliament in the future. We must send a message to those services, it will not be you who will oversee Parliament, but Parliament will be the one to oversee you. Anyway, we still have relatively little information on how it will work and, as I would say, it's normal for the law to go into second, so if we need to do the matter he's dealing with and in third reading. In this respect, Article 3(2) literally states security obstacles in carrying out a basic security check are facts that point to abuse or the existence of a risk of abuse of a job or of a duty, i.e. a duty, i.e. an emphasis on certain rights or powers to harm the national security or interest of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, what is really the point of these are precisely these duties, i.e. people who choose on these individual duties. In this law, I said it's more or less regulated everywhere in Europe, but the next day it can envy us, too, Orwell himself. I said, the law is written on the basis of a convention ratified by this Parliament there in 2003, which is one of the conditions for us to enter this security system and NATO and some other international associations. We, I dare say, Americanize society, strengthen the security community, and instead of doing a little more crime, for example. I don't know one, the one from Castlean HVIDRA or some generals a la, not to mention now names, Corrade and so on, they seem to be dealing with MPs. He'll make it clear he won't. They said they weren't even in the '90s, so we know they were. Well, we're not gonna let anyone run background checks on the president of the state, government or parliament. And in that part, I don't think this law is good, no matter what one European standard. I think so much that the former was better, I said it was all based on the 2003 International Convention ratified by this Parliament. I know the public will say "so what, let them check them out," but I think it's kind of the ones that go wrong like that, because this House has to be sacred. It's not about now I don't know, Caine, Kruno, Rosic, Jarnjak, I don't know, Flego, Mrs Antunovic etc. I claim that among public institutions, when we look from unions to the media, this House may still be the most honorable place, whatever someone thinks about it, and that's why it bothers me when people from the House or outside the House are disabling the credibility of the same. This House must be the supervision of all institutions in some way, clearly respecting their autonomy rather than vice versa. Without the freedom of this House there is no freedom of the citizens and if the position of the Parliament falls then in some way the credibility of not only the citizens in politics but also Croatian democracy falls. For decades, I dare say that the bravest sons and daughters have fought for the establishment of parliamentaryism, and this law somehow gives us one quasi one octromous parliamentaryism regardless, for the fourth time I will repeat it, for the fifth time, which similar or identical solutions have other Western European countries. So this is the first reading. Good thing this is the first reading, the law I'm sure will be adopted. But this is also one damn serious substance or damn serious matter that needs to be talked about as seriously, so if you need to confrontate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9228	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We have one correction. But before that, I would just like to point out that the generals are mentioned but in one not-so-good context, so I would pray when that is said no matter what group is particularly generals that then it is named who is thought and not all together. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9229	Although I agree with Mr. Cain in much of his exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9230	I'm sorry, but you have to start by correcting what you're saying, not what you're getting along with.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9231	I'm correcting Mr. Agent Cain's allegations regarding the American guy's and his girlfriend's and his mother-in-law's checks if you want to be specific. I think it's the same check on this American side as on the Russian side. And as for the girl and the mother-in-law, this directly states Article 28 of this proposal and that when carrying out the security check, the person who keeps in touch with other people including members of the rope family, therefore not only the father-in-law and the father-in-law, but also the father-in-law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9232	Please, it's not clear what you've made right. That's not correcting an incorrect quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9233	I said, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9234	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9235	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, respected representatives of the government. We have before us a proposal for a law on security checks, which brings our legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union. In the Republic of Croatia security checks shall be treated through several legal and sub-legislative regulations as a result of meeting partial needs in different periods and areas of state administration where security checks have been established as an appropriate instrument of preventive protection of certain duties, jobs, jobs or status that are important from the point of view of national security protection. So far in the Republic of Croatia, the matter of security checks has been regulated by the Security Information System Act, the Data Securitisation Act, the Information Security Act. The Security Intelligence System Act defines the matter of the area of security checks and the methods to be applied in this procedure. The data confidentiality law shall prescribe the implementation of a security check as a procedure preceding the decision of the competent authority concerning the authorisation of access to classified data or the decision to issue a conviction of the security clearance carried out. The Information Security Act, in order to protect security persons from accessing classified data, prescribes security checks as one of five areas of information security, together with physical security, data security, information system security and business cooperation security. Security checks in addition to other procedures for access to classified data provided or exchanged with the European Union have been regulated by the Law attesting the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of classified information and the Act confirming the Security Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty has been regulated that all Croatian citizens who, under their official duties, have access to the exchanged information should be duly verified. Following the provisions of these two international agreements concluded by the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and NATO and ratified in the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation on security checks for access to classified data. In addition, for the admission of certain matters to the state administration, certain laws prescribe prior implementation of security checks such as the Law on the Police, Customs Act, the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It is visible from now on that the matter of security checks has been regulated by a number of legal and sublegal regulations, resulting in a conclusion on the lack of uniformity of matter and the problems of interpretation in practice. The adoption of a Regulation on security checks for access to classified data instead of until then has extended the adoption of this law to introduce a complete three-stage security verification system. In view of the types of legislation, it introduces a security check for access to classified data a thorough security check and a security check to protect the security of protected persons and objects. Security questionnaires shall be filled in and signed voluntarily and by authority, together with a statement of consent to carry out a security check which shall form an integral part of the questionnaire. Security barriers shall be identified in the light of the type of security clearance and, where appropriate, the specificities of the purpose of each species. The safety review report shall be submitted to the applicant within the time limits laid down by law. The whole of the matter in the area of national security needed to meet the established obligations for access to Euro-Atlantic integration, the adoption of this law will be fully regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9236	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9237	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since this is the first reading, I agree with everyone who says it's an extremely important law. This proposal for a law is in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. This legislative proposal will fully bring together legislation that regulates this matter. Because in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, this area is prescribed by a larger number of legal and sublegislative regulations in a way that has been created as a result of meeting the needs of different periods and areas of state administration where security enforcement has been established as an appropriate instrument of preventive protection for those duties of jobs, jobs and status that are important from the point of view of national security protection. It is the rule of law of the areas of the state administration in which the tasks of the availability of classified data of higher levels of secrecy are carried out, as well as the insurance of persons and objects of particular importance for national security. Therefore, most of the matter of security clearance is regulated by the Security Intelligence System Act, the Data Securitisation Act, the Information Security Act, and I do not list all the laws and regulations governing this law. The Security Intelligence System Act was passed on 30 June 2006. It is significant by reducing the secret services to one civilian and one military, therefore, security intelligence agency and military security intelligence agency, their relationship, and the way in which security checks and the method used in this process are indicatively covered, and who issues a security clearance order and who controls it. On 13 July 2007, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision declaring the Data Securitisation Act. This Law lays down the concept of classified and unclassified data by the degree of secrecy, the classification and declassification process, the access to classified data, their protection and supervision and to which the law applies. In 2007, the International Treaties concluded by the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and NATO were adopted by the Government in 2007 by a Regulation incorporating standards that result from the legislation of individual EU countries, as well as specific security acts by the Council of the European Union and the European Commission. In 2007, a law was adopted on foreigners which lays down the conditions for the acquisition of certain status rights resulting from that law, with the prior implementation of the security check. This Proposal for a Security Verification Act proposes a full legal regulation of the implementation of security checks to verify, through certain duties or status rights, the existence of security barriers in the area of national security or data indicating the existence of a risk to abuse and those situations to national security. In the case of security checks, this law provides for the degree of security clearance that is regulated in Articles 16 to 29. Therefore, there are three degrees, first, second and third, so in Article 17, security checks for classified information with a secret marking are in very secret order of the first degree. For classified information, security clearances of the second degree shall be prescribed, and for the third classified information confidential, third-degree security verification. Article 37 is amended as follows: Of course, that deadline cannot be shorter than 30 and no longer than 120 days. For security checks II. degree, no shorter than 20 days and no longer than 90 days. III. A rate not shorter than 10 days and no longer than 30 days from the receipt of the request. It should be noted that a security check is carried out on the basis of a questionnaire whose component is the consent to carry out a security check. The safety check questionnaire should be personally completed and consent signed by the person for whom it is carried out. The security intelligence agency will not access carrying out a security check in accordance with the provisions of this Act unless consent to carry out a security check has been signed. By the time this law is passed, the entire material material in the area of material security needed to meet the obligations to join the European Union in NATO will therefore be harmonised with this bill of law. Since this is the first reading, therefore, and I think it's a quality bill of course I suggest we keep it in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9238	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9239	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, here's a few words about this important matter, but I hope we all understand the necessary law. When we talk about this law, then we have to look at it in a broader context, and I would say in a well-balanced way. Taking into account why we need this law, why almost all countries have such laws, why they insist on high standards in implementing these laws, taking into account human freedoms, human rights, but at the same time taking into account the common safety of people, the safety of life, the safety of objects, national security, the security of the economy and many other aspects, and therefore I would say certainly commenting on this law in a one-sided way is not good and is not in line with those objectives which make this law a very important place in our common security. For these reasons very often when we talk about these laws we talk about high European standards, we talk about high NATO standards. Given the processes of Euro-Atlantic integration of the existence of relevant laws in the Republic of Croatia and their implementation is very important. After Croatia's NATO entry, after receiving an invitation to Bucharest as well as the completion of accession negotiations, it can be said that the Republic of Croatia is now almost acting as a full member of NATO. It participates in almost all working bodies. Thus, the Croatian Parliament's delegation to NATO's Parliamentary Assembly will take part for the first time in the work of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly's Permanent Committee, the NATO Parliament's largest governing body. We participate in the debates, we participate in the talks but we still do not vote, but it will happen very soon next year. In the implementation of these laws, i.e. this Law, what is important is high professional ethics, high professional competence, and I would say common culture is our relationship to common security requirements and an adequate level of culture and understanding of what I initially stressed common responsibilities for common security. I remember well back in 1994 when I received an important document on my desk, security, it was called the "security programme regulation", a red book, and then I was told, "It is an important document". The Bible to the Ministry of Defense when it comes to international military cooperation. Certainly Croatia already has significant responsibility today for the exchange of data of very sensitive ones that determine not only the national security of the Republic of Croatia in Croatia but also the security of a broader international plan. The Croatian intelligence community is in some way present through its what is called the national intelligence part of a mission in Afghanistan, so-called Afghanistan. "Nick Nationaly Intelligence Unit". This unit, these people have to comply with high standards because by their work, data exchange in general determine not only their safety but also their common security, and therefore these high standards, high selection, high level of training selection, training and education are very important. What I would like to point to may be a little bit more in a few words is the fact that checking is not an exact assessment that is accurate without any additional questionnaire. It's a simple assessment. This is an etymation based on a whole series of elements that then determine the quality of that verification or assessment or ultimately safety risk. This check certainly depends primarily on people, professionals, their abilities, training, training. Depending on the information that stands in the mood, but what is very important depends also on analysts, the ability to interpret certain data in a quality and good way. Very often when it comes to a large amount of data then human intuition is not enough and support of different information technologies and methods such as "Day Manning", I do not know how to translate into Croatian, it becomes very important. What is highlighted in this Proposal for a Law in Article 25, along with the assessment of people, there are also certain methods and elements that are used and used in these checks – polygraph testing. And these polygraph studies, in any case, had an important role and place, and I would take advantage of the opportunity to warn of some new knowledge and evaluations of the quality of polygraph studies. Here I quote some of the findings, research in the prominent American magazine Nature, page 428, April 2004 and so on. The American Academy of Science conducted extensive research to determine the reliability of the polygraph testing. What was a surprise for many who then believed in the high reliability of these devices is this: well - trained people can easily and highly defeat a machine called a polygraph. The tests carried out showed that a large number, above a large number of simulations, that this device does not have an adequate level of reliability, and that caused a huge disturbance not only in the American Intelligence Community, not only in the Ministry of Defence, but also in some other institutions such as the Department of Energy, so the appropriate laboratories of national security problems did the following to reduce very quickly the number of people who had increased levels of risk. What I want to point out is that the quality of doing this job is extremely important. It's defined by a whole series of components, people, analysts, information support, but also some technologies and some devices that are definitely losing the credibility they once had today. High standards in the implementation of these laws, not only is the interest of all of us in the Republic of Croatia, but high standards, the implementation of these laws that determine common security not without reason insists on the European Union, NATO etc. In the end, I would say in any serious business, economic organization. Certainly according to these findings, a certain addition of this bill will be necessary, so I will be free to do so and I hope to propose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9240	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9241	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So to me, it is mostly understandable that defence and security and protection systems of a society that regulate certain security measures, and it is clear that every country has no country in the world that has no particular security or protection mechanisms. But the question always arises, but do we have to keep an eye on certain limits that we allow here by this law, and I mean the limits of verification? Why do I mention this fear? So, a colleague of Cain also mentioned certain concerns earlier, and it is certain that any check that enters privacy and enters the lives of individuals and families causes certain bitterness, i.e. to be certain memories of certain times, times of files, and certain openings of these same files and the availability of these contents to the public, i.e. the use of certain data for some purposes for which they are not even collected. If I view the check as an instrument of preventive protection in the area of national security, then a security check is necessary. But we also need to see if we have measures in it now. The current situation of this substance is regulated in several legislative rules four or five which I do not think is good and which leads to difficulties in applying these regulations, i.e. overlapping and clear application of certain powers or competences of individual bodies or bodies that carry out verifications. And what exactly are we verifying? We here say that we determine the loyalty, confidentiality and reliability of the verified person, or we determine its incompatibility and the person to perform certain tasks or access certain confidential information. But here from nearby events, let us remember and mentioned here HVIDRA in Split, that a month ago we were checking a person for certain jobs in a job. My belief is that a person would receive a passing grade and fill out the requested data from the questionnaire. But we see that in a month new things are being discovered and a new situation is happening. I only point here to the time factor. So the time per me should also be included here as a factor, an important factor that changes a certain state in a particular check, or in a questionnaire. Which means that we can't guarantee, despite everything, that security check for all people. Here it would also point to the article 25 that we mentioned here, which speaks of the polygraph, the application of a polygraph study, or the measures of secret data collection. I think it's really a matter of serious matter and we really need to access the content, and I think it's a good thing it's been given to perform these actions with the consent of the person being checked. If we left it out, I think we'd go into the system into another extreme. I would also like to point out from the outstanding concerns relating to the content of the bill's proposal a good attempt to fully and uniformly regulate the implementation of security measures and everything clear in order to protect national security. It is clear that here I also accept the argument of compliance with European Union regulations, but once again I point to the seriousness of the matter and believe that safety mechanisms should not be forgotten in these checks. Because if we forget them, I'm afraid there's going to be abuse or possible abuse of this data that's being collected. So here, I'm glad this is the first reading and we have the opportunity to discuss all this material again in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9242	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative and Vice President, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9243	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to express my satisfaction that the matter of security checks is regulated by this law. For what? In fact, the security check is quite normal for certain tasks to be done. It is perfectly normal for someone who performs confidential tasks for the state or anyone else to have a certain credibility, that is to say, to know whether he is suitable and whether he is sure of doing these tasks. We have prejudice over the bad experiences and work of those who have carried out security checks past the law, past morals and in favour of non-state interests, but in favour of individual interests or even worse individual accounts of such or such species. However, the need to regulate security checks to accept security checks as a single normal process and procedure when powers are given to certain people to do certain state-owned or state-interest tasks becomes more and more important by the fact that Croatia enters an increasing number of international organisations and the European Union and then has documents, having information classified as confidential or confidential. And the wider the circle of people who have such data, the greater the possibility of endangering their secrecy, and if we as a country that enters those associations accept the rules of their game, we must also accept the rules of security checks. And in my previous work as a representative and as a state official I was in situations where the credibility of the entire country was violated, the whole of the Republic of Croatia because some documents that did not contain some big secret information, but had a classification of secrecy that came either from NATO or from the European Union, broke through our system and became the subject of unnecessary debate and disseminating in our media. The media did not come to NATO or the European Union, as a rule from people who did some work in the Republic of Croatia. I think it is not good, that it really violates the credibility of the Republic of Croatia, violates our reputation and our ability to be a full, equal and credible participant of these international associations and that we participate in the promotion of both Croatian interests and the interest of these international organisations in the right and equal way. I hope that the legislator will take into account all the observations made here and made during the debate on the working bodies of the Assembly and that we will come up with the best possible solution that will not necessarily enter into the privacy of those who have to undergo a security check and that this security check is precisely the basis of this law to become something normal for all those who have the data that are classified as some of the levels of secrecy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9244	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of Proposer Ivan Damjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9245	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and MPs. Here, I thank you for the discussions, for all the remarks, the proposals, and for the concerns that have been expressed in relation to this proposal of the text of the law. One of the concerns can be removed immediately, and this is relative to the fear of security checks against you MPs. I will remind you that the Data Securitisation Act provides for first place, so access to classified data without a certificate, and without security clearance, will have, in the context of doing business in their district, in the right place, parliamentary representatives. So, without security checks, and then further ministers, judges, chief state attorney, and in Article 24 and the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Croatian Parliament and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is no concern about the security checks that would go towards you, the parliamentary representatives, and I also remind you of another safeguard mechanism against potential abuses of security checks, which is precisely a questionnaire which is a prerequisite for accessing a security check, which must be carried out by the subject-matter of that security check and also a statement of consent to carry out that security check. Anyway, thank you very much for all the comments and suggestions and we'll take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9246	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Proposal for a safety check law, P.Z.E. No. 66 hearings are closed. I am voting on the following conclusions: First, the proposal for a law on security checks is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes with 101 votes and 8 abstentions have been accepted by the proposal for a law on security checks, i.e. not by law, but by these two conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9249	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. In 2007, mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia was reduced by 47 million square meters or 47 square kilometers, and it was defined in 1.1.2008, on a surface of 997 square kilometers. 47 square kilometers, of 47 square kilometers, 20 square kilometers was returned by the method of general reconnaissance performed by reconnaissance teams of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, and 27 million square meters were returned to the work of demining by authorised legal entities in the Republic of Croatia. In 2007, over 36 million square metres of demining works were agreed. The difference between the agreed and achieved squares primarily lies in unfavourable weather conditions in 11 months 2007, which resulted in reduced realization during those periods. The structure of the returned area is dominated by agricultural areas that are totaled with 33%, forest spaces with 13%, infrastructure areas with 10%, areas within national parks and nature parks with 17%, I would like to stress here that this primarily refers to fire protection within national parks and nature parks and the removal of wild waste dumps in those areas. Allow me a few words about basic financial indicators. In 2007, 291 million kuna was spent on demining operations, out of which the state budget is participating with 164 million kuna, investors. Legal persons who finance the demining of their own infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia participated with 80 million kuna in 2007. Here I would like to point out that the biggest investor from that source is the Croatian forest that has invested in demining its surfaces over 41 million kuna and donations that were therefore in the observed period with 47 million kuna at the same time the donation was agreed with 66 million kuna. Of the donations, the largest demining donor in the Republic of Croatia is the European Union where in 2007, we have engaged 25 million kuna, most of which refers to CARDS 2004 funds and funds through fighting, so these are European Union funds to remove mine dangers in border areas where demining works have been carried out in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The total and complete marking of mine suspected space was maintained in 2007. There are over 14 thousand and 500 prescribed mine threat codes in the area, so the warning mark. I would like to point out here that each of these identified mine risk codes is part of the Croatian Mine Action Centre database and, in an appropriate way, through appropriate maps, together with mine suspected polygons and positions placed on the label, is distributed to all local administrations and self-governments that have a mine problem, the authorities of the state administration and all others who meet the mine problem in their work. In the period considered, the Croatian Mine Action Centre is in line with the amendments and additions of the Law on humanitarian demining intensified control of the quality of demining works and is today carried out with day-to-day monitoring on all works carried out in the Republic of Croatia. In 2007, there were seven mine incidents involving the death of eight people, three of whom died. I would like to say here that in 2007, the year with the least incidents and the least mine victims in the past period of facing the Republic of Croatia is with a mine problem. One of the characteristics that was not present back a year or two, meaning 2006 and 2005, is the increase in the loss of pyrotechnics. In 2008, out of a total of 8 victims, 3 were pyrotechnics, one of whom was fatal, one suffered severe bodily injury and one minor physical injury. In all three cases, it is about suffering in the pursuit of demining operations. To a significant extent, the reduction of mine victims, which in one of the most significant mine action objectives, has certainly contributed to the continuous and coordinated mine risk education organised in the Republic of Croatia according to the most targeted target groups, and in these target and most vulnerable groups, have a special priority for children and in 2007, over 100,000 children have passed various forms of targeted mine risk education. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9250	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9251	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On 16 May 2008, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2007 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 2 May 2008. Article 63 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed legislative proposal as a parent working body. The proposaler's representative met the Committee's members with the core tasks of the 2007 plan and its achievement and spent financial resources. Without discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9252	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic, on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9253	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, colleagues and fellow creditors. The Republic of Croatia suffered major damage during the Homeland War, and in the process of post-war reconstruction of the return and resuscitation of the economy, a special restriction was presented and unfortunately still a mine problem. The large areas of the Republic of Croatia were polluted with mines, a weapon that kills long after the war. Mine victims are mostly civilians, but here we have heard today also pyrotechnics who have been suffering for decades after the military retreats and silences their weapons. Given the circumstances as well as the consequences that they are causing, which are comparable to those of major environmental disasters by victims and costs, we consider mines to be the weapon that leaves behind the worst possible consequences. Although the Republic of Croatia accidentally started the problem immediately to resolve the ban on use, storage and transport of anti-walking mines and as one of the first signatories of the Otaw Convention, decided to help mine victims and demining and mark the whole area is still a prominent problem. I will only visit that in 96 years the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a comprehensive demining plan for the entire state space. The House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly adopted the Demining Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the company MUNGOS, the 97th was declared a moratorium for use, i.e. the signing of the Ottawa Convention and ultimately means the 97th and the beginning of 98th to be a mine action by the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. So while a lot of work has been done, it is still a significant problem, and the number of victims who, at the level of the Republic of Croatia from 98 to 2007, is 284 victims of which 105 fatally, speaks of the size of this problem. Here today we have a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2007 which was the basis for the implementation of mine action in the Republic of Croatia, meaning for that period. The plan consisted of humanitarian demining operations involving general and technical reconnaissance, designing, searching, demining and surveillance, then education of the population with other institutions, but assistance from mine victims. What were the basic tasks of the plan last year? The starting basis for the development of the plan was a mine suspected space which is 1044 km square in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and I like to say this billion and 44 million square meters, it may sound a little better, and the planned financial resources for that period amounted to 291 million 780 thousand kuna. The main tasks of setting up the plan were: removing mine danger from the surface a little less than 30 km square, searching and demining, completing the revision of the entire mine suspected space, maintaining the mark of the entire mine suspected space of the Republic of Croatia, intensifying quality control of works, applying a new information system on mining, preparing to withdraw the World Bank's credit, developing a new national mine action programme, continuing the education of the population and helping mine victims, but also strengthening international co-operation. Which of these tasks contains this report. Well, here's one. 1. In 2007, the total SME was already mentioned, meaning 1044 km square, in 12 counties and 116 units of local self-government, marked with 12 thousand 328 warning tables. 31. 12. In 2007, the total mine suspected space finally fell below a thousand, so below a thousand kilometers, it is 997km square. Still in the area of 12 counties slightly smaller, means 112 units of local self-government, but with slightly more plates, 14 and a half thousand plates, but we also have new victims in 7 mine incidents, we have 8 victims of which 3 fatalities. So here's the first job I've done before is how we see it with 92.3%, which makes it a little more than 27 kilometers square, which is good, and it's good because it's over-planned, so by 116.6%. It is good, except that a lot is done, that the most significant priorities are set and defined, the most significant priorities that are set in this case by the units of regional self-government on the basis of the proposed units of local self-government. It's a pretty good, organized and stalking system of priorities. I'm glad to see here from the report through these counties that these local self-government and regional self-government units are fully respected. By analysis by county, I guess they'll say more to their colleagues later, but priorities are set in a way that gives priority to quality agricultural areas. I may recall here only from this analysis seeing that the participation of pre-accession funds was very important, and I will remind Zadar County, I was already talking about the withdrawal of pre-accession funds, was the first to withdraw these funds although it was not easy, the delegation was not ready to invest the first funds from pre-accession funds in demining. However, the model applied by Zadar County, which is that we put funds of pre-accession funds to a match through the International Mine Action Fund and doubled them back to Zadar County one part, I was glad, went to other counties and later applied other counties, as this report shows, that good models continue to spread. Perhaps this is an opportunity to say that it would be good for other ministries to plan and withdraw funds that are coordinated with the Croatian Mine Action Centre and to include and demining in programming. Structure of demining and contracted areas in 33.4% means agricultural areas, 16% of tourism, I would say better destinations than tourist infrastructures, 13% of forests and 10% of infrastructure facilities and 8% of gardens suggest that, which is good, that over 57% of projects are related to socio-economic development, 34% with security, and 8.8% to environmental priorities. This tells us about the further phase of demining the Republic of Croatia, because I remember when over 95% of the projects were related to security. As regards expert supervision, the report shows that in 16 cases, mine-explosive assets or unexploded murderous assets have been found during the controls, indicating that there is room for improvement and that there is increased supervision and sanctions for repeat companies. The number of total removals of 6 thousand and 120 mine-explosive assets suggests that we are not yet close to the complete removal of mine problem in the Republic of Croatia. The capacity that the Republic of Croatia has is respectable. It's 27 commercial companies, one NGO, 571 pyrotechnics, 46 machines and 74 demining dogs. These are the capacities that the Republic of Croatia has developed during this ten-year period, in the previous ten-year period, and they guarantee that we can solve the mine problem much faster and much better. They should be fully engaged and developed in that segment of knowledge and technology and exported. As far as financing is concerned, 2 and a half billion kuna has been invested since the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The state budget was doubled, meaning from 83 million to 164 million in 2007. The joyful growth of the investment of legal persons, i.e. investors and units of local and regional self-government, as well as the increase in donations of 16% I would also take the opportunity to thank here on behalf of the HDZ Club and all of us donors who are not a small number in this segment of humanitarian demining. We see the biggest donations in the last year that they were European Commission delegations. However, we must not forget those donors that are since '98. Helped all the way down here. I will mention only one example of the most pronounced in the Zadar County and this is the Kingdom of Norway whose funds are allocated through the Norwegian National Aid Association, which has so far invested in Zadar and Vukovar-Srijem County over 11m euros. Besides the Kingdom of Norway, there is still the United States Government with significant resources, Italy, France, Monaco and many others. The completion of the revision of the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia which started in 2005 should certainly be completed as soon as possible because it is the basis for the development of quality demining plans, the definition of priorities but thus a more rational use of financial resources. Since both the marking and the control of the markings are carried out at the same time, it certainly also affects the safety of citizens. The full application of the new information system on the minimum for which many assumptions have been made and we are looking forward to it on the ground should be put into office as soon as possible and made available to all units of local and regional self-government and institutions and also to citizens. Intensification of quality control of works must be a permanent task of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. And as for the preparation for using the World Bank loan, we at the HDZ Club think they could have been better, faster because it's a loan. They are not grants but credit under more favourable conditions which could have been faster since I know that the completion of the projects at the Croatian Mine Action Centre could have been withdrawn at a very high level. And the very way of running projects for this loan is a little different from the system that has been used so far. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports activities related to education and co-ordinated role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre to help mine victims. Although the number of victims has been significantly reduced for years, here is what they have been talking about over the past seven mine incidents and 8 victims, indicating that civilians are suffering in their fields, hunting, and pyrotechnics, as well as talking about the weight and danger of the work of pyrotechnicians. And there's room for improvement here. We certainly support all activities that are related to the assistance of mine victims but also to strengthening international cooperation in particular in that section relating to the export of our technologies and knowledge, I think we have a lot to do. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9254	On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9255	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Mine Action Centre, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party will support the 2007 report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources. When we talk about this subject of humanitarian demining, then it is certainly a subject that is sad for many because many human lives in Croatia are simply shut down because of mines. This story is also expensive because, indeed, to demining the entire Republic of Croatia, there is still a need to invest a lot of financial resources, many years, but also to hire a lot of people to end it. The story is also intertwined with problems and doubts as well as expectations of citizens of those who own land and this land is still mined today. Of course, there can also be complaints from various sides that there are parcels that are demining, and then they are re-installed, and they are re-minded, but there is certain need to strengthen the control system to remove such doubts. In this story of high expectations, it is certain that those who wear their heads in the bag and who walk in these minefields are trying to make Croatia safe from mines, and these are the pyrotechnicians who rightly expect much higher wages. And of course there is also the Mine Action Centre which is the bearer of all these important activities and it has its expectations and these expectations are rightly directed towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to the Parliament and to the various donors because, regardless of how much demining funds have been provided so far, relations have been increased when it comes to the state budget, these funds are still insufficient to address the problem of mine by 2009 to what the EI is bound by the country signator of the Otva Convention acts that we have signed. The Croatian Mine Action Centre has established a mine suspected space on nearly 11,000 polygons that are precisely drawn into the cards are entered into the file. It is also important to highlight the structure of these mine suspected areas from which it is visible as the director himself mentioned that of the current 997 km square most of the forest space is 54%. Prioritisation has thus far created and security in almost total infrastructure of reconstruction and return areas and mine suspected areas have been marked with 15 thousand mine hazard codes. What must surely concern all of us, and I believe that the responsible people at the Mine Action Centre are concerned about the fact that every year some 2,000 characters are stolen from mines, that no one is yet criminally or criminally sanctioned, that it is not logical how someone thinks about stealing those tables and putting other people's lives at risk. And for the renewal of these laws CROMAC spends half a million kunas a year on which, for example, we could buy a well-quality mammographer for early breast cancer detection rather than repairing the damage of irresponsible citizens. The report also shows that demining balance has been achieved in the counties. It is important to say that more works have been agreed than planned and for information unlike neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, three times as many areas are demining each year. The capacity of Croatian companies has been constantly increased. Today, a total of 28 commercial companies have invested more than 30m euros in machinery and equipment. 45 different machines have made demining faster, cheaper and more secure in any case. If we look at the objectives and if we want to increase demining by 30% more surfaces per year than it has been with the current dynamics, then, in addition to increasing human resources, at least 30% of the funds should be increased through the state budget, but also through various donations to reach at least 450 million kuna annually and to meet the objectives set. We believe, of course, that these funds exist, that it is possible to provide them with a slightly stronger engagement, but of course when it comes to rebalancing. What is often warned and what should be the subject of the talks is a problem that is not enlightened until the end it is a question of the return of the demining VAT, i.e., no one opposes that VAT is charged but it would certainly be positive if those funds were returned to demining and thus would increase the demining area of 4 km squared according to estimates at the annual level. Donor funds, as many have mentioned, are significant, but they are still not enough to achieve that goal. There are resolutions that must be directly interested in the Republic of Croatia to speed up demining, that is, above all, the Ministry of Culture that cares about protected areas but also the competent agriculture ministry when it comes to agricultural areas or forestry and water economy when it comes to forests. And in this sense, they are expected to have more engagement in the use of pre-accession funds. It may also be heard in the media today, especially from some state officials' recent awareness that it is possible in demining areas because for years they have calmed down to apply the principles of organic food production, but still on this, I could say lamentations at a marketing level and not be approached seriously. And it is certain that it is a resource, that such land is a resource for the application of organic production. Yes, and this Parliament, in the framework of the adoption of the agriculture budget, significantly increased the funds precisely for organic food production, that some counties are doing so. So I can say my county of Sisak-Moslavina, where it is just located Mine Action Centre, which is still the most burdened with mines along with Vukovar-Srijemska. In this respect, it is certainly necessary to move towards promoting organic food production in the demining area. A colleague from HDZ mentioned that the process of realising the World Bank's loan for socioeconomic recovery, which makes it quite difficult for the 17m-euro demining component, is bureaucratically difficult and is true. And this very slow procedure conditioned that nothing was realised in 2007, and we hope that this dynamic would accelerate because it would really be a shame not to withdraw that money. Some of the public companies are slightly weaker in fulfilling their respective frameworks, and there we cannot praise HEP and Croatian railways, but we can therefore praise the Croatian forests, which are exactly what is expected to be the biggest engagement. The absolute priority in demining should be worth agricultural land, the area of fire protection, the areas of national parks and nature parks, as well as all the areas defined in the analyses by the people of CROMAC as general security, and that makes about 10% of the total space somewhere. Unfortunately, previous activities have failed to activate in an adequate way domestic donors. They participate with only 9% of total donations, while foreign donors participate with 91%. And our position in the HSS that there is a certain chance that the plan could, therefore, be increased for the next period. What worries us and scares us, and that's where I'd like to hear Mr. Director later and your comment, is an inscription from one of the daily newspapers last week that's been reporting on the so-called. The biotechnology company Ares, which deals with the development of GMO mine detection plants and operates in Croatia. And which has resorted to the ringing and telephoning and harassing of people on the ground especially in Slavonia and Baranja, Sisak-Moslavina County, Karlova County, where they call the owners of these suspicious, mined, but valuable agricultural land and ask them if your country is polluted by mines, whether you are interested in selling your land or property. And therefore, with this extremely unusual advertisement so far unmarked, this Danish company obviously wants to buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, which we know that the Law on Agricultural Land is not possible, so these are illegal attempts above all. Secondly, they want to place inaccessible GMO technology that we in this Croatian Parliament have made known through a series of laws what we think, and we think there is no space in the Republic of Croatia to allow such experiments and to exercise and play God on our skin. I hope they will stand up to it except you, as the competent authority and companies in Croatia dealing with demining, and they are 28. Because I don't think that we should let, under quotes, "International cheaters" who intend to mix with cheap land bought from poor Croatian peasants to charge expensively and earn money on technology that is certainly not acceptable to us in Croatia and the HSS will never allow such living, genetically modified organisms to be released into the environment, to disrupt our biological balance, to destroy our autoctonic seeds and to destroy concrete agriculture and the environment in the Republic of Croatia. So there you would certainly beg your reaction and your observation. I would also like to remind myself of the statistics of the Croatian Mine Action Centre 110 thousand still undiscovered mines, 997 km of the mined area, 12 counties, and their parts still mined, 114 municipalities were not completely cleared from mines, 2.5 billion kuna or 340m euros, spent on mine removal, 85% of mine detection and removal was financed by the state, 15% of mine detection and mine removal was financed from international donations, 330 million kuna annually is set aside for demining the country, 2019 announced that the deadline for all mines in the Republic of Croatia was announced. We would, of course, like it a long time ago at the HSS Club. 1878 people have been killed by mines since 1991. 474 people died from mines. Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, I would like to thank, of course, except for you at the Croatian Mine Action Centre and our pyrotechnics, Croatian pyrotechnicians in performing this in the Republic of Croatia, for the largely responsible, dangerous activities of humanitarian demining operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9256	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9257	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, so I think we all agree here that there is no greater tragedy for man, no greater tragedy for one community, for the people of war. One of the greatest then tragedies of war or every war they've been killed, they're wounded, they're destroyed cities, and understandably they're mines. The plan for 2007 was 1044 square kilometers of mine space to remove mines from 29.39 square kilometers. But what should also be acknowledged is that this plan has been transferred and mines have been removed from 47 square miles [47 sq km] so that there are still 997 square miles [97 sq km] below mines left. If that's the case, then this plan for 2007 has been exceeded by 60%. And then it's understandable for all praise. However, if it is done at this pace that is commendable to Croatia it will take at least 21 years to say the country we are without mines. Mines are only one consequence of the war clearly. The worst consequence of every war is that they are dead, they are mutilated lives, destroyed cities, a ruined economy, abandoned areas where people, lost, missed business opportunities, and understandablely then and mines contaminated space. What am I saying? Croatia still today, and thus will be safe in the next 10, 15, 20 and perhaps 30 years will have to allocate 6 to 7% of its budget only to resolve the consequences of the war. These 6.7% of the budget is a direct damage that is paid out of the state budget each year to families of the injured, disabled, for returnees, for defence, for demining and so on. How much money is that? It's about a yearly level of about 7 billion kuna. Only the Ministry of Defence and intergenerational solidarity has, meaning only for defenders, the budget of 5.6 billion kuna. So that 7 billion kuna would be one equivalent that in a year in Croatia could restore all hospitals or half of new hospitals. Understandably, we have some priorities and normally we have to take care of under number one people who were killed in the war. These 7 billion kunas, which is why I'm saying that to see what the size of the money is, that's as much money as it would be enough for us to renovate all Croatian shipbuilding in a year or build a Danube-Sava channel plus a tunnel through Učka. This is what our citizen or our citizens have to set aside annually only for the consequences of the war and it is understandable that this policy must continue. We have to single out unfortunately, not unfortunately, for the restoration of the collapsed houses on "Storm" but for some other occasion. Why do I say sorry? Because after the Storm, it was not necessary to destroy, destroy, destroy, mine more than 20,000 that family buildings, which are economic buildings. When I say that we're going to have to allocate these funds, and for the next 20, 30 years I'm not really far from the truth, no matter what we execute and rebuild, let's say, it's because for 500 thousand defenders, it means that they're in the register, but unfortunately, that register is still not public and is being guarded as a snake's feet. We have the means of these 500 thousand defenders in the system under quotes of their own privileged pensions, or these people who were defenders will receive in the future or receive already 45% of the average salary if they have the right conditions. What is said as such is here, for example, on page 5 of the 2007 overall achievement, it is necessary to point out that I fully quote "removed mine danger, all areas of the cities of Biograd at sea, Nina, Sinj and the municipality of Tovarnika. The mine threat has been completely removed from the area of possible individual and mass graves of aggression victims in the Republic of Croatia, requested by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Search operations, demining the path of future Bosiljevo-Split pipelines and regional local gas pipelines were also agreed. In 2007, jobs were processed on over 92% of contracted areas. Last year, a mine threat was removed from all electrical distribution facilities in the Republic of Croatia, except for 35 kilowatts, Vinkovci, Vinkovci 1, 2 and so on." Why did I talk about the funds Croatia spends annually on the consequences of the war? Because the European Union should also understand that dimension in which Croatia is located and that Croatia could not have had one transition, such as one Slovenia, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, I do not know Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, although there is approximately conversion, privatisation ended the way it ended in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, only for demining the year is allocated without pensions for pyrotechnics 291 million kuna, which is equivalent to EUR 40 million. Of that money means of that 294 million, 291 million kuna 164 million kuna gives the budget plus the legal person and part of the state administration associated with, say, public authorities and another 72.9 million kuna. And I suppose donations from the world amount to about 46 million kunas or 6 million euro. All of them, and that's what page 19 says, one big, big thank you. We see here what sources of funding are through the form of EU donations. It was agreed for 2007. 25.9 million kunas, 13.5 million kunas. The Kingdom of Norway has agreed on a donation of 13.2 million kuna. U.S. contracted donations of 8 and a half million kuna. SR Germany 5.8 million kuna. “Square of Peace” 2.9 million kuna. The great leadership of Luxembourg is EUR 69 million. “Vipnet” gave a million kuna. “Adopt” million 360 million kuna. The Kingdom of Belgium million 98 million kuna. Canada 245,000 kuna. Japan 816000 kuna. The Principality of Monaco 544000 kuna, etc. etc. I purposely mention them because we must not forget them and all these financiers should be sincerely thanked for helping demining the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps we should also encourage the administration to be more active in seeking donations. However, as time has passed since the war, it will certainly be more difficult and the efforts that will seem to be in this direction will be increasingly difficult, and the financial results, to put it this way, are becoming more uncertain. What is good, which is also the director if I am not wrong with this Croatian Mine Action Centre, pointed out that we have fewer and fewer victims than mines every year. For example, '98. As many as 88 people were killed by mines in this country. In 2004, let's skip some time on 16, 2005. 13, 2006, 10 of them, and three of them last year. Of these three, one, as we heard, was a pyrotechnician. There is probably no more ungrateful job on a globe than their own and so many of these people should go to the maximum meeting of working conditions that should be prescribed in one special way, than taking care of their salaries, up to that early retirement or pension. All in all once again for the end thanks to donors, thank these pyrotechnics who work to demining the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly one of the bravest jobs and that is why these people should be rewarded, but it is also necessary to hire those who will come from third countries so that the Republic of Croatia is as demining as quickly as possible, not that it takes another 21 years, so that only after the end of 21 years can we say that there is no land we are without mines. All in all, precisely because of this fact that the demining plan last year was transferred by as much as 60%. That's commendable information. This report should also be supported by the understandably competent Croatian Mine Action Centre to stimulate it to work on obtaining funds and at least to continue to demining the Republic of Croatia with such intensity if not more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9258	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I've prepared two pages somewhere, but due to the time limit, I'll be very brief. I note that 800,000 grenades fell on the City of Vukovar. The last 86 days of Vukovar hell in the environment have dropped from 700, 800 grenades a day, not a month, on a day resulting in 80 percent of the city being destroyed. Feel it on the centuries-old canvass that are still painful, have no large leaves like before, feel it on the inhabitants. Yet our Vukovar is near the Danube, the Danube gave him the strength to stand on his feet and not trade it for a single city. But we move on to “Croatia without Mines”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9260	Thank you. Detained, no tossing from the bench. Please, nice! It's not appropriate! Whether 3b or 4b is inappropriate. Let's move on. Dear Representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9261	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Director, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2007. We who come from Sisak-Moslavina County, a county that has been significantly affected by a war whose territory has been occupied by over 53% always with great care follow the reports concerning the immediate resolution of the war consequences. So in this report, I paid attention to items relating to Sisak-Moslavina County, but also to the overall demining situation in the past year in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Since I, like my colleague Mlinaric, want to significantly shorten this exhibit, I will say just a few words about Sisak-Moslavina County. In my county in 2007, mine danger was removed with over 2 million square meters of agricultural land by the garden in the settlements of Sunja, Petrinja, Cvrtkovac and Vedro polje in the municipality of Sunja, Glinska poljena and... in the city of Petrinja, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the town of Glina, and Jasenovac and Usčica in the municipality of Jasenovac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In achieving the Sisak-Moslavina County plan, the European Union's investment under the CARDS 2003 programme needs to be highlighted in respect of 999000 euros in demining and search operations from that source of funds were fully agreed in 2006. But the full execution was realized in the first semester of 2007. As we see in the structure of demining areas, it is mainly agricultural areas that we welcome, and we also welcome the demining of gardens that are demining in the area of 11 polluted counties, which is a division of 8.7% or over 3 and a half million square meters demining and search area. So here I would also say that we accept this report and I am pleased that this report has been implemented with over 90% overall and also in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9262	Thank you. Dear Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9263	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Director. The humanitarian demining carried out in the Republic of Croatia is a complex long-term process and we all know how it came about and why. That should not be spent on words, and I fully understand my fellow soldiers, Mlinarić and others when they talked about it more emotionally. After this report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan, I have two questions or problems. First, in what position is the demining of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the national programme adopted in 1998 and in what state is CROMAC? This report doesn't make it very clear to me. This report did not speak of problems likely in demining although they are known to us all, and I primarily think of the chronic lack of funds for people who run the Mine Action Centre. Just a few days ago, we had a pyrotechnic strike, and in general, several times a year, there was a halt in the work of pyrotechnics. It's very important, and I think we need to talk about it. I ask the question why, why, for what reason? Is it because of the unresolved status of the pyrotechnics, we've heard about it a little bit, people don't have yet, they haven't solved their status, we have to deal with it all together to solve them, there's about 700 of them, and we have to do something to make these people finally have the satisfaction, the one they need to have. Is it because of a collective contract that also didn't define certain things about pyrotechnics? Is it because of the lack of work, the lack of funds for demining or pyrotechnics from other countries that are much cheaper, which are now working on our minefields? We must have answers to these important questions so that we can successfully look at the problems of demining in our beautiful country. As you saw in the report, another large part of the Republic of Croatia is under mines or mine suspected. The National Mine Action Programme, adopted in 1998, voted in this House, has clearly set a goal and a vision. It is 2010 as the deadline to clear the mine contaminated surface complete. Today it is clear to us that we cannot respect this national programme and that we must do something else. I suggest we create some other national program that won't be a dead letter on paper and we all have to stick to because we know what problem we have with these unfortunate mines in the whole area from Dubrovnik to Vukovar. The reason of course it's not in CROMAC, they're doing their job, they're pushing their job, it's not even in the number of pyrotechnics and machines, but the reason is that there's not enough resources that we're detaching from the state budget and state-owned companies HEP, Forest, Water, you've seen companies that are more isolated, there's those who haven't worked very hard to isolate, and by law, you have to have certain means of demining. This year's budget is also small given how many authorised pyrotechnicians and companies are involved in this business. When we had a debate on the state budget in this House, some parliamentary parties asked through amendments for more demining funds and were smoothly rejected. After this latest strike of pyrotechnics, Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic promised to allocate more funds probably through the budget rebalancing when it is now demining and it is good and it should have been done by me drinking at the very beginning when we started this year, but again it is never too late for a good thing and I think it should separate those funds because this pace is terribly slow and in this way we may not be able to demining Croatia for another ten years. This is the problem with all of us. Mines don't ask for political orientation and nationality, they hurt and kill equally left and right, and even strangers, we saw a case on Visa when a man lost his leg near the military upstairs. I will repeat, in order to successfully and quickly demining the Republic of Croatia, there should be at least 400 million kunas per year, not for CROMACs, not for cold drives in CROMACs for people who are employed, but only for demining purposes. When I asked in the introduction the question of the state and position of CROMAC, I primarily thought of its position and the drive to do the greatest in increasing budgetary resources and as the structure and vision of the development of CROMAC in the future, I would like to know something more about it. Is there anything else to do, any changes, any innovations, I'm very interested in? Before this debate, I was contacted by several people from the Employers' Association and then asked me to say yes, in a nice way, because I know that you are responsible and very honest people, they think that maybe the system is a little bureaucratic and that you should think about taking a more flexible view of the companies that do this work in terms of standardising the impact on the ground, but again, what I stress, that you hold tightly to the control of the demining surfaces, you must not, of course, happen that they do it quickly, and that, after that, in the supervision that is carried out by CROMAC, they happen to find mine assets that are deadly. We know that the pace of demining is terribly low, and the capacities are much higher, and that's where we come to a huge disproportionate death of pyrotechnics. People, that's what my colleagues know, and my fellow soldiers know that a part of the pyrotechnics may have died because employers make them work, to be more efficient, to make as much as possible, and yet there are restrictions in CROMAC, exactly how many standards can be made daily in the minefield, and how much in the mine suspected field. It seems to me a full report, and I would like to know how many employees there are in CROMAC, and there is this disproportionateness for me in relation to the funds allocated to demining and what is spent on cold drive. Well, maybe two words about it later. As I said, it seems to me that a new demining strategy should be made and see what are the relative and objective deadlines when we can firmly be sure that our people will be safe and that we can solve this demining problem. I will also shorten so that we do not pay back now, of course, to support any effort that will contribute to the faster and better functioning of CROMAC, I fully support the director of CROMAC in its efforts to raise funds from various sides and about the intention to maintain a positive balance between CROMAC and companies carrying out humanitarian demining. I know what these relationships are, and it's good, and I need to continue this fine, all together, to do it all the way. Of course, I will support this report, and I hope that in the foreseeable period we will provide enough resources for people who work in demining to also provide greater salaries and better status, and in the end that we can demine the territory of the Republic of Croatia as quickly as possible, for which it is terribly difficult, especially now these things that are coming. These are mountainous areas, the priorities were some others, and I think that in this segment, we need maximum support for CROMAC, regardless of which government was at the head of this country and providing them with enough resources so that they can plan and carry out what their tasks are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9264	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9265	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected to the director with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2007. In fact, 10 years ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the Croatian Mine Action Centre as a central state body with the task of coordinating and managing all activities related to mine action. The humanitarian demining plan for 2007 was based on the Law on humanitarian demining and was the basis for the implementation of mine action in the Republic of Croatia in 2007. In 2007, mine action was carried out through more activities, and I will say more about the activities of education and the population from the dangers of unexploded murderous means because I believe it is an important activity to prevent the worst. As with the entire anti-minin world community, education and awareness of the population of these dangers is conducted in the Republic of Croatia. The basic objective of information for the public, various formal and informal programmes and maintaining a continuous level of knowledge of the mine danger in the period until the mined spaces are polluted from mines and dedicated to users for safe use. A greater number of different target groups need to be clearly and continuously pointing to the danger of mines. How to identify it under mine environment conditions, how to survive the period until mine danger is removed and how to find suitable forms of behavior in different daily activities and seasons. On 31 January 2007, the total mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia was 1044 km2. This area is located in 116 towns and municipalities and was marked with 12 thousand 328 markers of mine danger. The mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia in the size of 1044 km2 and the planned funding of 291 million 780 thousand kuna were the starting basis for drawing up the 2007 plan. This humanitarian demining plan for 2007 was achieved as follows. On 31.12.2007, it reduced mine suspected space from 1044 km2 to 997 km2. The plan was implemented in part of the demining and search areas of 92.3%. As I come from the area of Sibenik-Knin County, I am particularly pleased that in 2007 mine risk was removed from the area of Krka National Park, taking into account the fact that the Krka National Park is in a touristic view for the Sibenik-Knin County, but also for the entire Republic of Croatia. Over 40% of search and demining jobs over one million square meters of priority areas in the towns of Drnis and Skradin have been agreed, with particular emphasis on the area of the future tourist zone of Prukljan. In other activities in this county, I must highlight the removal of unexploded murderous KB1 funds from the Obilić hill area by the town cemetery Kvanj and the settlements of Šubičec in the town of Sibenik. 150 thousand m2 of agricultural land was also demined in the village of Velika Glava in Skradina by the means of the Federal Republic of Germany and I thank them this way. In 2007 a total of 307 expert controls were carried out on the activities carried out and 1013 expert controls under search and demining operations. The largest part of the search and demining was the company MUNGOS d.o.o. with a 14.6% stake then "Deming" with 12.1% and "Doking" with 8.5%. During 2007, 265,000 metres of military facilities financed by the MORH were demined and carried out by members of the 33rd Croatian Land Army Engineering Brigade. This way I thank and commend all those extremely brave people who enjoy such risky jobs, and all in order to keep the Republic of Croatia as few mines and as few injuries as possible, and especially because they protect children who are the most critical group and the most unprotected group. I also thank you, of course, to all those donors involved in the humanitarian demining plan. We all have a common desire to have as few mine-free areas as possible in the coming years and to eventually make Croatia a land without mines. For the sake of everything said, I will support this report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9266	Thank you. Honorable representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. In the process of post-war reconstruction and the return of exiles, economic recovery is a special restriction and remains a mine problem. Nearly a quarter of Zadar County's land surface after the Homeland War was polluted with mines, insidious weapons that killed long after the war. Mine victims are mostly civilians who have been suffering for decades after the military retreats and after the weapon is silenced. Given the circumstances as well as the consequences that arise, which are comparable to large environmental disasters in the number of victims and costs of removal, we consider mines to be the weapon that leaves behind the worst possible consequences. The entire mine - polluted area becomes inaccessible to the population, the fertile country remains unused and thus ceases to be a significant source of existence for a large number of people. Zadar County with Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac is one of the most polluted mines. It is still estimated by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, mines or mine suspected about 77.4 km2 area of the county. Zadar County, although in the society of the most polluted, but not the most polluted, unfortunately for the total number of mine victims, is leading in the Republic of Croatia, and in conclusion from 31.12.2007, the total number of victims is 264. Protominic activity in 2007 was carried out through humanitarian demining, population education and assistance to the mines and unexploded killings. Implementation of the general survey and search operations reduced mine suspected space of 47 million m2. According to the Republic of Croatia, 997 km2 of mine suspected space remained. So the famous barrier is less than a million km2. In the structure of the areas planned for humanitarian demining, the largest share had agricultural areas of the first order, of course, with the aim of putting agricultural land into operation and initiating agricultural production. In 2007, as well as previous years, the largest source of finance for demining works was the state budget that took part in financing with 56.5%. It is significant for the prominent growth in the investment of legal persons, i.e. 67% of investors, compared to 2006. It is a joint task to work systematically and persistently to remove the dangers of mines forever and thus make it possible for all the inhabitants to live safely. In view of the quality of the report, support for the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9268	Thank you. An individual debate, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9269	Thank you, Vice President. After reading this report, it can be assumed that in the humanitarian demining activity in the Republic of Croatia everything is ideal, that there are practically no problems and that all planned activities, planned activities in 2007 and achieved. But is that right? As a whole, the report answers the question of the implementation itself, the planned humanitarian demining plan for 2007, while issues such as spending of financial resources in 2007, the real state of play regarding the expert staff for the implementation of humanitarian demining, employment aside from public tenders, remained irresponsible. In 2007 232 million kunas were foreseen for the implementation of humanitarian demining by the state budget. This amount for the demining activity itself was envisaged and 164 million kunas 406 000 were realised and 70,56% of the total financial resources secured by the state budget. The analysis of the adopted budget for 2008 notes the decline in the share of financial resources directly planned for the implementation of demining compared to the total financial amount provided for and approved under the State budget. The comparison of the 2007 budget and the 2008 budget imposes the fact that the total financial resources from the state budget, which are allocated to humanitarian demining, are increased, while the share of funds that are directly focused on demining activities is lower by about 10%. Also, there is a rise in financial resources in the heading of administrations with 38 million 295 thousand 309 kuna, compared to, in 2007, to 42 million 822 thousand kuna this year. The question arises whether the demining system in the Republic of Croatia has been established to address the mine problem as quickly as possible in the Republic of Croatia and for the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or whether it has been established to provide and employ a number of people. What really makes this report incomplete is the lack of data from the part relating to the implementation of public procurement, i.e. how many in 2007, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, public competitions, how many direct contracts, if any, how many positive competitions, how many annexes, signed contracts, etc. If the amount of financial resources spent and the lack of data from the part of the public procurement relating to a transparent display of the spending of financial resources from Croatian citizens is taken into account, this report may be considered incomplete to the minimum. Furthermore, the report shows the total number of currently engaged and accredited companies, 27 commercial and 1 non-governmental organisations, and 571 accredited pyrotechnicians in humanitarian demining operations. The report does not contain any information as to how many pyrotechnicians who are accredited and have powers were actually engaged in demining activities, what is the number of daily or annual engagements and general employment of pyrotechnicians. Also, there is no record of how many new pyrotechnicians were educated in 2007. In 2007, there was not a single course for pyrotechnicians, indicating that he was insufficiently concerned about the education of staff who performs a very complex and life-threatening job. Finally, the fact that only approximately 28km square of a total of 997km of square-square mine suspected space is demining annually indicates the complexity of the problem of humanitarian demining in the Republic of Croatia, and that it requires a different and more serious approach for the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia than it has ever been. I hope that the National Programme of Mine Action, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to make by half of 2008, will provide the necessary solutions and speed up the dynamics of the clearing of the Republic of Croatia from mines and that will be within a reasonable period for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9270	Thank you. On behalf of the club, at the end of five minutes, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go. Please, a little more patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9271	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues from CROMAC, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it doesn't take five minutes for four or five grades on this year's report. First, the SDP club will support this report, although you have had the opportunity to hear individual critical objects, and I think it would be good to consider exactly what is now said as an addition possible for the next report, so there is no doubt. I know that in addition to the humanitarian demining itself, the Croatian Mine Action Centre represents an institution that represents a unique form in many ways and in world terms, a form of well-organised and well-organised institution that performs a whole number of other affairs, which is listed among other things in this report. Since education, from the fact that the reformed education of pyrotechnics at the university, testing machines, so I don't repeat everything that just partially touched the report itself. I'm familiar with the circumstances with the work of CROMAC, so I wouldn't particularly commend or talk about it here. That's the first, so we accept that report. Secondly, it is certainly the most important fact that, at least since CROMAC exists, we have victims of mines in one year. It's for every praise and I don't think it happens by accident and it's not only the result of the reduction of mine suspected surfaces, but it's certainly the result of a more serious approach and education, especially young people, children, and a better indication of mine suspected spaces. This should remain one of the key priorities. Until he can mine at least we can fence and tell people here don't play with your lives and your health. Third, biggest problem, we all mentioned him here. On two occasions I tried to propose it as a possible solution, it was relatively unstable and quite certainly not enough funding. I propose a new ten-year mine action programme in Croatia is under way. I propose once again to the Croatian Government to separate a fixed percentage for demining, specifically I propose and I propose that it continue to be 0.4% of the state budget. That means twice as much money to demining, somewhere around 480 million kuna from the state budget. This means that these pyrotechnicians will work, which means that a stable budget can plan stable work for the years to come. And finally, another suggestion. Just from the fact that we have an orgware, software, hardware, we have everything we need. We have an extraordinary database, we have experience. I think Croatia must start to export more serious knowledge and experience that we have gained in the mine action in the years that are here. And finally, I repeat again what I said last year. Let's people find a way to repay the Kingdom of Norway, Luxembourg and some other countries that have selflessly helped us to repay ourselves by at least some great state recognition. This is essential because they do not have to do it but they do some countries incomparably more than their economic, financial or political power in the world contributes to reducing the mine problem. Here, it is a suggestion not to the CROMAC but to suggest to the Government that in this way the mine problem in Croatia is being held in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9272	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Otto Jungwirth Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9273	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Allow me first of all to thank you for your reviews, suggestions and criticism and to express my conviction and what will be visible when our next meeting is analysed when the 2008 report is analysed that the largest part of what you have said here today will be incorporated into the report and will become an integral part of the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. Mr. Vice President, let me just give two grades or two corresponding to the one set through the discussion. As far as the World Bank's credit is concerned, I fully agree with everything said and I would like to inform the Parliament that it is at the stage of designing the first stage of the use of this loan and that, if there is no additional difficulties, almost 50% of the total loan resources will be realised in 2008. And secondly, as regards the activities of the Danish company "Arezza" I would like to make it clear that the Croatian Mine Action Centre has made contact with this company, which during the Croatian Centre has presented development goals and achievements in the use of biotechnology in mine detection and that at no time the Croatian Mine Action Centre has gone beyond the scope of its activities or on the use of GMOs in the Republic of Croatia or on the purchase or purchase of land because these are not issues that the Croatian Mine Action Centre can discuss. If you agree to all the other questions asked, the Croatian Mine Action Centre will be displayed in writing to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9274	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll go through two more points for which no discussion has been reported, and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9275	The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining laundry and spent financial resources for 2007. The report is accepted, the proposal is a conclusion: The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2007. Please, let's get on with it. And let's vote. The result? This report was accepted by 105 votes to six abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9276	This is the 15th item of the agenda. - Proposal for a decision to resolve the former Director and Deputy Director on the appointment of a new Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Personal Data Protection Act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9277	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Government has created material and technical assumptions that a personal data protection mechanism would operate in the Republic of Croatia, and in this context the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has been established and is appointed director and deputy director by this esteemed House. Since the former director and his deputy were able to form the agency, she was managed by staff and material equipment, we have managed to carry out our legal obligation to discharge the office of Mr. Franjo Lacko, director of the agency and Mrs. Biljana Gasparović, deputy director of the agency and to re-name Mr. Franjo Lacko to the director of the Personal Data Protection Agency and Mrs. Biljana Gašparović as deputy director of the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9278	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9279	We move to point 17, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director and Deputy Director on the appointment of a new Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve the former Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. We're voting on a resolution. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The resolution was voted by 100 MPs, with abstentions of 9 and 2 against. And now we vote on the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Please turn it on. It is named Director Franjo Lacko and Deputy Vilena Gasparović. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. I'm asking for a result. Most of the votes were accepted by this proposal, 81 for, 12 abstentions and 18 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9280	I point 16. - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of parts of the so far and the appointment of part of the new members of the Council for Electronic Media, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 59. The Law on Electronic Media is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Nina, Minister of State at the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9281	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. In accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, the Council of Electronic Media shall appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a time of five years. For the initial composition of the council of seven members, two members shall be appointed on time of three years, two members on time of four and three members per time of five years. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media at the meeting held on 30 April 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision appointing members of the Electronic Media Council. By that decision, two members of the Council were appointed at the time of four years and their term of office expired on 30 April 2008 and, therefore, at its meeting on 24 April, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a proposal for a resolution of the current members of the Electronic Media Council for the expiry of the term of office. The government also issued a public invitation on 7 March this year to appoint two members of the Electronic Media Council. 12 candidates received a public call. On the basis of the procedure under the published public invitation at the meeting held on 24 April 2008, the government set out a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the new members of the Electronic Media Council and propose to the Croatian Parliament the appointment of Ljubomer Stefanovic and Marija Udeljak. For the proposed candidates, Ljubomir Stefanovic and Marija Udeljak came to the public call with a view to meeting all the legal requirements. In addition to that proposal for a decision, the government also submitted offers to the Parliament all candidates who made the mentioned public call and proposed that the Croatian Assembly adopt the Decision appointing new members of the Electronic Media Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9282	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of the hearing. I'm closing up. ... So, do the committee's rapporteurs want to? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] They do. On behalf of the Information Committee, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, discussed at its fifth session held on 6 May of this year the proposals for decisions on the resolution of parts of the so far and the appointment of a part of the new members of the Council for Electronic Media, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 24 April this year. The Committee discussed those proposals as a parent working body. In her opening statement, she noted that part of the current members of the Electronic Media Council had expired four years as of 30 April 2008. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore set out a proposal for a Decision to resolve part of the members of the Electronic Media Council so far, as well as a Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the new members of the Electronic Media Council as of 30 April 2008. In doing so, she stressed that one member of the Council proposes to be re-named, while proposing to appoint a new person for another member. The discussion on the committee raised a question which was the motives and criteria of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose the appointment of an old member and not the other. The question was also asked whether talks were held with all the candidates reported. It was answered that the talks were not carried out, and the criteria were published in a public call. The government has decided to propose to appoint the candidates listed on the basis of data visible from the résumés and those it considers to be the best performer of its duties. The members of the Board of the ruling party pointed out that the election procedure was carried out in accordance with the prescribed procedure and supported the proposal for a decision, but the members of the Committee of the opposition opinion are that among other candidates there are those who meet the conditions, and that the government was to hold talks with all the candidates reported. After the debate was held, the Committee first held a vote on a proposal for a decision to resolve part of the Council for Electronic Media and unanimously with 11 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: It supports the adoption of a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It was subsequently voted on a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Electronic Media Council individually for each proposed candidate. For Mrs. Maria, Udeljak voted 7 for, 1 against and 4 abstentions. And for Mr. Ljubomir Stefanovic 10 for and 2 abstentions. Accordingly, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: It supports the adoption of a Decision appointing part of the Council for Electronic Media in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9284	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HNS Club Mr. Representative Goran Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9285	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that the Government has the right to propose a resolution or appointment of members, including the Council for Electronic Media. So that at the principle level is not questionable. Do we have in mind that the European Commission has indicated the need to strengthen the so-called the administrative capacity of the Electronic Media Council, i.e. translated into a more comprehensible language of strengthening the Agency. Then it's more than clear that you need to watch how this job is done. As you know, the law found that the President of the Council is also the Director of the Electronic Media Agency, meaning the first professional in that Agency, a person directly responsible not only for the functioning of the Council but also for the accompanying administrative apparatus. We now have a situation that the government is proposing that the current president of that Council, i.e. the director of the agency, be resolved. And it's nothing weird, nor should it be problematic, if it's clearly said, why it comes to that. Namely, the person who has been the director of the agency so far, or the President of the Council, has expired his mandate and we are in one situation where the applicant has to explain whether, in that term of four years, he has broken some of the rules, whether he may have done something that is not in accordance with the law, regulations, expectations of the Government, instructions and discussions of the Assembly when accepting the annual reports, or actually it is that he has found a candidate who can better respond to such a demanding job as the President of the Council or the Director of the Agency. Let us not forget that the Croatian Parliament, i.e. a number of representatives, had a number of objections to the work of the Council, that in the public on several occasions there were also strong polemics about the indications of corruption about the body, and that this is one substance that is monitored with special care not only in the Croatian media but also in the European mile, or in the public around the European Commission. Which, therefore, has led the Croatian Government to propose that the person to whom the mandate is due one of the two is no longer in this council and that the automated council and the agency remain without a head man, and that it has indicated that Mrs Udeljak, who I will remind her of for many MPs, MPs and MPs, is a famous person because she is a multi-year-old rapporteur for the Croatian news agency HINA from the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, when we asked all these questions, we couldn't get any answers, and among other things we were told that none of these numerous candidates whose résumés and data you received were interviewed. So not with some of them, but with no candidate, so that includes Mrs. Udeljak. It would not be a good idea to make a decision based on a paper review because the old saying that paper suffers anything but simply that those in the government were in charge of having this very important, staffing very important place filled with the best possible candidate have direct insights and references that are being checked in the conversation with the candidate, not insight on the basis of the paper. Because believe me, if we only manage paper then there'll be a lot of good candidates in this country and everyone who answered the public call is just as good. So by nothing, Mrs. Udljak does not stand out from the other candidates, but the government suggests only her, which actually implies that there was a certain agreement. Is it a coincidence that these days, even two people from HINA are entering bodies that are extremely important? One is, one is an electronic media body, the other is a body that monitors the corruption management business I don't know. But it would be good for the government to manifest itself and tell us why the Agency's director is changing so far. I'm sure the government has good arguments, but I'd like to hear them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9286	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the electronic media council is not an irrelevant regulatory body. These are the people who... on concessions, they decide on concessions in penalties for non-compliance with the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is one of the most important regulatory bodies in modern Croatian society. And when it was established we were in favour of establishing and it was good to establish and could act independently of politics. We now have a situation so that, after the term of office, the president of that body is denied his support by the government. And we have a proposal to name this body Mrs. Udljak. What was the procedure? There's been a lot of paperwork on that public call. All of them are respectable, they could have been considered, but on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, we ask the Government's representative how have these offers been considered? Was there a conversation with the candidates? It's not. No one there in the government has had a conversation with the candidates and remains unclear why the government has decided on a candidate and why is she the only one who proposes to the Croatian Parliament? If it is the government's authority to determine who will be there, then no public competitions or democracy should be played. Then let the government propose an amendment to the law so she can appoint it herself and bear responsibility for what she has appointed. But the way he's doing that whole thing about the election, about the competition for that place makes a farce it doesn't make sense. Because you're careful with none of those who suggest, and that's the government who doesn't know how to explain why and why? They say, "This is evident from the data in the biography." Because other biographies are full of great data. There's still a lot of candidates out there. But several times on the Committee, the home committee asked a question from the government's representatives: "Give us an explanation. You may have reasons. Perhaps there is some rational reason why you are proposing this very candidate?" There is no answer. And it can't be, look, when they listen. They haven't met at all. They didn't invite those who were all running for office. No one talked to them at all. What does that mean? This now means that the government through its parliamentary majority, which if it accepts this way of working that the government actually dictates to them the choice of something that the Parliament is in charge of, that this means first one further minorisation of the parliament. The Parliament is then completely irrelevant and irrelevant. And secondly, it shows one, one strange procedure, one strange behavior of the government that gives a bad picture of her work and sends bad messages to other candidates whenever any competition or invitation is opened. This kind of procedure discourages anyone who intends to apply or run for any more serious place because it certainly won't work unless they have an agreement with the government in advance. And if he has a deal with the government, then it's completely irrelevant and what is his biography and what has he done in his life and is he qualified for that place at all or not? Well, please, if the government already wants to name people in key positions but then let them do it autonomously without the Parliament. Don't let it be covered by the Parliament's opinion. And that is why I am speaking to the representatives of the parliamentary majority. Tomorrow will be the government's apology, so it's not us, it's the Parliament's decision. Tomorrow they will be drawn upon you, and they do not know how to explain their proposal at all, and yes, and that in this process they have acted extremely discriminatoryly towards the candidates and precisely offensive to them because they did not even invite them to talk. So I think it would be wise to put an end to this whole procedure. To suspend it, to repeat that public call and to approach the whole business more seriously in view of the importance of the institutions of the Council for Electronic Media, so that we can get an explanation and why the former director was not good, so he is now not renewed and we are given an answer to the question, and why is Mrs. Udeljak if she is why she is the best proposed candidate in the government's view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9288	Thank you. Two corrections Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9289	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations made by my colleague Stazic and say that this proposal from the government delivered to the Parliament is about the deorisation of the Parliament. And I would remind all colleagues and colleagues that members of the Electronic Media Council are appointed by the Parliament on a proposal from the Government. And as long as the law is like that, there's no way to talk about the minorization of the Parliament. This is one thing, and I would like to ask my colleagues to support this proposal because the members of the Electronic Media Council are those who are changing the mandate at the end of April and it is time for the Council for Electronic Media to work in full composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9290	Thank you. Correction Mr. Miroslav Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9291	Thank you, Mr. President. It was said here that it was a public competition. It was not a public tender, it was a public call to which 12 candidates with quality references appeared. However, only two can enter the council. It was also said that no conversation was made. The conversation wasn't necessary by procedure, and it just wasn't done with anyone. So there was no discrimination that there was a conversation with someone, and some were not and it was also said that it was not good for former directors, which is also not true. The former director just expired his term and that's a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-16-0.u9292	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm closing the debate, and now we're going to move to a statement first on the completion of the agenda. Fifteenth, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of parts of the so far and the appointment of a part of the new members of the Council for Electronic Media, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote on the resolution of part of the members. The result? This first proposal was accepted by the majority of votes with 95 for, 7 abstentions and 8 against. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint part of the Council for Electronic Media as proposed by the Government of Mirjana Udeljak and Ljubomir Stefanovic. Please, let's get involved and vote. ... The government has made a joint proposal, not separate. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can vote separately, there are two proposals. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So here's what I suggest we say first and vote on the proposal for Mrs. Maria Udeljak. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. The result? 76 MPs voted for Mrs. Maria Udeljak, 10 were abstentions, 25 against. Next, for Mr. Ljubomir Stefanovic. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? For this proposal, Mr. Ljubomir Stefanovic's votes were 97.8 abstentions and 5 against most votes.
