ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u21632	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here are the honored gentlemen and Mrs. Representatives. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act is currently seeking to enable the introduction of a new energy activity in electricity trade and to enable this activity to be carried out in a transparent manner. The new Gas Market Act will be implemented and new energy activities of natural gas insurance will be attributed as a public service. The structure of energy price regulation and the free energy price structure on the market is also more precise. It is also prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines compensation for organising the gas market itself and also introduces criminal provisions for carrying out activities without authorisation, carrying out energy activities. This sums up briefly what the very changes and additions of the Energy Act speak of. We also accept amendments to the Legislative Committee here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u21633	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs want to take the word of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Dragutin Lesar signed up. He's gone. The others didn't sign up. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Tonight would be the end of today and Monday at 9.30 p.m. we start voting. Some points will be placed on the agenda that we will seek after the vote to discuss but hopefully, at least so, I hope that we may be able to finish on Monday. ... Here's what they're going to put on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations, there is a need for 102 MPs, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan for an emergency medical improvement project. And that's the two of them, but we'll try to discuss and skip the agenda, and that's about demining and the job of insurance employees on demining jobs if we succeed, if we fail, thank God. Monday at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much. And now I ask the presidents of the clubs and vice presidents of the Parliament to meet me in 149 minutes. Thank you very much. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 224. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and became an integral part of the final draft law on the basis of Article 169 and is not voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of votes, 76 votes for, 2 abstentions and 30 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23885	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here after two months of public debate, I can say freely, perhaps the biggest public debate since it is also a reform of the health system and a proposal for reform of the health system, or the laws that are now on your benches and deserve it. First of all, I want to thank all those who participated in this public debate on all the good proposals that we have naturally put in the bill of law. And I especially want to thank the social partners. We're all bloody under the skin, so am I, and I can't say that we don't have yesterday's unanimous support for GSV, social partners of HUP and trade unions, which gives me the right as I said two months ago that this reform and the proposal for this reform is in favour of the patient that patients will certainly benefit most from it and of course it's socially sensitive. I remember two months ago when we came up with a zero day of public debate and because I'm going to say bad communication with the public, where we heard a series of things that sensitized the public in another way that it was health only for the rich, that the poor would have a lot of problems, not to say and not to quote what was said and after two months, that support of GSV, social partners who certainly wouldn't accept it if it wasn't for the reform that I was saying, it certainly does, but it does. After yesterday's support, it is my obligation to contact my social partners about all the important things that will happen in my portfolio, health care and social care, but what gives me hope and what gives me for the right and the optimism that we have been performing with the reform of the health system is also the support of the patient association. And when we bring all this together, then I'm sure that the light at the end of the tunnel is about reform, that is, health care as a whole. I don't mean to say that it's kind of black right now, but we need to make some moves to get the health system back on track again, and I repeat that there's more health care available in favour of the patient and that it's socially sensitive. I am in front of more than 6 thousand people, some in Split there were thousands and a half people in the hall, in Osijek over 1,000 people, in Rijeka over 1200 people, here in Zagreb 1500 people, I wanted to bring this reform with everyone and today I dare say there is no one in Croatia who has not heard and who does not know what this proposal for reform of the health system brings. So once again, thank you all, I'm sorry that the strongest opposition party was not my calculator, it wasn't my political flossula, when I said I'm ready to come to Iblero's square, talk about reforming the health system, because I think that all the good proposals, so if they come out, there's no reason to put them in the debate today as amendments and in the proposals of the health system law. If we do, the government will have about 15 or 20 amendments because the government had to sit on Friday for technical reasons, because the budget is being passed, and only for those reasons because there were still agreements with the social partners we'll have 10 or 15 amendments big for the simple reason that we were in a technical inability to put this right in the proposal for a health system reform. I'll be right here to further explain here in the House, the High House, the Croatian Parliament, I'll show, I'll show this reform through several slides so that maybe it's not all clear to those who don't know everything, but in order to get their hands on it if this isn't socially sensitive reform by showing a few slides. This one slide is actually talking about why we're going into health care reform. Here, look for just a moment, 94, 98, 99, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, etc., etc., what do these picks mean? These 10 picks mean that it's the time when the wholesales blocked the supply of drugs, when the manufacturers stopped the production of drugs, when she threatened to pay, to delay the wages in the health system, and then what happens? A one-time drop in healthcare system debt or one-time intervention from the State budget. But immediately the next day, the health system's debt curve goes back on the upward line. I call this... Inverted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the next "slide" will tell us that we spent about 12 billion kuna in those 19 recoverys. That much budget for health care was around 2000. It seems to me not for health care as a whole but only for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So 12 billion kunas we spent in the recovery of the health system and the drawing of debt in the health system always had a rising character. This "slide" says in 2006 we had a total budget for healthcare of 19.4 billion kuna. In 2007, the new 3 billion kunas increased the budget by 16.25 and then let's look at what happened in that year despite what we've brought into the health system the new 3 billion kunas. In 2007, we again generated a deficit of 2.5 billion kuna. Why? Just because we didn't, it was, but there used to be other times. So it had to be in a certain way, when I mention it in the 1990s and until now I think that the conditions for reforming the health system have matured and why we generated these debts from the 1990s to the next I would dare say because we haven't finished the process of reforming the health system. This is a "slide" that speaks, a famous meeting on Plitvices. 31.3 what did we find? Total debt in the health system 3 billion and 820 million kuna, hospitals two billion and 300, homes of health and polyclinic 380 million kuna, HZZO billion and 600 million kuna. I said that when I was elected to this Croatian Assembly for Minister of Health and Social Care there are many open questions, but I see light at the end of the tunnel and I do not admit that there is something in Croatia today, and I will refer to a health system that we cannot resolve. That's when I said where to go? By 31.3. until new business conditions I told 66 directors, you will all have the same conditions and prove after 6 months your ability or inability to run your health system. By 31.3., hospitals generated a monthly debt of 110 million kuna. Six months later we went to check on each other, I said very bravely on Plitvices. We're gonna stop that debt, and after six months of the hospital's debt system was a billion and 700, round to a billion and 700 million kuna. But he also made it clear that HZZO remains a problem. We can't get caught up with all the open issues in the health system right now. We leave HZZO as a problem to solve at the end of this year, starting next. And that's why we're not running away so the HZZO debt has increased by about 500, 600 million kuna. We didn't hide that dear friends. We said it out loud. It is an open question that we will address at the end of this and early next year which we will address through the reform of the health system. Those who were then saying that the principals, it might not have been convenient at that time to stand behind the principal but who said that directors were delaying the cold program, delaying patients and thus protecting their chair. I said I don't agree to such a qualification, but I'm afraid it can actually happen. "Slide" which says that in the same period from 4 to 7 months last year, compared to last year, we had 217 thousand new reviews in... and 3600 patients. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That was my answer those days to those who said the principals were protecting their chair at the heart of patients, and this slide shows that exactly the new conditions were actually, I'll say so, the wind in the nedra patients, and you'll see later what we did with the waiting list. The aim of the reform is to establish separations. I'm just going to set a few goals, fixed allocations, a fixed rate of separation from the state budget, solidarity, new sources of funding, and here's the last one I'm going to mention. With all the responsibility of the individual for the cost of the health system. I'll say it like this. If it's some kind of imposition we've heard about for a lot of these two months, if it's some new conditions, then it's not just a country that can take care of the individual's health and that individual has to take a part of his risk and, of course, I'm not afraid to say and we need to find the sources of new funding. Why? Here, take a look at this slide. Slovenia, which has recently been mentioned frequently due to the European Union's course, but Slovenia, which has two million people, spent this information from 2006, spent 17.1 billion kuna on the treatment of its citizens. Croatia in 2006, which has more than double population, has spent this billion and slightly less. It says the Slovenians do not have better healthcare than we do here in Croatia. The more I dare say, because we are calling on Slovenia, the deadline is ahead of 60 days. When there is something we want to introduce, then we do not refer to Slovenia or anyone else. But this is the data which therefore says that health care services are available in Croatia today, available to all but warns that we must enter a decisive reform of the health system and of course new sources of funding. This is a slide that says that in Austria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia for all those who are freed and have all the rights and who are free from the payment of participation to be participated for them. Either the state budget or they're on their own. You can see that in Slovenia, 5.7% appear to be pension contributions. Croatia is in red. All of these categories, therefore, pensioners, unemployed, children, social cases have the same rights, but it is unsustainable that these same rights are financed only from 15% of the contributions. Reform, the proposal for reform of these new laws guarantees social sensitivity and guarantees that these groups, of course, I counted that they will be heavily protected and that this reform and this proposal for reform of the health system will not, will not affect the most socially vulnerable categories. When I was talking about new sources of funding, then we have to go first. If you want from the Ministry of Health and Social Care what have we done in the past 10 or two years and what are we going to do in the next period? We have no right, I'll say so, we have no right to go to new sources of funding if we don't arrange the system inside, and if by example we don't show what we've done so that we can go into this kind of reform, that we can create the basis for this reform. 15 items are listed here, which means rationalization and what we did over the past 10 months later, but also in the future. Here's just one slide I'm gonna show you. There was a lot of noise rising around the famous annex contract that Milinovic signed with private polyclinics. But you need to hear this. These polyclinics have had a contract with HZZO for five years, some three to five years. Some three, four and five years. This is the account that gave HZZO five days before the famous annex of the contract, which also led Milinović to be resuscitated. What they promised him was private polyclinics when they agreed. I said, "Here's an open feeling, boys, what's today's situation in Croatia." Some Croatian patient, Croatian citizens also know that the private sector is very concerned about the rights of patients. This is an account of 4,000 kuna who came to collect to HZZO 5 days before the annex of the contract. See if Milinovic introduces new participations. 15% of the participation. That's 600 kuna. That patient paid 600 kuna. After 5 days the same account of course we crossed the name and last name for understandable reasons. Afterwards, the same search came at 1000 kuna. 15% of the participation, not 600, but 150 kuna. But what we got with it. We've got dear friends a space to arrange an additional 3,000 CT and magnet reviews. That's how we got here. I'm going to tell you right now here a couple of data. Let's just say there's no waiting list in Vukovar anymore for CT. If they were in some hospitals, I'd say something later and they'd be cut in half. This, in my opinion, is the heart, the core, the foundation of reform. Primary health care. Everywhere in Europe, primary health care in relation to water checks, I will say so in front of the SKZ except us. It's 3 to 1 to 2 everywhere in favour of primary health care. The seam, placed in primary health care. I was a doctor. Some say, that I heard, I read, that it was a lack of me coming from a small community, and I think it was actually an extra quality, because I was also a nurse, I was a doctor in a village of 200 people, I was a doctor in a lady's hospital, then a headmaster, then a mayor, then a vice president of the Parliament, and now a minister. I think that's my advantage. The seam of why I said that. I was a doctor in primary health care who tamponized, categorized, put stitches on ordinary wounds in primary health care. The stitches placed in primary health care are three times cheaper than the stitches in SKZ actually in hospitals. And that's why I'm saying that the heart is the cornerstone of reforming primary healthcare. First as it is now, let's say for example. We have two doctors who get both. These aren't the figures that are true, but to prove that each gets every 10,000 kuna. So, the one I'm putting on a seam, which I'm categorizing, which I'm washing, which I have to buffer my nose, and I have to spend on that material, and I'm spending 3,000 kuna on the material, I'm left with seven. This other doctor who only sends instructions doesn't have to have that consumable material, doesn't spend 3,000 kunas and out of those 10,000 kunas he's got 10,000 kunas left. This is the heart of the reform of primary health care. The one, these are isolated homes of health, HZZ and group practice first, the first this column as it is now not able to invoice the primarys nor the home of health, nor the HZZ, nor the group, based on group practice. Those doctors aren't gonna tell you who's not working, they're gonna tell them who's working in a way that's gonna burden the hospital system. These 60% data are a fixed rate which, the mains will no longer be in the 100 percent amount, but in 60 percent. But we're not going to start with 60% right now. We're going to be very careful not to burden additional primary health care to get into some kind of trouble. We'll start with probably 90, 80% fixed separation. But a team that will act after this reform in a way that burdens the primary SKZ, i.e. hospitals, will receive 60% of the fixed capital at the end of next year. Those who fully commit themselves to a patient such as yourself mentioned earwashing and stitches and categorization and a series of tests and diagnostic procedures that can be conducted in primary healthcare will be able to further invoice this to both health homes and HZZO and they will be able to earn up to 18% more. Those who will say try a little bit and beyond their working hours, little and above the standard, they will be able to earn up to 58% more. What do we want in primary health care? Put the patients first. If my patient is satisfied as a primary, I'll be able to earn 18% more. If the patients who are going to bake among the primates, that's about ten percent more satisfied with the shift, than with someone else, I'll be able to earn up to 58%. The next slide says what in financial terms is the difference between Team A, B and C. Tim A, look at this bottom one. So this is at 1700 patients now given the conditions of financing primary health care gets 362000 kuna I will say that or write the instructions or devote myself to the patient. He's left with 360, he's got 362000 kuna. That fixed amount of 1.1 forgets. Team A, which will burden the KKZ, hospitals, they will receive 215 at year level instead of 362000 kuna. Team B 408, team C 547 and now the difference between team A and team C is 331000 kuna. Which is 331000 kuna. It's the patient's pleasure. The recipient whose patients will be satisfied will be able to stimulate effective work in primary health care. This data that says that over the next year, we will decentralise how to lower fixed capital from 90 to 60% in this way we will decentralise resources to homes of health and counties. I am, opposed to decentralisation of the formal-law founding hospital county. When it's good, then it's the mayors who score. When it's wrong, where the government, where the minister is, because they're guilty, they need to settle their debts. I also said we'd be dealing with debts in the county even though we're not founders. And over the past 10 months, we've been very helpful to the county hospitals whose, uh, we've found space whose government is not the founder. But look at this information, maybe it will best show what we want to do in primary health care. 435 million kunas over a year will be decentralised and through this insurance of the implementation of preventive programmes. Now I'm going to ask you here, if there's anyone who can answer me, if he hasn't been to the doctor for a year to call him and say, please check in, to do basic tests as a precautionary examination. I think that's it, I'm going to say this very few people have experienced it. But today in the contract with HZZO primary health care, it says they are obliged to do these preventive checks. We're not in control, we don't have the system of opportunity to control it now, but I'm paying it neatly. In this way we will decentralise 435 million kunas and preventative programmes that 18% will be able to get, but if they implement these preventive programmes, and preventive programmes will bring the county and there we will establish a health advice where all civil society will be able to say what is best, let's say for Lika-Senj County if it appears, I don't know the increased incidence of prostate cancer, then the home of health has the possibility of setting up a dispensary in a particular county that will deal with a particular problem in that county. It is decentralisation, but not only formal-legal, but also 435 million kunas of fiscal decentralisation, and then it is a clear strong message that we strengthen primary health care, strengthen health homes, strengthen prevention and thus reduce the burden of the hospital system, which means 3 times the price. The information of primary healthcare after the signing, very soon we will go to the public tender informing primary health care, a very important segment, for a year and a half, or after signing the contract for a year, and therefore somewhere in a year and a half, this must be the only paper in primary health care. With this patient or his doctor will have all the information on this so-called The smart card and the patient without paper will go to the pharmacy and the pharmacy will have the same card and get everything that belongs to him through that card. This is the information of primary health care. As far as the hospital system is concerned, we're introducing a DTS payment system. This is the information that speaks of a service that should be paid in Croatia from Dubrovnik to Zagorje. If you fly 10 liters of gasoline into Dubrovnik today, it should be, as far as INA is concerned, the same price either in my Gospić, Sibenik, Zadar, Zagreb, Vukovar, the price of gasoline is the same. It's like that everywhere except in health care. The birth of a single, uncomplicated birth where a woman stays in a hospital for 3 to 4 days in one hospital, I didn't deliberately mention here the name of the hospital that we don't call each other and let's not today in the debate look for who's to blame, who led to this because we were, because we were in power, and you were in power, too, and I think this debate should be directed towards the future. But this is the data that says hospital A, B and C, and I didn't want to mention what hospitals are that I don't call myself, somewhere that birth costs nearly six thousand kuna, and here at hospital C 3500 kuna. I think we need to break up with that. It's a DTS system. This blue book, often a large stone of confusion in hospital health care, and generally in health care. This is a blue book that's been in the hospital system since 1.1. It's a thing of the past. The accounts, this birth difference between one hospital and another, means this blue book, because here for diabetes, I think that's what diabetes says, then you invoice the code, I don't know E.10, then the nurse doesn't see that it says look at page 211 so list 211, so then we know doctors that this diabetes often goes with retinopathy or kidney dysfunction. Well, then he doesn't see that he's looking at the sub-division of that sub-division, and that's how the HZZO accounts are invoiced. Or not so often happens in hospitals that the patient says you know, Doctor, I'm fine, and then you as a doctor say, well let's have another day, two more. Why? Because it's additionally costing 400 kunas as if you're a little bit of a control over that patient, which is an additional 400 kuna invoice to HZZO paid by those who single out 15%. From 1.1. to stop. We will say that the birth is 4 thousand kuna and it will be in Dubrovnik and Split and Zagreb and Sibenik and in Zadar and all of Croatia 4 thousand kuna. But the invoice we're going to send to HZZO is over, that blue book, if you're going to write a correct account, you have to spend 20 minutes writing. From the 1st stop, this electronic form, what will look like to the DTS system, what that invoice will look like, it's over in a minute, a minute and a half. We can move on. Of course, the way you pay patients who are in intensive care, intensive treatment are more expensive and they will be paid according to a special model. The establishment of financial administrations of the health system at regional and national level. We have cases where in a particular county we have several hospitals and when they go, we'll say in some supply, then they get each of their own devices or for one county the same device gets three hospitals. We go to a united procurement and at the county level, of course and at the state level, and united procurement itself means ten percent immediately at the start of saving somewhere at 200 million kuna in terms of purchase, public procurement last year. Diseases are a special story in Croatia. As if by law they're defined, often you hear I go to the doctor to take two days of sick leave because I have to, I don't know how to paint the house. That's what we heard. 185 thousand people are on sick leave for a year. Between 1 and 5 years 16 thousand, and about 300 over 5 years. Today's sick, actually this is a slide from last year, costing 2 billion and 300 million kuna, and it's been divided into half, half-employees, half-states. Ten months ago, the rate of sick leave in Croatia was 4.2%. Just a few, I'll say so many cuts where we replaced some committees, where we showed that we were determined. We replaced some commissions, reduced the rate of sick leave from 4.2 to 3.57%, but what's important is that we saved 230 million kunas. Where are the 230 million kunas? On particularly expensive medications. I will insist in the future, and in particular, I said my responsibility is greater than I got the support of the social partners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all those who participated in the proposal for this reform of the health system, yesterday received the support of the social partners that it commits. We will persist on, let him understand however anyone wants, with a sharp hand, with a sharp management, and that is this rate of sickness, and in this way we are, you know that last year for particularly expensive medicines there were 250 kunas, next year 510 million kunas for more than 100% Croatian state takes care of these difficult fates and don't give God to anyone that he has to have 30 thousand kunas for a particularly expensive medicine, if not, then God knows what's going on. The Croatian state takes care of it. As for the sick, 18 months, we agreed yesterday with the social partners, I accepted their suggestions and protected some groups. 18 months will be continued and sickness benefits as they have so far. After 18 months of 50% and after 3 years, this status must be resolved, but of course this does not apply to malignant diseases, dialysis and transplanted patients or patients waiting for a transplant. That way we save 350 million kunas. As regards the rationalisation and consumption of medicinal products, slide 1 which speaks enhanced or in financial terms, the standard, or prescription drugs in the European Union at an annual level, increases between 8 and 10%. I'll only point to two figures here. In 2003, look, no one can say that the Croatian nation became so sicker, it grew in 2003 by 25%. We've lifted only one small mechanism of control of it, 5 kuna per prescription. As soon as we shut it down, it immediately increased drug consumption by 25%. I went to the Croatian Institute of Public Health to see that something was not happening with the health of the Croatian population. No, of course not. That year we were healthier because the average duration of life in Croats was on the rise. So we're just that mechanism. But in order to stabilize the situation, we introduced drug reference prices and look at 2007 it's another savings. And we hit the spot with this -0.35% because we had drug reference prices and as a unit, the lowest price and from that lowest price 10% down. That's why we saved 200 million kunas. Look at one medicine that cost 53 kunas in 2004, today it costs 24 kunas, 54% cheaper. And here's another 553 kuna, pressure medicine, now 300 kuna, 46% cheaper. That's how we saved 200 million kunas. This information that I mentioned earlier for particularly expensive drugs, you see we planned 400 million kunas. But this proposal and all the projections of the state budget and these savings we've been talking about will not be 400 but 510 million kuna, you see where the competition came out, in which the paper issued a tender for particularly expensive medicines. In this way the state for the benefit of these patients is denied margins, because we are taking care, until then some have been taking a margin on this, we have said in these particularly socially sensitive categories of people who suffer from such diseases, there is no margin, no one in Croatia will earn money. The Croatian state will give up the margin and thus save 50 million kuna. This is a verifiable data, copy this table, and we can see you in a year. The rationalization of what I mentioned and some others, but I don't have time to talk so much, is over the next 10 months and the next is about 2 billion and 100 million kunas. Now that I've said that we need to make arrangements in the system from the inside to go outside and new sources of funding. Now this is the information when you go secure the car and pay for the insurance from the car crash. What does that mean? When God forbid you get hurt in the car then your treatment and your sick leave has to pay for your insurance company. 4395 patients reportedly have major injuries, which is last year's data. Treatment costs Croatia 200 million kuna. That 200 million kuna must pay their insurance company, those 200 million kuna dear friends, not 200 but 160 or 150 million kunas pay the state budget and that should not pay 15% of those who separate for health care. If that weren't the case anymore, then we're going to have Schucker's law so you'll probably hear either Monday or I don't know today, we're going to go on, this is 10% on the charged actually charged gross premium and that way we're going to get about 170 million kuna. I'm joking, and I'm saying that we're also going to be involved in judicial reform because hospitals are in disputes, 2600 disputes are with insurance companies, and we've been erasing these 2600 disputes since 1.1, so I say we're taking part in judicial reform. It contributes to pensions, contributions to the unemployed, it's the same Shucker law, I'll mention it. It is 5% on minimum wage and will be paid by the Croatian Employment Service. Participatory, says Milinovic, introduces new participations. That's not true. We cannot send, if we want to succeed, I want this reform of the health system to be a joint project. I want to, and I believe in success, I want to share it with everyone in Croatia who wants to. Of course, responsibility is on me as a minister if it doesn't work out, but you wouldn't dare insist this much. Some say you're too brave today, I know that today may be the biggest burdensome factor in this reform, that it was easier to spend a year or a half ago when the gross domestic product, or economic growth, was 4-5%. I know. But this is our common greater challenge today. What a crisis from America has passed on to the world and to Europe, today it requires us as an imperative to reform the health system, because if we do not, we can expect further difficulties in the health system. But Milinovic says he introduces new participations. Participations existed in Croatia in the former Yugoslavia and when Croatia was left alone, participation... 15 to 50%. [[You don't understand.]] You can see down there that we're removing the participation for haemodialysis. The highest participation is three thousand kunas. They all stuck to those 3,000 kunas. Why is that? Slide speaking, look at this red, participation now under the current law, don't give God to someone with lung cancer, so he has to remove one lung. Now under the current law, participation is 4.140,00 kuna, according to a new proposal for reform cannot be greater than 3,000. Installation, open heart surgery. Today according to current law verifiable, let us check together, is participation 4.020,00 kuna, according to the new 3.000,00 kuna. And we have the last, don't give God to anyone, some kind of comatose state, so let's say they don't wake up from that comatose state of participation today under the current laws of 10.800,00 kuna on the proposal for reform of the health system 3.000,00 kuna. That's why it's the upper limit, to protect social categories, but also the most painful ones. Now imagine the family that after 6 months to whom someone from the family must pay an additional 10.800,00 kuna, that is why we wanted to prevent it and that is why the upper limit of 3.000,00 kuna is. And participation in primary health care is another element that has been given to some, and I explained in Croatia that it has nothing to do with the administrative fee and whether it is human to say that the administrative fee was the wrong thing. Ostojić laughs, but I'm not afraid to say that we were wrong in that part, but this 15 kuna participation has nothing to do with the administrative fee. Now, look, participation isn't paid in patronage health care, home care, emergency medical attention, sanity transportation. Why is he yellow? Because she was paid an administrative fee. Preventive and specific health care of school children, youth and students. But the next slide that speaks, look, this 15 kuna participation won't pay a million and 6 grand 579 kuna. These 115 thousand workers who have a censorship below 2000, about 1900 kuna. 355,000 pensioners, 30,000 Croatian wartime wartime invalids, 505,000 others. You all, unemployed, students... Everyone had to pay you that administrative fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I ask you, is 15 kuna an administrative fee? No, because a million and 6 thousand people will not pay these 15 kunas, and those others who will pay a hospital of 50 kuna will cover all participations. Another important item. 15 kuna to be paid as a participation in primary health care, part of it will return to the system. The sister will not be the administrator as she was in the administrative fee and it all went into the state budget. Part of these funds will be returned to primary health care. I'll tell you the information now. Those primarys who take their patient's blood out in their infirmary and keep the test tube in their infirmary, organized transportation has that the patient doesn't have to go to Rebro alone in waiting for an additional two days. Such primates will receive 3,000 kuna a month. It's a reform of primary health care, it's an incentive of effective work. Recipes, same information. A million and 6,000 people had to pay for the participation. So, you came to primary health care, you paid 30 kuna. You say I have an extra insurance policy. The answer is, we don't care because you have to pay that administrative fee. Today's supplemental insurance policy, I will say only for pensioners, of millions and 66 thousand, a million and 44 thousand is an unchanged condition. You've got a health insurance policy, a zero-participation policy. The pediatrician is of course zero and the next slide says what I've explained to you so far. Additional health insurance all participations, including primary health care, tertiary, hospital system, all participations in Croatia are zero. This is the information that says what we think and what I'm going to suggest about the supplemental insurance policy. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. For a workday, I have a fever, I apologize, so I need some water. So, for a million and 516 thousand workers, for a million and 101 thousand 276 are not changing terms. Like so far, 80 kuna shelves in HZZO. Who's changing the terms? For those who have a salary above the average salary. Today she's about 5108 kuna. Above that, they will collect an extra insurance policy at 130 kuna. And this first imposition, I don't think it's an imposition, that this is a risk, 600 kuna, but at an annual level. What does this mean, 2.5? If someone smokes 20 packs of cigarettes, it means 17.5 boxes, 2.5 cartons of cigarettes a month less, you overpaid your supplemental health insurance policy. As for the pensioners, for a million and 66 thousand, for a million and 46 thousand the same terms as before. For what new terms? For those who have a pension of over 5,000, over the average salary, 5100 and some kuna, that you don't take your word for it now. For them, new conditions, for them only 20 thousand 360 kuna a year. I will compare it again with a pack of cigarettes because I will also participate in the promotion that as few people smoke in Croatia as we lose through these diseases as many as 15 thousand people at the annual level. That's why I'm mentioning a cigarette. One pack of cigarettes less, the pensioner subscribed to his supplementary insurance policy. Preferred pensions, they will rise from 50 to 130 kuna or annually at 960 kuna level. Now I'll tell you, that's what people need to hear, here's the vice president of the Parliament I was if I retired, I have a pension of 7, 8 I don't know how many thousands of kunas and I'd be socially protected, I'd pay 50 kuna in HZZO. My friend who works or your friend who works in a utility company, who targets the road has 2500 kuna, he's not socially protected, he's paid 80 kuna so far. I don't think there's any difference between me and myself, because if we don't change something and I'm one of those, there's no difference in being just a pensioner's status gives you a privileged status in HZZO and you pay 50 kuna. Croatian military disabled 30 thousand 576 pays all participations in the Croatian budget, children 836 thousand also covers all costs...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23886	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23887	State budget. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23888	Five more minutes. If you can finish it, five more minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23889	Here, a few more minutes. Well, that's it. 4 million 437 thousand 460 residents, 4 million 1122 the same conditions, new conditions as I said about 416 thousand those who have a salary above 5200 or 5100 and something for 20 thousand pensioners who have a pension of over 5100 and some kuna. This isn't my law, but I'll mention it, we're also introducing pension contributions up to 1%, up to the average salary, up to 5100 and some kuna, 108 kuna, 1% will pay the state budget. Over 5108 kuna pensioners 3% and that means that the state budget pays for 94, almost 95% of pensioners contribute, and 50 thousand will pay for those who have a pension above 5108 kuna, so 5% of them will bear the costs themselves or from pensions. And another slide that says the one who pays the 50 kuna policy goes into tax relief, at the end of the year gets back 106 kuna, so it's not the 50 kuna policy, it's 40 kuna. We are going to the largest shelf, I will propose it to the Croatian Institute, the Governing Council of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, 130 kuna. In the end, it goes into tax relief, gets 276 kuna returns, which means that the supplemental insurance policy is not 130 but 100 kuna. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. And this is the bottom line. Working active for a million and 101 thousand do not change, policy 80 kuna, all participations, from primary, all levels, zero for pensioners for a million and 46 thousand, over 95% of them do not change the terms, shelf 50 kuna, participation of zeros. Therefore, costs will be covered in the hospital and primary health care care of Croatia's state budget for a million and 6 thousand people. I'm going to repeat once again 115 thousand persons working 355,000 pensioners, 30,000 Croatian wartime invalids and 505,000 others, because there was information that students will have to pay for participation, and here we see that they won't. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Why did we go to such a wide public debate? When we're zero, the day we bring out the words, the first day of this reform, for the sake of misunderstanding, and the media, and those who say that they didn't want this reform to succeed, they spread disinformation. Then we can freely say established two months ago as some crisis headquarters at the Ministry of Health worked 24 hours a day and went to Croatia to say what I'm saying here today, which is a health system reform. Yesterday's and yesterday's data encouraged me to succeed, is this of course not at the scientific level, but it is the data that 56% of citizens support the proposal for a reform of health system 32 against. The following data suggests that the fifth graded 36 in "Free Dalmatia" by 36% in four, 23%, so four, five, 59% of citizens evaluate with four and five of these reforms. That's one piece of information that says we did it. That we have managed to sensitize the Croatian public and explain that there is no burden of great as some have said, that this reform of the health system does not bring in any new sources of funding, that it should also be said to Croatian citizens. But to some of the distractions that are impossible not. That we are socially sensitive means for a million and 800 thousand people all participations will cover the state budget. Dear friends, I am convinced of this, more health reform. Maybe during the debate, I'll give you some information. Here's the Clinical Hospital Center, here's the River, check it out. 850 people were waiting for Stent's for that rescue installation, those who had a heart attack. 850 a month and a half ago. Do you know how many today? 300. They tell me by the New Year there won't be a waiting list for the Stents. The KBC "Split" 3 thousand 123 patients waited for a variety of searches up to New Year's Eve that the waiting lists were gone. It's our joint success. This is the information that we have prepared the ground for reforming the health system and that is the information that says that the reform has been under way for the past ten months. I am convinced that the reform is for more health. Some say we're brave. We did. This government is brave, the ruling coalition is brave and courageous in this reform of the health system. Maybe at the most difficult moments with financial conditions in Europe and the world, maybe, but we're bravely going into it. As dear friends, many said we were too brave when we went into the creation of the Croatian state. Yeah. We were brave enough to win the Croatian state. Yes, this coalition government is brave and will achieve this reform. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23890	Thank you very much, Minister. We have one correction, MP Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23891	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, there were a lot of incorrect allegations. That's what we'll do in the debates. But I still have a few to say. Therefore, it is clear that there is an incorrect assumption that a public debate on health reform is being held in Croatia, because the public debate includes written material and the possibility of saying something, and these large gatherings where thousands of people have been said by the minister, they were told in advance that they cannot ask questions. As hard as the minister has tried to say that he is not introducing new participations, in primary health care, new participations are being introduced, and nurses are once again becoming cashiers who will not be able to deal with the work they have been trained for. The directors have not spared, says the minister. That's not true. A number of the directors told their department heads that they could not issue expensive medications, which was witnessed by patients in public on television and newspapers. The man sold the house, the land because the hospital wouldn't give him the money for the medicine he was supposed to get. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23892	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23893	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister and the Ministry's representatives. In the parent body, the committee discussed all these three laws united, so I will read the conclusions of the united debate. As members of the committee argued at the beginning of the debate, health reform is necessary because of the needs created in the entire health system, and the National Strategy for Health Development, which the Croatian Parliament adopted in 2006, is a fundamental element for the implementation of this comprehensive reform. However, the current social and economic conditions caused by the global financial crisis have set certain frameworks for this reform. The proposed solutions are, however, a significant step towards establishing a financially stable system, which will be rational and effective with the quality of providing health services provided. The implementation of the reforms must, with the basic objective of improving the quality and availability of health services to all categories of inhabitants, include the social component of the system and in particular take care of socially sensitive groups of society. The committee members assessed the quality shifts of the legislation-proposed solutions, which should ensure the objectives of the reform set. The primary health care is strengthened by positioning the home of health, as a basic health care provider at the primary level, with the aim of providing health care as much as possible to prevent, preserve and improve health. The health system shall be subject to concessions for the provision of health care at the primary health level. In accordance with decentralisation of powers, the concession for the provision of this public service is granted by the County, and such a model will contribute to strengthening primary health care and the position of entities providing public health services based on concession. It is based at the level of the County Health Alliance, which will plan and develop health care in the area of the regional self-government unit with the participation of other projects. The reorganisation of the emergency medical care system implies the transfer of the system from the health care homes to a special institution at both state and county levels. The establishment of a health care institution quality commission, with the application of the Health Services Quality Act, will undoubtedly contribute to raising the quality and services provided by the Quality and Accreditation Agency. As regards the Health Insurance Act in the debate, it is pointed out that to improve the existing situation in the health financing system and create conditions for the next parts of the reform, it is necessary to establish financial stability of the system and to reorganise the system of financing and paying for health services. In addition to the planned increases in budgetary allocations for health programmes, new sources of funding are foreseen. The existing system of participation of insured persons in health care costs is also improved through supplementary health insurance and participation. The insured person is personally involved in health care costs. The amount of health care costs that the Croatian Health Insurance Office does not fully cover through participation or through voluntary supplementary health insurance. As it has repeatedly been pointed out during the debate in improving the health care financing system should be set aside from the constitutional provision of the Republic of Croatia as a social state, especially taking into account the socially sensitive groups of the population and their needs. Accordingly, the provisions of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which determine the categories of insured persons covered by the State budget, shall be supported. At the end of the broad debate, it was stressed that the overall measures proposed by these laws are a major step in implementing the reform. However, for more permanent stabilisation and the establishment of a long-term health system, other parts of the reform will need to be launched. In this part, it will be crucial to isolate the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and System of the State Treasury and part of health services due to disproportionate price increases in health services as the budget rises will have to be placed on the market. The proposed part of the reform and quality step and is consistent with existing economic developments as well as with the reorganisation of health systems in Europe. After the debate, the members of the board adopted all three proposed laws with one vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23894	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate first. One more time, I note, given that the three laws have been united, the club debate will take 20 minutes. First, it's a SDP club that has been reported two for discussion. First, she's a respected representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23895	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Here, I will since the debate is united look a little more at the Health Insurance Act and health care will fellow Ostojić. In the 2007 pre-election campaign, we remember well that HDZ will not introduce new taxes. But what is this that is being introduced today in health care? Nothing but an unfair and shameless tax. The reform announced by Minister Milinovic is nothing more than a bad attempt to patch up the budget gap. This law makes it clear that the government has inserted it into speed 5 but only when it comes to hitting citizens' pockets. Interestingly, this is still a coalition government, and just as we remember HDZ statements that they will not impose new taxes, we also remember that HSS and HSLS were very harsh against the impose on health care in the campaign. But it was obviously forgotten at the moment when she sat down in a comfortable chair. It is clear that health care, every health care is expensive. By introducing new technologies, new diagnostic options can only be more expensive, not equal price or cheaper. Employees already allocate not a small amount of their salaries for health care, but somehow we all consider this separation as something acceptable and normal as a reflection of solidarity with unemployed, pensioners, children. But the problem is that we simply have too few employees in Croatia, or too few who can give for health care, and now new sources of funding have to be found. And now, what fascinating ideas have come to pass? I'd say in their heads the thought sequence was next. In the '90s, we did our best to drive people into retirement, either as politically inadequate or destroying jobs in a privatized robbery. People who left so prematurely in retirement didn't make enough contributions, didn't give enough for their country, and some of them only worked 20 years. Let's get them to pay now that they're retired. So, these people, in the middle of the labor force, the disgraced went into retirement. And that wasn't enough, but now they still have to pay. Instead, energy is invested in creating new jobs and thus increasing the number of people who will pay for the government's contribution is investing energy to take as much of the existing workers as possible and is now introducing pensioners into the story. But not just any workers and pensioners. This reform will, of course, be the most felt by those who are sick because they will already receive money from the doctor of family medicine from their necks for inspection, prescription and every single intervention. Not to mention what is just happening if this review is not enough or if there is a need for additional diagnostics and additional treatment. This clearly points to one thing, there is no sign of reciprocity, solidarity and equality mentioned in Article 2 of this Law. The only thing is equal to the amount insurance companies need to pay if they use a health care service and it has nothing to do with equality because it is not the same to pay a man who lives out of 2.5 thousand or 6 thousand kuna recipe or reviews for 100 or 200 kuna. What I'm saying is very likely to make people avoid a wide port of health and hospital homes and come to a doctor only if what they say gets to their throats. But that won't make our government sad either. On the contrary, it will meet a very important goal defined in the National Health Development Strategy, which says to limit the growth of health costs. So it's incredibly crafty. This law introduces another newspaper. As of 1 January, insurance companies will be able to own the part of the contribution and decide on one of the private insurance. Private insurance companies certainly do not wait for the open arms of those who have three chronic diseases, who have eight types of medicines and are on search and treatment every once in a while. It certainly won't tell them that, we know that you spend 2,000 kuna a month on health care services, and you pay a hundred kuna policy a month and don't worry about your treatment and the costs are completely in our hands. On the contrary, they will, of course, go to those who are working and healthy, who pay and do not spend. So the state gives up directly to those who are thus conditionally the most rewarding. It gives their money to privates and, of course, the state loses. You have to say the right name for it, it's nothing but tycunization of health care. After tycunisation in an economy that we know is, what it has brought to our country, it is finally going to tycunisation of health in order to do what is left and what is going relatively well. As our government behaves, I'd compare it to the cancer in the organism, it spreads around the body looking for new organs, attacking one by one, and when it exhausts everything that the organism one has, it collapses. When an administrative fee was introduced, or a tax on disease, we thought it couldn't be worse, and then the government was very brave in introducing that tax. But here we hear today that they finally realize that it was a bad move. This is how it was realized that this, this harras, collected three hundred million kunas and the budget gap is multiplely higher. The minister long announced the reform, saying only 5% of the reforms would apply to finance and the rest to structural reforms. This bill says exactly the opposite, it all comes down to money, so the next reform could perhaps be better pictured by the finance minister or the HDZ could introduce one innovation so that the health minister no longer becomes a doctor but a skilled financier. What stings the most is that you've come up with what it should cost, and at the same time no package of services has been proposed that would be free of charge for everyone. It would be a minimum that the government is required to ensure that citizens feel so much security if they get sick that they don't have to sell the house. But the government was obviously not ready to give up the lip that could be taken by the citizens, even if it meant that they would have to, therefore, make drastic moves to treat themselves. Because of all of this, it's clear why the minister, I'm joining what my colleague Dr. Jovanovic, presenting the reform, therefore, was not a debate on reform, but a presentation of the reform without the possibility of participating, asking questions and discussions, therefore, a presentation with slides on which it could, as far as I'm concerned, be a gas bill as small letters are. So obviously there was no desire or will to hear what the public thinks about this reform. But apparently the minister will have to meet here today with what the opposition thinks and thus a good part of the Croatian public. I wouldn't look back at insurance anymore, I'd just like to say a little bit more about primary protection since I'm coming out of it. Namely, if this reform is as ideal as the minister presents it, then I really don't understand why my colleagues in primary health care are so afraid of the reform. Namely, they have a daily frequency if they have 1700 charts, which is a good pay for both the sister and the doctor, so a good number of charts that enables a decent life, the daily frequency in general medicine offices is about 70 people, so I wonder when these people will sew wounds, place catheters and all other interventions, which are expected to earn their minimum wage. Also, as for calling for preventive checks, I'm going to give you a concrete example, and I talked to a colleague who told me that she pulled 28 patient files out of her file that hadn't been reported in over a year, invited them to a little systematic checkup, responded to six people, 5 of which signed that she didn't want a checkup, so she only examined one. I wonder how doctors are going to get patients, whether they're going to be given the basic kits they use in terms of headphones, otitiss, caves, and cuffs to bring in patients and make them do preventive examinations. I don't understand how doctors are going to earn those 40% wages just to be on that salary that was so far, let alone what the minister says, that they're going to earn 58, or I don't know how many times, because they pay more. So we can't support this reform, absolutely, and this bill can't support it, nor do we want to bear responsibility for everything it carries, and I'm sure it's not a success.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23896	Thank you very much. The first part's over. Let's go to part two, Honorary Representative Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23897	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. You may have misunderstood, I apologize, if I said so, but the vice president thought. [[I'm sorry, Vice President.]] My colleagues and colleagues, in a way of passing health laws in the Parliament for the last three years, nothing new. It's always the same scenario, always the same pattern. The minister, the minister of the past term was Vice-President of the Parliament, and he certainly remembers it very well, but let me remind the public. So the last three laws were passed by the same scenario. The Parliament's last week is an emergency procedure and a transfer of funding to the burden of citizens. I completely agree with what Mr. Secretary said, the data stream is verifiable and mine. In July 2005, an emergency procedure, an administrative fee introduced, as Mr. Minister said, taxes on disease. In July of the following year, the introduction of two drug lists and a unilateral decision to exclude medicinal products from the supplementary insurance policy. We passed July 2007 because there were elections, but apparently December 2008 comes. Again the same scenario, the same pattern, it's an emergency procedure and it's being introduced definitely, and I think it's a very clear participation in primary health care, meaning participation in primary health care. So in 2005, 2006, we were lucky to escape, in 2008, I'm afraid it's going to happen in July or December 2009, and I don't think that's good. It is not good because health care concerns all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it is very important that we have a public debate or at least the first and second readings here and not in an emergency procedure because it is a colleague and colleagues, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister is not well, it is not fair, it is not fair and it is verifiable. The news is a united debate. At the 9th month of the 8th law, we united the 4th. So not only is it the same scenario, we're uniting everything together, next time we don't even have to answer. Just send, and we'll, it's not democracy to pay, or we won't pay, Mr. Board President said the result was 6:1, one against, it was me, of course. So, 7, I apologize, Mr. President of the Board. So the emergency procedure, behind it, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, inevitably brings a series of mistakes, a series of tipfelers, a series of changes. If Mr. Minister had said there would be 15 amendments to the government, is that inevitable? So, every one of us doing the wrong thing, so do I. So, but why? That's why there's a normal democratic procedure, first reading, second reading, to have written and clear laws, not to be ashamed of Europe, not to change amendments, not to change every two, three months of laws. It's exhausting us. So let it be the next law, and he will come very soon, trust me, very quickly to be first and second reading. My colleague Gordana was talking about health insurance. I'll just have a brief on health care. That's two news. Repositioning of home health or the introduction of concessions for so-called tenants in the concession. Concessions will do the headship. So... will be in a time period of 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at the same time, it is being arranged and realised the right of their incomes not only on the basis of services but on the basis of what the minister said outside of the contract. And I've worked happily for four years in family medicine and it's a great job. That's a great job. And sewing wounds and the first two hospitals were 100 kilometers away. The director controlled me every day how many ambulances I've sent and who goes through the hospital's work is "peace of the cake". But for those 200 diagnosiss I've been doing, sewing, and so on, I've had clinical guidelines, I've had education. Today, our doctor, unfortunately, does not have that knowledge among other things because clinical guidelines have been destroyed. There are 3,000 entities in medicine, and 200 diagnosiss are carried out every day in the family medicine office. And for these 200 diagnosis states should be given adequate means. Emergency medical attention is a novelty in health care. Unfortunately, the mortality rate is 3 times higher in Croatia than in the European Union. The percentage of disability and morbidity and mortality is very high. I would recommend that, of course, the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute be opened immediately, but they seduce the emergency medicine Mr. Minister by county I see, I think it's written for 3 years, it would be wise and good if this period can be shortened to 6 to 12 months if it is possible precisely for the percentage of mortality and disability. Health care, health care institutions from Article 47 to Article 111, unfortunately, and here we have again made a few tipfelers and, for example, in article 100, Mr. Minister, if you do not have that amendment, I ask you to introduce it. There are no public health care offices in the County for Croatian defenders. You spoke very nicely of Croatian defenders earlier but in the article you dropped the Public Health Service, taking care of Croatian defenders, so if you have no amendment I give it to you, I will give it to you because, as you did in 1991, you were at war and I was at war in 1991. Ante Kotromanovic will talk about the war. Probably you, like me, have in the booklet of the RPZNG, the National Guard Assembly, and now, and now we don't have it in the law. And there are 500 thousand defenders. But there aren't 500 grand of us. We're not here. And that's why that number comes for payment. It comes to be charged through benefits and therefore needs to increase the state budget and shift burden financing to health citizens. So the same scenario in 2005 administrative fee, 2006, two drug lists, 2008 participation that was discussed by my colleague Borzan. And that's why it's very important to repeat it. The health care law I said very quickly in three, four minutes, so I'm going to look back at the Health Insurance Act to say that there is a clear introduction of participation, which wasn't before, into primary health care. The primary, no, I'm not saying you didn't say. That's all I want to stress. 15 kuna participation is being introduced. But no restrictions. The administrative fee was a limit of 30 kuna. You don't pay 31 kuna, and this is how every time you go to a doctor, every time you go to get a prescription, you have to give 15 kunas. So there's no limit. No time limit, no limit, and that's not good. And you'll feel it very, very soon. An increase in supplemental insurance policies. It is true, by 413 thousand of our citizens above 5108 kuna, then the shelf will rise to 130 kuna and that is adequate for their status. But why, and you mentioned car insurance why two thousand and, I don't know, six years off the shelf are excluded drugs. So the helmet insurance was no longer valid for drugs, which is, of course, conditionally said, a unilateral decision. Our men are burned. So today, only 14% of our citizens pay extra insurance. So it's not a question, it's not a question... These patients will need insurance, but why does 86% of Croatian citizens not pay health insurance? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the point. Why? Because they had a whole series of changes. And eventually the pensioners. There are several university professors, Professor Hebrang, Professor Selem, Professor Jurcic, Professor Ivo Josipovic and I. You said, "I will have a pension as a regular university professor of 7 thousand kuna, as a parliamentary representative perhaps 7 and a half, 8. ". So we didn't profit too much. Give us, give us a pension of 5%, not 3% of the minister. But my teachers tell me, and you know the Hippocratic oath of our doctors who are now 5 and 700. Professor Hebrang knows it very well because they taught him and me. They say to me, "Rajko, I paid for it. Why do I, a university professor and you propagate Croatian knowledge, have to pay for it again? Why are you taxing me twice? Don't do this to our university professors, our academics. You work for those others." And in the end, Mr. Minister. You said that yesterday you singled out three groups of patients with kidney transplants, kidneys, pardons, organs, haemodialysis, so oncology. Do not make changes, do not interfere with our patients. All diseases are the same. And rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis. He's a classic, he's got a kidney transplant. He scores, he plays for... Well, he doesn't have to retire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Aloizio Morning, NBA basketball player, best, best basketball player Miami Hita. You're a gynecologist, you know that patients with transplanted organs are giving birth. I have a patient who gave birth. I'm proud. She's born, she's alive, she's working. You were at the Dialysis on Rebr the other day. Go again. I'll introduce you to the oldest dialysis patient. 90 years, 90 years. He drives a car here and there. I can't say that. 90 years. So why would we declare him that he, that he's because he's on dialysis is extremely seriously ill and someone who, not someone who has rheumatoid arthritis, age is not a disease. Do not make a change among patients. All the patients are the same. Anyone with rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis other than naturally cancer patients must have the same rights before us before the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23898	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23899	Thank you very much. Here, I'll look back at the presentation of my colleague Borzan. Correct several incorrect names from her allegations. Obviously, she did not read this bill but some others did, but she can make up for it after the debate. So what's wrong? That this law introduces new taxes and, yes, shameless taxes. This law does not introduce any new rate of tax or new rate of contribution. Secondly, it's a bad attempt to patch up budget holes. Conversely, the budget is a rag hole in the health care unit. Quite the opposite of what you said. It is incorrect for a doctor to give 15 kuna at the entrance. This is the only system in Europe in which this lowest participation is included in supplementary insurance which has therefore not been accumulated. There are no new charges. Reform is financial, not structural. The reform is 95% structural, 5% financial. The financial reform was carried out by you when you abolished 2% of the contributions and failed to implement the substitution, and that is why our system is still in deficit today. And in the end, no less important in the '90s you gave your colleague your best shot at driving as many people into retirement as possible. In the '90s, she retired, her colleagues, Serbian aggression drove people away. During Serbian aggression, the budget was reduced by 50%. Over 70% of Croatian companies were destroyed, 30% of territories occupied, and only 15 people, 15% of people went into retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23900	The second correction of the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From a series of incorrect allegations, but I'll take a turn. It all comes down to money, not colleagues, it all comes down to health protection and how you saw it on prevention, and most of it on primary health care. Get into health care. Which one do you impose? There are no new charges except for 436000 people of 4 million and 437000. You drove people into retirement. As a doctor, it's embarrassing to say that because these people had reason to retire. You'll be taking money from the door for a checkup. That's not true. We'll have people come over from the door for a checkup. This is going to make people go around the hospital. You really can't claim that as a doctor. You're gonna get people into private security. So who has the money and today is in private insurance and does not pay for the insurance of the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The tycunization in health care. What tycunization of a coworker? I'll show you how many people come to the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23902	Please don't throw it away. Corrects incorrect allegations. Please! So let your colleague who discussed it, I let him finish before he did, when it was red. Here you go. Please don't throw away from the club. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23903	I will continue to discuss the tycunisation of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23904	It's over, time's up. Correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go. And please hold on to your time. Then that goes for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23905	Dear colleague Borzan, I have only just heard that you are a doctor and so much my amazement is even greater after this debate. So I'm correcting incorrect allegations. So I no longer heard politics in this assembly, and less arguments and less professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23906	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23907	So the incorrect allegations are next. It all comes down to finance. That's not true. There's a lot of talk here about all the other aspects of the reform. If you wanted to listen to them, you could hear them. Exploiting the pensioners. I say here is protection and pensioners and everyone else. Avoiding homes of health and hospitals, and incorrectly this will open up even more access to health and hospitals, this will stabilize the system. Renouncing patients. And for God's sake, you as a doctor finally said that teams of family medicine have as many or as many charts. So how can you get patients on the charts? I really, really hope that one day the SDP will give up this debate because it was completely unfounded.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23908	Time. Time. Dear Representative Nedjeljko Strikic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the simplest thing would be to correct the whole exposure and say it's incorrect, because it really is. But I'll say the decoded thing and quote what the distinguished representative said. He says, with this reform, we're gonna make people stop going to the doctor unless they get water to their throats. Dear colleagues, since you are a doctor, you should know that 84 million services were delivered in primary health care last year, 84 million in primary care. And in the hospital system 80 million favors. If that's something we're forcing patients out of the health system, if we're taking it away from them, then you really don't even know whether you're working in that system or just dealing with politics. Secondly, I am pleased that Honorable Professor Ostojic had no objection to the structure of the reform. The reform is structural, and it's a great honor for the professor to see that it's structural reform and you said it the way the professor should say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23910	He didn't fix anything for you. Take it easy. Take it easy. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I do, it's really hard to make things right at this very short time, my colleagues have already made a lot right. The only thing that seemed to me was that my colleague and I were listening to different statements from our minister or that she was talking about some other reform. And I'll correct the next quote. My colleague said you should design a package that would be free of charge for everyone. So what were we talking about here? It is those who do not pay for participation, about children, part of radioactive residents who do not have enough pay, pensioners, unemployed people, people who suffer from HIVA and malignant diseases, Croatian wartime disabled. We talked about them here. My colleagues, you said we'd get people into private security. Well, some of them are in private security, and this particular reform, what the minister was saying, didn't even mention private insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23912	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23913	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the predecessors have corrected a larger set of incorrect allegations. I will just concentrate on this incorrect assumption that the doctor of general medicine is already taking money from the door. It's technically inconclusive, because first we need to do a favor, and then we need to see what's going on. That's the first one. Secondly, it was very evident from the minister's statement that he did not pay the number for the participation. So 836195 children, 115148 persons employed, 355323 pensioners, 30,000 Croatian military disabled and 505532 others. And what is special, therefore, in that part of a large number, and also those who have additional insurance, who have so far had additional insurance, they were, of course, released from all who in this part are therefore involved on the basis of solidarity to now touch and agree that healthcare system will not be paid. So I hold that in the future in general medicine, indeed, no one will pay for this supplementary insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23914	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go. Thank you. And the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23916	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Borzan has shown in her theatrical act that she is completely uninformed and has said a number of incorrect allegations. I'll fix one. She accused HSS of sitting in a chair of forgetting about his pre-election promises. My colleagues, Mr. Borzan, if you were sitting in this hall like you're not sitting, you'd come from time to time, you'd know that an administrative fee has been lifted on the HSS initiative. To remind you as a general practitioner, although I think you should know that the administrative fee paid over a million insurance workers, paid her all but pregnant children, those who had cancer and those who had HIV. The administrative fee gave 300 million kunas that went to the state budget, not to the health fund, and right on the HSS initiative, such an administrative fee was abolished. Therefore, do not spread falseness.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23917	Thank you. And in the name of the government, distinguished Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23918	Well, I tried to explain these reform proposals not to go back, but we can't. SDP nonstop, as you are after all, but if we are going back to Croatia in 2001 Croatian healthcare back, I will now tell you how. You know, there was no public debate, so it's not my fault that they're, I like you very much and I like you very much, but what are little letters. I mean, what can I do, little letters, so that's why there's no public debate. Over 123 meetings with Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Split, chambers, meeting of doctors, trade unions, employers, media, president of the state. I first went to present to him a proposal for reform as an institution of this state that we respect and after I presented the reform to my party, the first heard, of course, the prime minister and my party, and afterwards to the President of the State out of respect for the Institute of the President of the State. Well, now that we're going back, what did you do, and I didn't want to go back. In 2001, you reduced your salary by 300 kuna to a specialist doctor. We're going to HZZO tomorrow to check with the press. The doctor's salary was at your time 4 700, now 9 600 and plus 6% up over 10,000 kuna. You cut your salary by 300 kuna, that was your reform. The physical therapists cut the salary by 300 kuna. They had a salary of 3,000, now 4 800 plus 300 6%. Nurse, it's the heart of health. You know what you did to them? You have no right to speak, don't forgive me. Excuse me, excuse me. Let me play a game. Allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23919	No throwing away, and I'm asking you to take care of your expressions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23920	You don't have as much sensitivity as I do, because I've been a nurse for a year, too. Here, that's what I was going to say, excuse me. You're right about everything. But I also have the right to say that this heart of Croatian healthcare, because the heart of Croatian healthcare is nurses and patients are satisfied, they are not satisfied, most often because of the nurse who is most often with them. You've reduced their salary by 500 kuna. We raised our sister's salary from 3,300 to 100% to 6,600 and returned to place the chief nurse from 1.1th on a new proposal to the assistant director's level because it's Croatian healthcare, and that's what nurses deserve. With economists, you cut your salary by 700 kuna and graduate economists for 400 kuna. So I just said, we're introducing participation into primary health care, and I thank the coalition partners of HSS who asked that this million and 6 grand not pay and who asked that the policy not go up and we accepted it, and that's why we found common language with all coalition partners, primarily I mention HSS because they insisted on it, because as they insisted on abolishing the administrative tax. The only service, because the hospital is a service that hasn't been collected for 6 years, it's a supplemental health insurance policy since 2002, so six years of extra insurance policy hasn't been collected. And one more thing, if we're going to talk, when did the health system get messy? The moment SDP HZO put it in the treasury. That's what you're saying, over the past years you've been saying, let's set HZO apart from the Treasury, and you've put it in the treasury, and I'm telling you now, we're creating conditions 1.1 next year, not for a month, but for a year and something Croatian Health Insurance is coming out of the Treasury, it's a condition of stabilization next year, and HZO is coming out of the Treasury, I want to say very clearly. Exactly, my dear colleague, I apologize, but indeed you have read some new bill because you have said that for a part of your contribution you can own. It was really some sort of proposal that could be read, but it really isn't in the law, I apologize, but you've really read some other law, and here you've spoken on behalf of the SDP, so I'd like to ask you to read it again so that you can see that it's not true, as it's not true that 1,700 patients have a daily frequency of 70 patients, but 40 per all calculations and no, I guess those 40 didn't all cut themselves, so you all have to put a seam. Some of them must have come for a normal checkup, not all of them, let's say 70... that you must buffer everyone's nose, categorize the bladder and put on a seam. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's not do that. Structural nature, exactly 95% of this reform is structural and financial without, if we have introduced some new taxes, then these are taxes from the state budget, not from citizens' pockets. This reform, we must say very clearly for the sake of Croatian citizens, this reform of Croatian citizens will cost between 200 and 700 kuna per year, but for these, I would like to say, and Vice-President of Parliament Fristic as president of HSS. Let's add up to this million and six, 800 thousand who are now paying the policy, and they won't pay, so it's not a million and 6 grand, but almost 2 million people will not pay for participation in primary health care. I wanted to direct this debate in one positive atmosphere without going back, not going back and I'm going to say this. You've also done the coalition power of some good things in the health system. You did, so I have the courage to say it, and here you are, as you've had your mistakes, as we all have who do good things and mistakes, but let's not go back to this debate. Let's not go back, so it seems to me that someone from your benches told us if we're burdened by that past, we won't see the future. Let's look forward. I see the light at the end of the tunnel, and that's why in my half hour debate in the opening, I didn't look back on one single, I know, not one single sentence of my own, but I was looking forward. I pray again, let's look forward, let's look at the light at the end of the tunnel. You are convinced that I will not succeed, I am convinced that this reform of the health system will succeed, and once again I only mention, I am talking to over 6,000 people, and 123 meetings where there has been a debate for 10 hours with all those I have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23921	Thank you. We now have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23922	Mr. Secretary says he presented the reform, as you said, 120 and some places. It wasn't a reform, you represented something that was a powerpoint presentation where things changed from day to day, you presented them the way you listened to citizens' remarks. And even today you don't know what's going to happen out of this reform talking and budget, because yesterday you, Mr. Minister, lost nothing less than a billion and 700 million kuna in your health budget. What are you going to lose in the budget after Minister Schucker cuts things off for you now? We'll see only Monday when we see the real state of the budget when the government's amendments come, and then we'll know what's going to happen from your reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23923	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23924	Mr. Vice President, here I do not wish to appeal to the past, but as Mr. Minister points out again that the problem and chaos began with the coalition government that ran the health care system, I must tell you that the coalition government has handed over health care without debts with payment deadlines from 90 to 120 days. So it's clear when a new problem arises that I don't mention 94 when he's a professor. Hebrang abolished the amortization in healthcare which has brought invaluable losses we still make up for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23925	Thank you. Dear Representative Biljana Borzana, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23926	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely the Minister and your exposure and all the other colleagues tells me that the truth hurts and that's why you need to explain it, and I'm going to tell you something...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23927	Correction. What's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23928	...a lot of untrues, one of these is that the coalition government cut salaries to doctors in its term. I'll tell you in our term of office there was a great justice that unfortunately wasn't well caught in public, which is, in particular, I'll tell you, because I'm verifiable as you say, keeping my pay list to remember. I had a salary of 4.200,00 kuna, after 6 years of study and a year of volunteering, and my nurse 4.100,00 kuna. By the government's decisions, we split up, that I got about 5 grand, and she got about 3 grand. So at that point, my heart was in place in the sense that I was admitted to my work and my study, but I was sorry that my sister got a lower salary and it wasn't definitely something that was well accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23929	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Rajko Ostojić, an imprecise allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is what it's all about. GDP, so I'll give it to you. You know what the recession is, I asked your previous minister on "Open", "Checkable" what GDP is so he didn't know, in Croatia. This is GDP 91, rectification of the quote. The recession was 98th and 99th. 0.9%. Thanks to the rise during the coalition government to 6%, you've raised your wages, and now the curve is going back to the lower one. GDP, GDP has no raises. This is the basis of everything. We're learning what recession is, we're learning funding theory, and we're not going back in time because there's a lot of skeletons in the closet. HZO treasurer, get out of the treasury, who's bothering you, if you don't like it in the treasure. You've been in there five years. The shelf changed 80, 60, 40 in September 2007 you reduced the policy to 60 kuna and returned it to 80 kuna in December. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for allowing me a little more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23931	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23932	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I must admit that this discussion is one of the most difficult things I have had in this Croatian Assembly so far in these little less than a year, because it is difficult to find answers to several very important questions. I remind you that citizens have chosen us to pass logical and fair laws, to show in doing this honorable work the highest level of consciousness, awareness, responsibility, thinking, or what the people would say to measure ten times before we fold. How and in what atmosphere does this reform take place? I would say in one very humiliating way for the Croatian Parliament, for all parliamentarians. Last night, a criminal reform was discussed in this House with the presence of a few MPs. Health reform is under discussion today. How many days in the Croatian Parliament have they had at their disposition to carry out quality insight, discussion, evaluation, decision-making. What kind of reform will we bring across our knees in such a short time, and the parliamentary board, the parent council of parliament on this reform, was officially notified only yesterday morning. How is the Croatian Parliament treated when making such decisions? It looks like a passing station, like a place where there will be only one to allow for ephemeral, bizarre, superficial debates, and then later it will be said from the government that it was the parliament's fault because he brought it. I appeal to the conscience of all of us, it's a dangerous situation. A dangerous situation for politics as an honorable activity, a dangerous situation for us as people's representatives, a dangerous situation for Parliament, but trust in the long term and for the government. What kind of public debate is this? Says the minister for two months is under public debate. What was discussed? What are the models that the Ministry of Health discussed on the basis of expert consultations, among which models were chosen, what are the effects of individual models and what makes this one the best of possible. What can we possibly choose? We didn't do anything, but the Ministry could, I wonder if they did. Forgive my fellow doctors, fellow doctors, this is not a set of laws that are passed neither for the Ministry of Health, nor for the doctor sitting in this House. It's very important to hear what doctors, so people in the system think about this, but not crucial. These are laws that touch and touch every single citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder how. Can we only discuss the position of people who are in the system or the people to whom this system will apply? Was all this force of the public audience of 7,000 people structured by speaking to the people of the system or people to whom this system would apply, or to whom it was managed? And says the minister at the center of everything is a patient. We want the Croatian People's Party club to let the Croatian public know that such an important set of laws is passed by emergency procedure without real insight, without real analysis based on practically one powerpoint presentation and that we are not allowed to consider such a complex thing as changing the basic health law through two readings. And at the end of these doubts, as some colleagues have already pointed out, we do not know at all what financial sizes we are discussing when it comes to health reform, what will be available by the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Care when even the minister probably doesn't know, because only now will a decision be taken to cut it up with amendments and where, and we have heard from the media that it will be cut up on the items of health. Is this reform presented this way, based on one of the figures that we've heard about on the boards of the past days or on these others that we'll only hear about on Monday? In Croatia, we witness a paradox. It is constantly said to have an extremely high-quality health system, but it needs root reform. A moment ago, the minister said he saw the light at the end of the tunnel. So are we really in the dark when the health system is in the process? If we are, then that paradox needs to be done and said clearly and loudly where the problems are and start to solve them structurally. The underlying problems of the health system can be identified on the following issues. The availability of healthcare, the degree of centralisation of the system, the functionality of the prevention system, the state of primary health care, the state of emergency medical care system, the rational use of the resources of the specialist and clinical system, the supply and rationality of the use of medicinal products, the financial sustainability of the overall system. There's probably more. How does this proposal answer these questions? Did this proposal give us answers to these crucial questions? I don't think so. This dilemma whether it is a structural reform of the system or a reform of the financing of the health system, how it is possible to impose most speakers without being true but as some say 95% this is structural reform and only 5% financial. How come when we listened to the presentations of numbers and amounts, debts, prices, invoices, what are we talking about? Could the minister give us a guarantee that this system will resuscitate the state of health and that within a year, it will not be able to ask for re-changes to which the financial gaps in the system will be re-covered. Is that okay? I think it's our responsibility. I think it is up to him to say here that such an imaginary reform for which he assumes responsibility, but be sure that the government will put it on our backs as Parliament, that such a imagined system of dodging health losses. If he can't say that, then we haven't solved one of the biggest problems. 3.6 billion kuna is due to health care at this time, to acknowledge the debt of health care. It's said that by transferring from the state budget, we're going to cover a large part of that amount, it's even meant to be an entire amount, but here it is now cut. The message is we'll settle all debts, and if new ones come in, we'll come back for new funds. The minister says primary health care is the heart of this reform. A preventive review obligation is being introduced, but it says preventive programmes make up the county and says they will be paid by effect. 435 million kuna of fiscal decentralisation. Who are we kidding? Well, that's 1.8% of the total health budget. You call decentralisation something that is 1.8% of the total budget? So look how structured the bill is, what goes on the back of local and regional self-government, and we boast 435 million kunas of fiscal decentralisation. He mentions the Minister's public procurement system so he says we're going to a centralised system of single public procurement, and what's happened so far? How has the Croatian Health Insurance Institute blackmailed the county health homes so far? They will not be given decentralised funds unless they go to a unique public procurement system. So he makes them bring in a procurement plan in October of the current year, where they plan to spend certain medical devices that HZZO does not then recognise, and when the machine dies at 6 or 7 months, it does not allow him to obtain such an apparatus. We're not gonna pretend we don't see things. They've been blackmailed so far. Is this decentralisation of funds when they tell you that decentralised funds must be spent in a way that keeps them in their account and that they implement a system of public procurement. Well, isn't it better to introduce a mechanism to control the public procurement system? Don't we have enough laws to settle this? Don't we have bodies watching it? Don't we boast about the efficiency of the central state body? Why don't they go to county hospitals? Why are you taking their money? One of the most dangerous thesiss we've heard here several times, says a million and 800 thousand health insurance companies are costing the state. Who the hell is this country? They're all insurance. So these are Croatian citizens who pay taxes and contribute, so let's not cover our nakedness with euphemisms. What state? The state is only what its citizens created to gain security, solidarity in their society. It's a country. Each of our citizens will continue to pay for everything he has paid for so far and for a million and 800 thousand people will be health solidarity. That's what you have to say, not pay the state. What state? Well, no one gave that state money. It's the money that comes from our salaries and pensions. It's not a neck. It's a neck. There is no administrative fee, but participations are being introduced. Accurateness. Nurses will be administrators and cashiers. In foreign hospitals, where there is also participation, does not charge for a nurse. There's a system that controls it. When you apply to the hospital, your health insurance will be checked immediately and the individual tests you need will be dealt with immediately. Nurses aren't cashiers. Hospital information. How much have we heard about this before? So do you remember how much money we spent on those ironing systems, so what was the end of the use of a magnetic comic strip on our health card? How someone got a fat mustache on that job. And are we going to be condescending in that or not? There's good ideas. 32% of the excise duty on cigarettes goes into the health system, but isn't it two months ago that we're told here that a huge amount of these funds will go into educational programs, into preventive programs? Look at the state budget proposal 600,000 kuna you have planned to prevent tobacco addiction. Six hundred thousand kuna. What are we supposed to stop with that money? See how much money she says is extremely concerned about the most gravely ill, about death diseases, about those who lose their lives. You've got 100,000 kunas in the state budget for a palitative type like that. What's that? That's one thing we talk about, the other we do. I'm interested in something else. Will the city where I live finally get the right to mobile emergency teams? Will HZZO admit that there are 80,000 people living in my area who have no right to a surgeon who have no right to a cardiologist. In my town, the possibility of dying of a deathbed 12 kilometers from the City of Zagreb is greater than in any other city in the Republic of Croatia. Will he finally admit that there are so many people living in our county who need 43 emergency teams, not 15 of those who are now approved. That's what I want to know. Will the emergency mobile team still have to cover 550 square kilometers of hilly area? What about the idea of establishing the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute and the County Emergency Medicine Institute? Will this contribute to the effectiveness of emergency medical aid or to the question of how many mobile teams we have? How are we doing for the last three years with emergency medical attention? We bring one law, then the other. Let's undo that privy by bringing in the other one. And now there's a new system going again. People who work in an ambulance don't know what it is anymore, how. We've singled the dream out of it. I'm interested in whether 30 people who go to haemodialysis every day or every other day in my city will have a dialysis station, and they won't have to go to Zagreb. That's what I'm curious about, because my city has a right to do that. The people of my neighborhood have the right to do that. Why wouldn't they approve? 30 people have to go to Zagreb every day. What's with the torture? Is that the rationalization of the system? It says there's an increase in availability and that's how. Look into the law, says local self-government units can continue to raise standards, beyond what is provided for by the Croatian Institute. What does that mean? It means who has money can be introduced by an emergency team, and it's not about whether people die or not, but whether they have money or not. Is that the availability? Is that the decentralisation we're talking about? What are we talking about? It is actually said here that whoever has money regardless of whether a local or regional level will still be able to provide colour and quality services to their citizens rather than other areas. Is that decentralisation? So isn't the principle of a modern state to lower any service, regardless of which was administrative, social, health, education, as close as possible to its citizens. The Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Minister. We in the Croatian People's Party would like to be convinced of this reform as you are eager to defend it. But you've given us too few elements for that. And we don't think you've convinced us that this is structural reform. And now from the force to correct incorrect allegations, we'll see what we're wrong about when we say that you didn't put a patient in the center of everything, but the register.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23933	Excuse me, please, let's stick to the subject first, and the second one we take care of some expressions, so we don't ask here in the Croatian Parliament which state it is. I guess it's about Croatia. And now we're going for those corrections. First is Honorable Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd say Mr. Beus usually politicizes as always and says in a humiliating way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23935	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23936	I quote his word, humiliating the way the debate was conducted and what are the professional references of the people involved in the debate. Please, Mr. Beus, the representative of the Croatian medical chamber and the entire medical chamber was in discussion. Croatian Medical Assembly,...all associations of unions in health care, GSV. For you as a member of the Health Committee, you were invited to the first presentation organised by the Minister, not all members of the Health Committee have come. You were invited to a meeting of the Health Committee yesterday, where you didn't show up, if you weren't a politician, you'd say it all at the board's meeting. And why didn't you come? Why didn't you come to the board meeting?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23937	No benching. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23938	So it's a correction. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23939	Please don't throw it away. ... Agent, your time has run out. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Please don't pollemize, don't throw it out of the bench. Let's move on with the corrections. Dear representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One of the incorrect allegations that this debate is brought in this House in a humiliating manner. It's not humiliating to me, because as a representative, I'm proud to discuss it. Another false allegation, it would be said from the government, that the Parliament passed this law if something were to happen, not her. As far as I know in this House, we've chosen this government and I think we function as one body. And the government does not pass laws, but the legislative body is a colleague of this Parliament. Furthermore, the minister does not know what will be cut in the budget. The minister knows very well what to cut but not to the harm of the patients. Secondly, this is a paradox that we are discussing in this Parliament on this reform which is really incorrect because on the one hand you say that health care is good and on the other hand we are bringing reform but you do not know what health indicators are in this Croatia. On the one hand, you have patient satisfaction, health status on the other hand, and third financial satisfaction. These first two items are OK and this financially is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23941	Thank you. And we have a further correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23942	Dear colleague Beus, in your outstanding theatreism, I am delighted with the virtuoso elegance of your dictation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23943	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23944	Now I'm going to quote inaccuracies. In a humiliating way, the law is passed, through its knees, a dangerous situation, emergency teams. It hurts me, too, but you haven't read Mr. Beus what he says about the funds provided in this health reform. For the purpose of establishing a comprehensive emergency medical system, funds were provided through a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development amounting to 348 billion 925 thousand 577 kuna. Also in the state budget for 2000, another 3 million 400,000 kuna were planned for the purpose of improving emergency medical care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23945	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Beus. For the first time, I am very surprised because he is the Mayor of Velika Gorica, so you should know that the decentralised funds of my colleague Beus are not allocated from the budget of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute but from the state budget through the county, so that your county also finances your home of health. You should know that. When you said that the primary health care would be decentralized, so far, it's centralized funding and now 20% of primary healthcare is decentralised. Another quote of mine that I'm correcting. You said that a participation was introduced instead of an administrative fee, so it's all the same. He's not a colleague of the same. So far, administrative fees have been paid and participation in this proposal if you have listened under supplementary insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23947	Thank you. Now it's an honorable representative of Andri Hebrang's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23948	Thank you very much. My friend, you claimed incorrectly. I quote, "You don't know what models to choose from in health insurance.". If you had read the world's basic beginners on social security, then you would know that it was chosen between Bismarck's model, Deveric and so on. a budgeted and Mexican model and that one harmony may be better achieved than in other countries of Europe. You said incorrectly "The Minister doesn't know what's going to change for him in the state budget today.". The minister determined what would change, and he made it clear, "I'm cutting off one piece of cake to save 30 to 50 thousand jobs.". That's what you could hear and read, and I believe you know, but you're politicizing. And in the end, this package doesn't eliminate financial problems in health, so we didn't make it. There is no country in the world that has brought a package that eliminates all financial problems in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23949	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues did correct a set of false allegations. How many there are I'll have two or three. One when you said there was too little money to prevent tobacco disease due to tobacco use. So when you look at only one item correctly, you can conclude that. However, you have not seen all other preventive programmes implemented within the Public Health Office, etc. Then we'd see if that wasn't true. Second of all, you said that nurses would continue to charge, etc. The money in hospitals, and when it's pronounced especially theatricalally, then it really seems like we're seeing some kind of taxpayers in nurses. But you forgot or didn't want to or I don't know, so it's incorrect because it's simply voluntary health insurance or supplemental and all the other payments for all the other people have an intention, so that's what the aim of the reform is to provide the information with enough money in the system that actually a nurse rarely collects that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23951	Time. Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23952	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here are the predecessors who responded to a series of incorrect allegations, but I would certainly concentrate. He said it was incorrect to abolish the administrative fee and to introduce participation. The administrative fee has been abolished, Mr. Columbo, and there are many insurance companies and pay already as part of the additional insurance of 800 thousand who pay for the additional insurance but it is necessary to say that a million and 600 thousand will not pay for the participation. And the second quote you said about the availability of healthcare that nothing would move there, etc. I would like to say that according to the World Health Organization's standards of availability and quality, Croatia is in 30th place, so if we keep this 30th place and bring it down a little lower, it will be a huge success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23953	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a debate of ten minutes at 11 o'clock and 6 minutes, that we still have 6 clubs and 22 individual reports for discussion, and that we will therefore work without a break to save time. And now it's the honorable representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23954	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. We all agree both in the opposition and the position that something clear should be done. The water kind of got to the throat. It is understandable, too, that far greater responsibility is given to those who at this time rule over those who have the freedom to call power. It might be best if I made a joke to get back to the SIZs so that every county takes care of itself when it comes to health care, but the fact is that we agree that this is no longer possible and that something needs to be done. We heard, all of these clubs mentioned that the loss of health care of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, etc. 3 billion 680 million kuna, but we should add losses to our hospitals. For example, Pula General Hospital has 70 million kuna obligations to business banks, etc., so that the amount is certainly significantly higher. What we have in IDS is a priority, it's primarily the recovery of general hospitals. Why? That's why, as I see it in layman's terms, it treats the number of people, and on the other hand, the county whose budgets are miserable, e.g. In 2008, Istria County had a budget of 280 million kuna, in some ways it must worry at Pula General Hospital, which is in a year, or this year will be incomed by around 240 million kuna. I also have to be honest and admit that the first minister to see the problem of general hospitals was Mr. Milinović, at any point I will simply say, these limits for the General Hospital Pula 17,5 million kuna, are now entering HZZO expensive medicines, etc., so now in some way under quotes "can do business", I think. What I am, however, is seen in this 2009 budget. For example, in 2008 15 million kunas were scheduled for a general hospital in Pula, eventually realised, if realised through the rebalancing of all 7.5 million kunas. 20 million kuna is planned for 2009. And now the question is how will the Istrians build that general hospital in Pula, the investment is cca. 600 million kuna. For the first time, a local self-government defacto is involved in the construction with 20, 30% of its resources in a way that will be leased in Rovinj hospitals. But if there is a rebalancing this year, and they want a budget, and if this amount of Pula General Hospital is reduced from 20 million kuna to a lower amount, then the hospital will not be completed in the next 20 or more years. As far as this set of laws is concerned, everyone here mentions that this is about health reform. Where is this health reform so far? Here's to kind of paraphrase the Minister of Health Reform at the moment is in the tunnel. But what is certainly good, which is commendable, which is promising, which the minister at the end of that tunnel sees light. However, the minister saw the light at the end of that health tunnel and before, say, 20 days when his budget, or when his budget capacities were much higher, higher, than they are at this point, because he allegedly was stripped of a billion and 700 million kuna in the year ahead. What anyone who finds himself in a situation that has parents or someone of his own, or is alone in a hospital, is simply insulting to say so in every other hospital does not know toilet paper, but also speaks of a large extent of the gentlemen's representation of quality, not quality, not quality, but opportunities in Croatian health care. I'm glad to say Miss Hospital made one qualitative step. But it is normally funded by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I dare say that at least such standards have the right both Istrians and Rijeka and so on. What's wrong with me is that in the meantime, it's a demagogue that if the price rises, it'll endanger tax revenues. That's what the minister was talking about this morning, and it's clear that the 5 kuna addition would be dragonish, but 2 kuna, I think it would be absolutely realistic, and a man is asking himself a question why if the exact fact is that in this country mentioned by the minister, almost 15 thousand die annually from that kind of addiction, someone under quotes, that I should be so harshly "paying" someone's addiction. Of course we have to solidize, that we have to pay, but I also think that part of the burden could be transferred to those whose state guards the monopolies. What must have been good until 15 days ago in this reform is that for a moment, the minister was fighting for revenue growth in his portfolio by 25.6%. The 4.6 billion kunas were mentioned. However, the health budget to quote exactly the minister, so far will be lower by a billion and 700 million kuna, with 900 million kuna of which are due to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the Ministry of Finance will pay directly to the institution and we give up only from the renovation, says the minister of three hospital projects in the following year. So that's how the minister says, he thinks the revenues will be actually lower by about 800 million kuna. Health care, let's use the budget still for the one we got on the bench, should be incomeing 22.6 billion kuna. Now, whether it's minus a billion and 700 or just that 800 million kuna, we'll see on Monday. If we keep in mind that the budget expenditures in this country are 128 billion kuna, that with these 22.6 billion kunas for health care, then there goes another 34.1 billion kuna for salaries of 23.4 billion kuna for material expenditures 9.9 billion kuna for subsidies of 6.9 billion kuna, then we see that for capital investments only 3.6 billion kuna, plus something or cca. So much money in extra budget funds. That's tragic. On the other hand, we also see according to those tables we had this morning and the opportunities to monitor that year-to-year so to say the cost of health goes up 10%. In Croatia for healthcare, we allocate 510 euros per capital, per capita, in Austria 1790, 980 euros per capita for health care in Slovenia, and it is clear that Croatia cannot have the health standard of one Slovenia, Austria, Great Britain and so on. And that is so, that I am right to testify that many of the champions of this country, when health care is required under quotes, are looking for them abroad rather than at Croatian hospitals. Clearly, there is no room to do something to reduce this 15% contribution, but for us in the IDS, it is absolutely unacceptable that any new imposition goes on the burden of pensioners. It's just how to express myself. In Croatia we have about 67,000 pensioners up to 500 kuna, 102 thousand from 500 to 1000 kuna, 137 thousand from 1000 to 1500 kuna, 254 thousand from 1500 to 2000 kuna, and so on, so we can say that the real victims of this reform will be pensioners or pensioners. What's the problem? So in what he mentioned, the minister himself was that we had a million and 900 thousand employees in this country in the 1990s, and on the other hand there were 650 thousand pensioners. Today 2008, we have a million 560 thousand insurance workers and a million 150 thousand pensioners. We de facto lack 30% of workers to that number from the 1990s, and we have 100% more pensioners than there were in 1990. What? Now what's this reform wearing? The terms change as we can see for 10% of the pensioners and for 415 thousand workers with a salary above 5 thousand 108 kuna. What should be supported, and that's all I support is extra insurance. The other doesn't. That's where the government of health means getting a lion's share of these 4.6 billion kunas minus a billion and 700 million kunas. What is the ministry, the ministry has withdrawn or amended also, it should be said, significant items from the public presentation of the reform two weeks ago. In the first row, about reducing the health care contribution rate to the account of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and transferring part of mandatory separation to insurance from 3 to 5% at the expense of private-security houses. A significant change from what was presented and in the fact that, as one of the criteria of liberation from participation, the income censorship was mentioned but in the law, the law was introduced this how to call it the income censorship in which all incomes are entered, including clear social benefits. On the other hand, we can ask a question like this. Is it a better situation for someone who has 10 thousand kunas of salary, and has no apartment or is in a better situation the one who has, I don't know, an inherited house or has a house, and has, like, 5,000 kunas of monthly salary? The law suggests that participation is not paid by insurance companies whose total income does not exceed 45.59% of the budget base, which in 2008 amounted to 3 thousand 326 kuna and pensioners whose monthly incomes do not exceed 58% of that base. Therefore, all whose income is above the 1516 kuna will be paid, and among the pensioners those whose income is greater than 1929 kuna per month. In Croatia, this additional insurance is paid by 700 thousand people at this time. The goal is to include 2 to 3 million people, or what Slovenia has done, which thus covered almost 90% of its citizens. Even slightly above 90% of citizens. The policy would be paid by the state for 869 thousand pensioners plus 115 thousand persons employed plus those 500 thousand in other categories. How much more money is that now? In Croatia, at this point, only 14% of citizens are paid, and only 14% of citizens really need to say that. How much would that be? That would be an average of 30 to 50 kuna more per month so we would have, there would be 400,000 people in the country more expensive policy. And it's like the minister says equivalent of two and a half boxes of Malbor a month or three to four boxes of this Ronhill. Everyone in Croatia certainly spends more money on cigarettes than two or three times as much as on a shelf and not on any of us, but almost singles out more on a single cell phone than on a shelf. The fact that he has free health care is clearly a demagogy. Maybe that's how it was, what I know, during socialism, but as I said then, the ratio of the pensioner to the worker was 1:2.8 and today the ratio is 1:1.1.14. Realistically, it is 1:1 though, if we reject all of us who are on the budget and if we refuse from that number some 60 thousand people who are daily clearly on sick leave. And with such a ratio, with such an economic picture or an economic one, it really led to the fact that the whole system would not be said to collapse, but it would collapse and maybe collapse. So what is it to do or what does the state do? The state clearly takes citizens and now tries to give health care in some parts and in some ways orders to pay for these supplementary insurance policies. The citizens, I say, and I can understand that, but I can't understand on the other hand that there's no health care and that there's a Peljecan bridge of money. There is money for the construction of handball halls and there is no money for the restoration, equipment or recovery of debts of the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The state has given more than a billion kuna cash for the halls in Zagreb, Osijek, Zadar, Varazdin, Split. Poreč got some land he sold, but that's how it had to be done elsewhere. Here's that abandoned property. Put them in function, and that living cash should have been directed towards our hospitals and something like that. The real paradox is that for, I don't know, hospitals aren't there, that there are some that cost more to the halls than they cost new hospitals. All the mandatory contributions for pensioners plus this participation are not supported. The shelves that because without that money without these shelves, health care will be collapsed and then the minister who inherits the resort will only be able to bury the health care, I don't know, print "in memory" or sing and play the requium. It's too much of a clear system to just politicize. To be absolutely against everything. 81 thousand people on today are working in the health system in the Republic of Croatia and it is not clear to play with. The state is, I won't say, in front of bankruptcy but in one serious situation. No one knows what's coming after 6 months? Are we gonna avoid IMF intervention? And therefore, at the very least, anything should be done to save at least this health resort. Is there anything to redistribute in the budget now that time will show. In 48 hours, we'll get the amendments. We'll see what it's really about. But I personally think it is not good to take healthcare, because I will repeat whoever takes or makes such moves can afford treatment in both Austria and the United States and Switzerland, and the vast majority of citizens must rely on our health system. That's why it's just something to do when it comes to health care. What might have hurt me the most when we talk about it. These are some different criteria between the citizens of certain parts of Croatia. But just one example. That's what I was talking to the minister about. For a young boy of six, seven, eight months, I don't know exactly. For little David from Buzet, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute did not approve treatment, transplanting this lung or whatever it is called, so the City of Buzet, i.e. Every resident in Buzet gave as much as he could. A million kunas gathered, and for some other children there was money. Of course, it should be for everyone. It's the same operation, in the same town, in Padua, in the same hospital. I know that 437 Croatian patients were treated abroad last year. In 8 months, 2008. 287 people. I know these are huge costs, but the criteria have to be just the same for everyone. In a year's time, to finish again, we'll probably be looking for two, three, or 3.6 billion kunas for health care at a meeting like this before Christmas. Therefore, it is necessary to consider whether health care in the budget should take 900 million kuna. I don't think that's a good idea. I think it would be the smartest way to put heads together, get rid of at least that healthcare, because next year it's going to be far, far more difficult to put a budget together than it was in this difficult year 2008. And if we don't resuscitate the system until I don't know the next parliamentary election, then you've pissed on all of us. I clearly do not envy Mr. Milinovic, the Minister of Health, but I am even less envied by that future minister who will take responsibility for this portfolio and therefore we really need to do everything we can to help the health system as much as possible at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23955	Thank you. We have two corrections. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain, you are really contradictory in your statements and you are telling the truth. One of them is that every other hospital doesn't have toilet paper, and before that, you say that there's an increased limit to hospitals and that they have both food and material costs. So, and for toilet paper. A really inappropriate comparison. On the other hand, you're saying it's unacceptable to impose again on pensioners, that pensioners are victims. So you're going to totally confuse the people who are watching us. First my neighbor who has two and a half thousand kuna pensions. You're saying she's got a new load. No, she doesn't have any coercion. She'll go to her primary health care doctor as before. So there is no charge and for over a million pensioners nothing changes except for pensioners who have a higher salary of 5200 kuna. They're 58,000. On the other hand, by comparing that we have no health care, and we have for the Peljeski bridge, we have for the halls, so you have to separate healthy and sick and that money from the Peljega Bridge, money from the roads, from the hall goes to health care. So, the link between health and the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23957	Time. Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said medical supplies are being taken away. It's not only incorrect, it's cheating on the public because the resources of the health care industry are growing. Health funds are growing in the following year, and this is growing significantly. Or growing to the extent that it was intended to be a second issue, but it is growing significantly compared to 2008, to 2007. Therefore, health care is not to be taken away. The funds are growing significantly and therefore the reforms will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23959	On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23960	Honorable MPs, just one correction to an incorrect allegation. I don't think you might know all the facts in this case that you mentioned. I mean, I'm very familiar with that case. It's not, it's a liver transplant, not a lung transplant. The parents took the child on their own from the Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb in Padovo, although our commission of three respected experts claimed that this operation could also be made in Croatia, so in the Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb. Here, it was just that, and we medical procedures, expensive operations, transplant procedures in the Republic of Croatia, we can't pay outside and no country in the world does that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23961	Thank you. And now we have on behalf of the HSS Club, the Honorable Representative and Vice President of the House Josip Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23962	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Certainly, as numerous polls confirm, and we are all very well aware of that after the concern of the man about what he will do and how he will ensure existence in all the metric health care polls and the health care issue is usually second only. And that's why it's no wonder that this particular topic has triggered a debate, but not just here and not just today, that it's discussed often and in general. But unlike this debate, we discussed health mostly when it was a question of how much additional resources should be allocated in order to preserve the functioning of the system, how to deploy them and direct them and what is essential. What we are talking about here today is that the health system should be watched through the care of every citizen we provide, what we give him, and what security we guarantee. Surely these three legal solutions are actually part of or the product of what came out of one, I am not afraid to say it here, public debates about the need for health reform. No reform, including health care, will be carried out at the time of the vote of regulation, but by implementing it into life, and if it were necessary, that it was necessary and that it was passed over certain things and passed and put into another plan, it best tells us, I will only take a few indicators. I'm not a doctor and I'm not going to engage in professional debates within that profession, but certainly when it comes to the matter of loss, then it was issues of outstanding obligations, it was the waiting lists, it was a question of unequal conditions in providing services, it was a matter of loss, it was a question which was actually the role of founders because we know, the state was the founder of clinics, but the county hospitals, the homes of health, the emergency service, the Public Health Service, all of it had according to the regulation of its founders at the regional level, but it was questionable and many were asked, I was the mayor's 2 mandates and wondered unless there was a problem, where my role was there, which I could create, except when I was getting the roof to run to the minister and to ask him for foreign funds. And certainly, what contributed to this state, it was year after year indexing the limit and the first beginning of reform for me and for us at HSS was at the time when current Minister Dr Milinovic had the strength to gather the directors, leave them with real constraints within budgetary opportunities and seek responsibility. So he stopped one process that went on for years by the principle of who spends more, more noises, they'll get more because they'll get in a certain percentage of what he created as a commitment. And he imposed responsibility and in the report he gave responsibility was accepted and accepted from the other side because after September he did not propose and did not change, as far as I know any director, which means that the people of the system as well as the people of the system, when they received real resources and the ability to manage them, they understood and accepted it responsibly and set out in this way in the realization of everything that according to the laws and needs of the citizens belongs to them and waste. Did she, because here it was said that some before the elections had said one thing, and after that they entered the warm chair, so they say the other, I want to say that some of them are arguing here in this House, and they haven't even read the law. This is the worst because if they had read, had come to a public debate, and we from the HSS and organized several round tables, called the ministry representatives, talked to them, gathered doctors regardless of the political status of this party or that party, and what is most important, which confirms that it was a public debate, none of these meetings were attended by a representative of the ministry or the minister said one way or another. Because if he had set himself up that way, then it would actually be a presentation, not a debate. Just to remind myself, and I don't blame him because whoever suggests always wants more, always knows what needs are optimally, it's our role to put it in reality and the moment it was proposed that 4% of the contributions go to us personally, that we have them, that we can through this or that, that form or the insurance house to provide for ourselves, we pointed out, it's not the time. That way we'll compromise this system through HZZO. Then when we get to those indicators and those relationships and the relations that we once had 1 to 1, 2.5, when there's not 1 almost 1, 1 sure that's something that's good. That's what we're gonna come to, now's not the time. It is also certain that when we started to debate and the first proposals were that the pensioners or pensioners were already affected by more than 2.5 thousand kunas with 3%, and this is over 5 and 200 times 5%, so we discussed, so we agreed through that debate and today is before us a proposal that we will accept or not. We'll accept it that these up to 5 grand 100 and something, so 5 and 200 don't pay, that's to say, out of the state budget 1% is to be allocated to them. Equally, this isn't 5, it's 3. I know my colleague and friend Hrelja will say, but it's best if it's nothing, and I agree. It's all on the trail of what everyone wants us to have free health care, but nothing's free, no coffee. Although it's cheap in our restaurant, but it's not free. And health care has its price, it's just a question of who's going to pay it, how we're going to get through solidarity forms because it's obvious that a little more than 1 million is in the creation sector that contributes this way, and 4.5 million of us are when we come to the consumption table. It's like in the economy. While one goes to work, four comes to lunch at noon. Now we need to deploy so that no one is hungry or belongs to everyone as much as possible from such work to accept, take or schedule. What's also important in the first moment they weren't inside, they introduced the law, they're the complete release of our citizens who are suffering from malignant and chronic diseases. Many have said that because we know it's long-term, it's hard, it's painful for a person who's sick and for a family, and then even when it's necessary to pay extra, to participate, it's certainly even harder. Something that the minister left open today, I think it's good to think and I suggest and support, we in HSS what's his last thought, that's the relationship when it comes to the chieftains of that 60, 40 that was in the proposal, he said today we're going to take it one step at a time, so maybe it's going to be 90, 10. I am for this second last proposal 90, 10, because these people, our doctors, primary healthcare specialists should also be allowed to go through certain education and to come up with certain equipment that they don't have today that through concession contracts with the county all this expensive contracts and spaces, because here my Dr. Milinović from Pridravje is certain that he was through his infirmary otherwise providing services as in some other place closer to Koprivnica or with less equipment and a desire for intervention. Because he was always in my county in Predravlje serving as an example of that family doctor 24 vor and many told me why he went to the Parliament because he had the best place there among the citizens, but also here he is good to be. And what I'm trying to say here is, did we cancel the administrative fee? We shut her down because she had nothing to do with health care, she went into the state budget, not the HZO fund. By introducing participations it is the income of the health system actually a million and 60 thousand people who have previously paid an administrative fee now will not even pay for participation and that is that contribution and entry into the coalition and the chair. And what we're saying is whether participation is something new now, participation is not something new because now who has patients in comatose condition and up to 10.800,00 kuna has to pay for participations. After this bill is passed, they will pay a maximum of 3 thousand kuna. Therefore, it is not being introduced as a hack, but is being brought down into real forms of perception to settle the costs of what we call health care for all of us, by applying methods and principles of solidarity. Who will contribute and give the most through this reform at least at the first moment? All citizens together, but right through that model through the budget because we are also pushing through those systems that right through the tax system tomorrow in the future we are no longer living through contributions to health care needs, but in the budget we received health funds are proposed with an increase of 25.6%. And what's important, there may be some other positions being debated, but the additional health insurance position has an increase of 49 3.4% and is a billion and 715 million, and that's exactly the guarantee of what we're talking about, that those rights that are determined to be possible as such. Significant and important is what the law determines is this further process of decentralisation, and I would say the right decentralisation over a certain period, through certain means and decision-making related to emergency medical assistance because we all have to agree, we have not been there or have not been all areas equal so far, because very often it was just the number of residents who restricted or approved the formation of teams. Now the law says that with the number of inhabitants is a significant and good structure, distance, development of the travel network, etc. Everything that the citizens told us about, referred their remarks, is now entered into the articles of the law. Public procurement is certain to be brought down and it is certain that efficiency can be achieved through these forms. There is no need to form special procurement facilities everywhere because we know, we have in the county with less than 100,000 inhabitants, we have the City of Zagreb which has, among other things, the function of the county where clinics are and is not the same everywhere. Somewhere in the county commissions, they'll need a service somewhere, but it's certain that we'll be more transparent for citizens to account for the funds allocated for those purposes. It strengthens the role of founders, because what we now introduce into the law, that's this advice, some already have, but then, it's advisory bodies. That's what happens when people get together, they come across the waist, and they talk about what to do, how to solve the problem. We now put in place that they write and record, make both conclusions and someone and undertake to take action and actions primarily when it comes to prevention, strengthening, giving concessions, monitoring the functioning of the concession, creating uniform conditions when it comes to equipment and a series of other things that put this law before the founders, which puts before the county, the City of Zagreb, and especially what is important is strengthening the role of home health. Health homes must not be and we must not be allowed to continue this process... I can see that we're stopping him, that it's a rare thing to be, but it's a simple place to turn. [[You don't understand.]] In the morning one in the infirmary, one in the labs, another in specialists, etc. And by half past half, some of my doctors had already been to "Tourist" for coffee. It's not good, and the head was the same. Then those who have worked have objected, why we are all the same, therefore we should, work is measurable and here work is measurable, we need to standardise it and should adequately pay and follow it, and I believe that this law opens that it is not just a year's internship is the difference in receiving one from another doctor, surely that its work, profession, the pawnage must have its value and through receiving it. And in what direction we're as politicians, because I said I'm not a doctor, but it's certain that when it comes to health, health care, we have all the expensive and role of sending messages to make what we agree as rights, to convert as obligations of those who provide services, but also so that tomorrow it is settled and paid. It is a movement towards the supplementary health insurance system because if we were to achieve what counterpart Cain said, as Slovenians do, 96% of them are in the supplementary health insurance system, they would not talk about participation, they would not talk about these rates, etc. Let that be our goal, but let's go the way we're supposed to. And that's why the HSS club will vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23963	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Honorable Representative, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Frisčić said about it, reform is not implemented in a way that only laws are passed but are implemented live, implemented in practice. That would only be partly true, i.e. In this situation, it is deeply incorrect and because when a law of this serious nature and such a serious meaning is brought in this way which I will later talk about, in a completely undemocratic way, it is then a assumption that I doubt that it will be able to implement in a good way that reform will also be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23965	Vice-President Željka Antunović, Vice-President of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23966	House Vice-President Friscic said, quotes: "This reform ensures that malignancies are fully freed from malignancies". A little imprecisely, but I guess he meant all the expenses he could have in case of malignancies, insurance and his family. It is simply not true because it is a common thing that many sufferers, not all but many malignancies cannot cover the basic health insurance, which is a cure. Due to financial restrictions that only a theoretical possibility exists in the institution or hospitals, and in practice cannot be achieved unless you have a good relationship. I'm saying this because of those patients you can read in the paper and they report daily that I can't exercise that right that's just theoretical. And secondly, I am correcting the statement on the contribution of the HSS to abolishing the administrative tax, because it is said from the ministry that the administrative fee has been abolished because it has not achieved a single objective, so it would be good to agree with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23967	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Friscic incorrectly said that 25% more healthcare funds would be provided in the budget. How much of the budget will be at all, and how much of the health funds will be provided, it seems that no one in this assembly seems to know. As far as decentralisation is concerned, you point out that the role of counties is strengthened, in fact the role of counties is weakened because nowhere in this law is the means of providing funds for new functions imposed on local self-government units when it comes to health care. And you're talking about strengthening the role of home health. This law actually means further destruction of home health.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23969	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Vice-President of the House, Mr. Friscic, claimed that the law did not introduce itself but to abolish participation. The reason he stated that the name and the jury were changed, because it was not paid in the budget but in HZZO. From the payer's point of view, it doesn't matter if it's called Janko or Marco. Participation is introduced and it is not limited by this law at all. Therefore, it is a deeply incorrect claim made by the vice president of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23971	The club of representatives of HSU-HSLS, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23972	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Surely everyone would agree on one question that health care system reform is necessary in Croatia. She was necessary yesterday, she's necessary today and she'll be spent systematically tomorrow. And none of us sitting here can say reliably if next year there will be one, two reforms, none, and how it will continue to happen in the next five years because there is a lot of it today in suspense. But here we are, and we will have to accept these challenges and those temptations. We have discussed a lot of this proposal with representatives of retired associations within our party with a coalition partner and have come to some compromise solutions and we are not satisfied, we are not happy, and who is happy and who is satisfied with all this proposed but somewhere has to draw a line. Of course, it's worth saying that today's health care system is very different than 15, 20 years ago, that they are primarily differences in material health. There is an increasing number of active insurance companies, and an increasing number of service users. The fact is that there are smaller isolations for the health system and that these reductions are systematically the last ten years from 20% to 18%, and to 16%, we now have 15% of the salary contributions and that's aside from this second increase insufficient. Our age is increasing, the average age of the population is increasing, and thus needs are increasing, or health care is increasing. We are witnessing the explosive development of technology, diagnostic methods and procedures, and with that and specialist knowledge, and therefore the need for citizens to have these expertises. Compared to the previous period, a family doctor, as things are now, is hardly able to meet the 30 percent need of a patient. That's not good, that's where we have to change things. While 15 years ago, it was between 70% and 80% of the patient's needs. So it was that classic printing model on which the foundations of health rest, but modern technologies and modern trends change these relationships. We have also witnessed the explosive growth of the pharmaceutical industry and the availability of information on drug effects more than ever, and we have witnessed greater pressure on the use of new generations of medicines and the use of increasingly expensive medicines. We live in a time when the fama in society is that the medicine is all-powerful, that very little as a person, starting from me first invests in our health and we care about our health. With such trends, I repeat again, so far, and now to find new sources of health care funding. It was necessary to rationalise the business of all healthcare entities, which has always been avoided, always going infavore to the patient, so we'll sort of patch up the holes. Medical procedures should be standardised and algorithms of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures determined. It is still waiting for an algorithm of methadone therapy, because I believe that methadone therapy is a burden on all taxpayers and there must be an algorithm I expect it in such an atmosphere and in such needs there has been a debate on health reform. I used the word "debate," I didn't say "public," and I didn't say a presentation. There are different criteria and different concepts between us public debates. If I were to organise a public debate, then six months ago, I'd have made a package of laws that give one frame, so that the reader can understand everything that's proposed. But this far more than a presentation, far more than a presentation. Because social structures gathered around the proposal, negotiated, made proposals, counter-proposals, and there was a way of setting a certain balance and needs and real opportunities. Therefore, we cannot assess this debate or the position of the public debate, because it is simply not true, and it had a part of the public, but neither can we say the rules of public debate are fully respected. But it's been a lot of work. It's a fact, especially the minister, and his team's invested. I don't want to forget anyone. That's the kind of debate and that's one thing but for sure. I'd like to start with this package of laws, my colleague Friscic has been a bit of an extended subject, he's also been discussing what's not on the agenda. In fact, at this point we are not discussing the Law on Contributions, we are now discussing two health laws and a law on voluntary insurance. So I'd like to say something about these three laws. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act, as well as the Health Protection Act as amendments and additions to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, frames one primarily new source, several sources of funding, but primarily one significant source of funding, which is the state. So, for the first time in five years, I've been monitoring this health care, and I've never seen it before. For the first time, they are systematised, or country-specific obligations. And I see this as a step further, even though it doesn't say it in the law. Although I will try it on behalf of the club to suggest it through one conclusion of the Parliament. I see this good road to tomorrow, so over the year as the minister has promised, the jury account of the Croatian Health Insurance Office comes out of the state treasury. It's the only way to make this system transparent, to know how and for what and how and what money is spent. My wish was also as foreseen in the past, so now in force law, that the Croatian Health Insurance Office is managed by a real insurance assembly, because it makes sense. We politicians do not always have to be judges who will determine what is justified, which is not justified in health care and what moves we must make and which ultimately will be the price of the additional health insurance policy. I don't think we have to decide on this, and I think the Administrative Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is still too little of the body that is now deciding on it. But as a transitional period, I said this law defines the state's obligations to the health system and we will no longer be able to talk about recoverys, but we will have to talk about fulfilling or not fulfilling the country's obligations to the health system, which is a qualitative step. Also compared to the administrative fee that we all or most of us have claimed here that it actually did make the poorest pay the highest health care service. I would not have pulled the parallel here if we had lifted it because it did not go to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, because neither will participation go to the jury account now, but it will go to the state budget. But we claimed that the administrative fee most affected the poorest. With the participations it was avoided in a way that all those who are either freed by law or who fall under the income censorship were freed from participation. So they are freed from participation and we can no longer claim that participation affects the poorest. So it's about a qualitative step back in protecting the poorest. What else you need to say might be a little different. Yeah. The total health care services are collected for the price of a supplemental health insurance policy, the one that doesn't. The one who has equal terms does not change anything. But the one who does not have it, to protect himself from the risk, to protect himself from the risks that the health care system brings to him, financial risks, is required to close the supplementary health insurance policy under favourable conditions. This is imposed in front of the citizens of Croatia as an imperative, as an instrument for their existential protection. And it's not the privilege of richer members of society, but it's a pure instrument to protect them from the increased costs of the health system. Because if there is no policy, they will have to, with the exception of those who are free to pay for participations where the same step-by-step quality step forward that they are limited on top, that they are not infinitely large. So they're limited by a certain rate of budgetary base that may be 90 percent of the budget base or 3 thousand kuna at this point which is the highest amount of participation so here we have one conflict. And retirement associations and we as partners at the club have one approach that maybe 20% of the price of service is not the best criterion for determining participation but we can stay in our thinking, we can see and therefore we don't have to make obstacles to this law, we can see how it will apply. We're to sort of protect our position and give the amendment. Depends whether the ministry accepts it or not. What the HSLS and HSU Club keeps disputed is the fact that even in primary health care, part of primary health care to be precise introduces participation to us for principled reasons, this is not going to work because we think that the entry into the system should be fully covered by compulsory health insurance. But again I say there is, again there is a solution and a solution to that famous supplemental health insurance. He seems to be following us financially as an itch of participation, but the cure is the only additional health insurance against that danger. So there is something interesting about this law that could be interpreted in different ways and the law says that additional health insurance predicts and covers the difference in the price of the medicine. We will see when we discuss it or when we see the rule whether it makes this supplementary health insurance or whether it concerns private health insurance to cover the difference in the price of the medicine. Although we discussed this in the negotiations, although we cared about a firm position to separate the account or account of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute from the Treasury, so to separate it from the State Treasury system, which is a fundamental prerequisite for clean bills in health care, as we do not find any indication that in the future the congregation will manage the office. We have therefore reached a conclusion and I expect the promoter to conclude one conclusion in accordance with the agreements and talks in this respect with the deadline of one year of adaptation and to accept. As far as the Health Protection Act is concerned, I would be happy to have these doctors agree on this because I really have no intention of talking as a politician about the division of jobs and the organisation of health care jobs, and I would find it much more important to agree with the health profession about it. Of course there is little, we can discuss the degree of decentralisation, about the authority in emergency medical care and what would be better and here I think we can also really open-heart this law we accept and we will vote for it because I think it is very solid and that, with certain adjustments, it can be made very good. Now, we've got some extra insurance. At the extra insurance. Excuse me, with voluntary health insurance, I'd like to draw your attention Mr. Minister to some possible problems tomorrow. For example, here in Articles 14.b, 14.c and 14.d, we are talking first about income censorships, and we are inserting what is income, and in most cases we are talking about income. I also want to tell you that it is possible for Article 14d to be in collegiate with the Income Tax Act because the Income Tax Act says that pension incomes from abroad are not considered income and here in Article 14.d exactly states that pension incomes from abroad are considered income, so I just want to give you a well-intentioned warning that you are controlling this thing before the adoption of this law. Furthermore, about the contributions in which we have an opposite view not because the state has shown sensitivity in the distribution of social burdens, that the Government or the Ministry has certainly held one principle that more burdens to those who have objectively and greater payment opportunities. In our contribution, we have a conflicting view of other principles, which is that if we see ourselves in one neighbouring Slovenia, then the other should be seen in neighbouring Slovenia. If we look at the desire for 90% of our people to be covered by additional health insurance, then we have to read from their laws to contribute to the pensioners' salaries of the state or on the burden of the budget or on the burden of the special asset it draws from, but we'll still discuss it, it's only coming to the agenda and it wouldn't make any sense that at this point I'm burdening you with it. What I'm saying is that what the laws say is not exhausted from the possibility of filling the treasure through contributions or tomorrow from the Croatian Health Insurance Office. According to two years of older polls, Croatia has about 8 billion kuna tax and contributions. Croatia only has 50 million before two years old unregistered, unpaid working hours. This directly affects the collection of contributions to the pension system, health system and tax. Therefore, these are still the sources that this law, of course, should be the government's overall action strategies, it cannot be resolved by this law but it is my duty here to argue that these are reserve sources of funding and I think the time of crisis is coming and the crisis is a danger but the crisis and the new chance to calculate with the gray economy, that even the employers we've been taking on hand all these years, at least the Croatian state has been on hand to free them from the burden of being more competitive to be part of it from profit and all of what they have in some way return to the system, because the system for them and their workers, on the basis of which they have achieved profits rather important to keep them out of recovery, i.e. Stabilisation of the health system. So, and in conclusion, the HSLS and HSU club will support these three laws, therefore, will vote with a desire to make our conclusions if, if you assess the amendments, the conclusions certainly are. With that, I would like to conclude that as well as we are here, no one can guarantee the success of the reform, because it is our permanent obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23973	Thank you. Two corrections. House Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23974	In fact, I would like to correct the statement that a colleague has said that, allegedly through these bill proposals, the balance between needs and real opportunities has been reached through the preparation of these laws. Unfortunately, it's exactly the opposite. I think that the proposing ministry, which has heard a number of remarks in this but also in previous periods, has made no effort at all to take advantage of all the real possibilities, first of all, of the one relating to the rationalization of the system. It is truly realistic to implement, but it is not offered by these laws. And I'll tell you why right away. Because of their political interests and because of the interest of certain health lobbys that make a very good living on public health care. And I think through these laws the ministry continues to support, because it goes in favour of private and to the harm of the public. It is also better to regulate the supplementary insurance system. We've had extra insurance for six years, six years you've assured us it's bad, you've introduced some kind of administrative fee, and now you're missing out on telling us why you lost those six years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23975	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, the Honorable representative of Hrelja said about it as if it were an incomplete public debate, but that there was a public debate with which he was not very pleased, so there was a constant public debate. There was no public debate as predicted by a democratic society, and this was because there was no material on the basis of which a public debate would be held. It was the oral handover of the Minister of Health on certain thesiss which he presented in part and concerning future reforms of health care or the improvement of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23977	SDSS club Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23978	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Health care is a sensitive area, there is little to prove, and today we are talking about a difficult topic and because people have a distinct sensitivity when it comes to health care, including the rights and obligations created or abolished in this story. And there's a constant fear of an ordinary man being with health care, but beyond that, what's going to happen to his health. We all feel something here that is certainly necessary for health care to be reformed. And make probably root reform. The minister called it structural reform, whatever that means probably makes sense. Now, what we're discussing on this issue, as people in the Parliament and as citizens at all, we have to admit, it's health care is expensive for us. We've got a lot of waiting, we've got a accumulated health deficit, we've got a lack of field expertise, and it just can't go on like this, and there's got to be something to do. And I agree. We've come, I won't talk about other areas but we're talking about health care now, we've come to the stage when Croatia in the healthcare system has to do something. One of the things that occurs inevitably must therefore expand this money-gathering mechanism. There are laws here and today we're talking about how we should... Health insurance, their financial contribution to health insurance must be greater. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's definitely necessary. I'm not clean enough, because I just don't know, and I'm going to let him teach me about it next time, whether we're good at financial obligations or if we're going to have to make some adjustments. But I'm only going to mention one thing here that's, let's say, so legislatively interesting. We introduce by law the obligation to contribute to those who have less than 5,000 salaries or pensions. Then after that, we said the budget would pay for that commitment. It's okay. That's fine in the short term, but I'm afraid now, of course it won't be, I'm afraid in six months we'll be doing budget rebalances, so we'll take this commitment budgetally because we've established the individual's obligation to contribute. I'm a little speculative right now, I hope it doesn't work that way, because when we talk about healthcare, it seems to me that we're all in this room together, and we feel the need to talk about this with an increased amount of responsibility, but simply legally speaking, that contribution has been introduced and it can fall on the back of whoever is the bearer of that contribution. But right now, in this place, I'm going to say a few things that are certainly in this story, in this health reform, or in this matter, I need to support with the emphasis that in these issues or through these issues I see a problem that is not enough just to indicate the title of reform. It's a long-term obligation of the health system, the ministry, the whole society if you want me to say so. The first thing is this emphasis on primary health intervention. I think that's a good attitude. We're talking about home health, we're talking about primary health care in a broader sense. We have not so far strengthened this segment of health care particularly in the areas that are mostly deficiting. And especially disabled in health care. We did not strengthen the personnel, we did not strengthen materially, and we did not strengthen from this point of view that this part of the health system is responsible for the health status of the population in that area. You, Mr. Minister, have said that it is often the primary, so the doctor of family medicine puts it in a situation or because of the proposition or because of his behaviour to solve the matter with a manual elsewhere. It is a real danger. The system must be questioned and these people question the responsibility of not being able to do so and that it is not worth it. Both of them are socially irresponsible and it doesn't pay off, it has to be connected. But you know, to get primary health care into a situation where it has to be trained. I would like in some future us as a society or a health care system to achieve this that a health care institution or one health care institution system, let's say at Knin's hospital with what belongs to health care for it is responsible for the health situation in that area. It can't, of course, be invoiced without creating conditions. But it simply has to be achieved as an atmosphere. The second thing I want to particularly emphasize here, is this question, let's say health care on saying so insulated spaces. It's islands. These are numerous spaces in areas of special state care which are multiplely isolated both materially and transportly, sometimes civilised, and particularly health. And now, you can't make a hospital there because it's unreasonable. But if you have a health professional and you get him a good one, let's say a phone or some other connection to the center where the profession is, then he can probably provide health care to that so-called. Mobile, remote, however you want a way much better than the level he's personally trained for. It just seems to me a lot of the terrain is looking for it, a lot of the terrain has a need for it. And I suppose you can see for yourself that this model of coordination must develop because it is necessary and because of the rapid intervention and ultimately will lead to this that you will not drive a man far away for, say, less intervention, so we will get less cost. I recognized that intention in your messages. But I especially mention this here because it's a big bite that needs to be resolved professionally, that needs to be resolved by supplying material conditions and that needs to be resolved very often in people's heads. Maybe even solve people's heads in the first place. The third thing I want to stress here is this issue of planning, so planning investment or planning construction not only in health care, but in society as a whole. I will be free to say here in Zagreb you have a future university hospital and a current handball hall across from each other. We can, of course, argue about the grade I'm going to say. But I am very confident that the affirmation of the Republic of Croatia is much stronger and much more useful in the good functioning of health or in a better quality of health than in good organisation of the handball championship. I don't argue with this one either. But when you can't do anything or when you can't do anything then rational people and a rational state or say different responsible people in their water planning accounts for it. I don't even need it to make a lot of calculations. Now, let me be a little cynical through this metaphor, okay? It is known to me that bread and health are better than bread and games. At least in the papers, this other thing can be more attractive. The fourth thing I mention here is this question, I don't know much about it, but I've seen that's the problem. It's a question of the effect of trade, pharmaceutical trade on doctors. I don't say how much doctors are susceptible to it or succumbing to it. But I do know that the industry of this kind has an interest in taking doctors and professions under its control to make the whole thing commercially false. I believe there's room for greater discipline, greater discipline and professional and financial, but if we're talking about the atmosphere of a lot of things we need to change by changing in our own head. Then it seems to me that some sort of order should be introduced here too. And these are the questions that cause certain fears that the result of what we want so different behaviour in health or how you said health reform that in some or in some ways it no longer succeeds, so I'm afraid that we can't succeed and it's necessary because of the weight of the topic and because of the responsibility that we have to bring to this, it's necessary that we succeed. It's necessary that we succeed. Now I'm going to say something special about this, I've mentioned something, but I'm going to say these fears specifically in the deficit areas. I'm saying it because I'm out of that space and another because I answer in some way for the state and the people in that space. There is, I'm talking about areas that have a development deficit, which have a social deficit, and eventually they have a health deficit. I could count a lot more, but there is, therefore, a total social deficit in those areas. So far, according to the state of that space, we have not acted socially as a whole responsibly. It seems to me even to me that even in health care, we haven't acted together responsibly. On this example of the Knin hospital we had two three years of wandering about what to do with it? So then it was a position... I don't know Sibenik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And no, I'm not talking about Sibenik right now. I'm talking about the problem that's being created here. And then we didn't know how to solve it. I would like this thesis by strengthening health care so on the ground floor, strengthening primary health care or strengthening the entire system locally that what is a hospital, what we will strengthen at home health, what in all people who are dealing with health care in that area will achieve to be connected, to be responsible but to reflect the problem of those people who are older and sicker and have no money and have no money to live on and have no perspective, to stop looking at it all together across the wall or worse over the hill. I hope that what we're talking about today, so health change and what you're up for, and why you provide a guarantee will really work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23979	Thank you. Mr. Andrija Hebrang's club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23980	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The reform ahead is a reflection of the possible. She experienced her transformation simply because it takes place in a very troubled time and 90% of the debate with this speaker was related to the financing of the health system even though we should discuss the organisation itself more. But obviously that's what itches all of us. In which stormy time we are having this debate, I will give an example of what is happening today on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Following "On line Crobex" when we started the debate was minus 1.7, it is now minus 3.10. Two and a half hours. Experts say because the U.S. Senate refused to help the automotive industry tonight. Majority leader of the US Senate said, "I'm afraid to look at the stock market in Europe tomorrow." And he really had to be afraid because there was a breakdown in all Europe's financial markets. I said this only for the introduction so that we can see how much the financial situation affects the largest expenditure item of each state budget if we exclude pensions that are financed in a similar way. So here's why this kind of debate is being held in all the parliaments of all European countries. The fights are equally intense, opinions are equally different. Why? Because three key elements should always be taken into account in creating health reform. One is social sensitivity and social security, first of all, those who are socially at risk. Secondly, the development of the health profession and the opportunities it offers. Third, the political moment in which the reform is brought, and it is closely linked to the financial moment. So all of this together has an impact on the decisions it makes, on the relevant bodies and on this reform that the ministry has made as well. The reform is therefore I would say the maximum possible in this economic and political moment. So when we heard a lot of political and financial considerations about this reform, I would try to explain what is going on in Europe with health systems and where is this reform in this context? Where's that rock of ours in the European mosaic? Not because we will soon become members of Europe, not just that. Let us hope and believe in it and do everything we can to be it rather than and because in the European Union it is already beginning to create a programme to delete borders for health services. So we must not become in line with this system, not at the earliest time, but we must begin because once the limits in the collage are deleted, we must really have a system that is competitive so that our insurance company is not cut off from other European countries' insurance companies. But in European countries, they have the least consensus on how to organise the health system and how to finance it? And when we look at what happened in the history of social security, then we see that we are on, perhaps the greatest historical turning point. Just to remind all those who follow that system. The start of social security is the 19th century Bismarck model. In the 20th century, the Beveridge model was born, the most extensive example is England, which relied largely on a budget that was broadly social and which produced excellent results. What's going on today? For the past few decades, there's been a combination of Bismarck's and Beveridge's models. First, OECD countries and then others began. And we're blended into such a combination. And this model that has been acceptable for the last 30 years, perhaps 40 of most countries, this combination of Bismarck's and Beveridge's models is now in decline even though it is in the largest number of European countries. And if you follow the developments in health insurance in Europe, then you will see in the last Health consumer power house report big "3P" Bismarck Beats Beveridge. Bismarck beats Beveridge. Back to the 19th century. Why? Because this broad social system has become unable to meet all the conditions and requirements of the new economic order, because it is unable to meet the demands of modern medical technology. The equation is very simple. Every year health care services, I speak the average of European countries, of course and Croatia, is, the health system is more expensive every year 10% to 4.5 years ago, and the last 4.5 years 12% a year because new technologies are coming because new medicines are coming. Who knew about the magnetic resonance five years ago? Who could have done it in Croatia and thought we'd be doing 60 liver transplants a year, pancreas and so on. Not to mention the new drugs, the so-called. Smart medicines whose prices today go up to nine figures per dose for patients. It's a 12% increase a year. The system that was financially conditional on the budget cannot monitor this because no country's budget goes up 12% annually. At a good age of five, six, in bad two, and in the worst we'll see below one percent. Therefore, the budget cannot monitor the increase in health service prices. And that is the alarm bell that rings in all European Union countries, we will not tell America because it is a completely different system and is incomparable with European systems and now we have a situation when a pilot project is being implemented in 12 European Union countries. It began in 2005 because of this terrible disproportionate between the rise in the price of health care and the possibility of budget, the increase in budget. The pilot project in 12 countries is being conducted under expert monitoring and has no final opinion yet, but they have already agreed that the return to Bismarck's model is becoming more obvious. Why? Because he involves competition. Competition gives birth to quality. It includes not one, but several health insurance. I'm talking about a vision, for Croatia a distant vision, for other countries not so far away. This Bismarck model, which now again takes a bigger bite to fully equalises access to profitable and non-profit health institutions. What's the prerequisite for that? That the price of health care has a market value. This means that my procedure, which I stand for 2, 2.5 hours in sterile conditions, is not paid 80 kunas, but to be paid at least as much as it is in Germany, Sweden or another European country, means about 400 times as much because it is its real market price, because there are material costs, because there is a learning price involved and everything that makes up the price of one service. Therefore, this is the ultimate objective of the European system, to equalise access to profitable and non-profit providers of medical services. And we will, we won't have to move slowly towards that goal. What I would say is that this direction must not necessarily be very careful, a gradual step by step so as not to endanger those who could not monitor such dynamics with their incomes, or who suffer from severe diseases that make their expenditures greater. What have we done in Croatia, come on in these last 18 years? We drifted from extreme to extreme, but so did the others. We often learned from the experiences of others, but we used to learn from our own. He says, "Smart learns the experiences of others.". Therefore, eyes and ears should be wide open and reports of health system reforms in Europe, but not when they are made, but after 3, 5 and more years to see results. We were wandering because we started reforming the '90s, we inherited 113 challenges, 113 independent financial institutions, we created a state-owned insurance model, we took it out of the treasury, so we took it back to the treasury. Now we're going to single him out again. We're funding the contribution system. Why is it a made-up contribution? So you can be separated from the Treasury. We kept the contribution and put the system in the treasury. So what's the difference between that system that's funded from taxes and this one that's out of contributions when we're in the state treasury system? There is no such system in the world. As for adjusting to new financial conditions, all countries have introduced that one way of covering the price of health services and budgets is partly covered by cash payments, in cash. It's in professional circles and literally called paying "from the poker", out of your pocket. That would be our participation. We've been wandering with her, too. We introduced her first, so we shut her down. The elimination of 5 kuna per prescription resulted in an increase of 25% of drug consumption and health indicators remained unchanged, of course. 25% of the drugs, that's a billion kuna a year. Even for promil, there was no improvement in the pain or fatigue in Croatia. Of course, the pharmaceutical industry took advantage of it and grabbed its bite. Now we've covered the participation with extra insurance. Europe knows supplementary insurance like this one small market segment, so it's in private hands, it works profitablely. It must not cover more than 15% of costs, 85% must be social. We've also included that social sensitivity participation again in state supplementary insurance. So again we're guaranteed by the state and for that part of the system. And that's what's socially sensitive and in this economic future that's directly ahead of us, it's only socially acceptable and that's why it's welcome. But our wanderings have led to some side effects. Let me just mention some. We are the only country in Europe in which the hospital's income has 99.9% of the state budget and therefore the state budget cannot cover it, the only one in Europe. The only one in which whole sick leave goes, those first 42 days from the employer, later from the source of the state budget, and therefore we have 110 thousand working days of sick leave, excuse me, 110 million working days a year. We are the only country in which there are 3 million specialist and consular reviews per year, and that participation is not paid on the market, but on a flat-rate basis. 50, 80 kuna has been for the last 7, 8 years. All I said was wandering. These wanderings are not the result of ignorance or unaccompaniedness but of different attitudes about harmonising all these problems that I've been telling you about. But the biggest dilemma that exists in health funding and no one has solved is that it's social in health care. If I have to pay 20% of the participation for a favor, is it more social for me to pay the state or is it more social for me to pay it out of my pocket? Now in the poll, 99% would say it's more social to pay the state. Today's experts say no, it's just less social. Because this is why the burden on the state budget will be so high that it will burden wages, increase labour costs, increase product prices, make it uncompetitive, inability to sell, reduce jobs. They say today these experts, I'm just quoting them, and it's up to everyone that I judge, that it's much more social to pay 5 or 10% out of my pocket, because that way you can cut the contribution, you can cut the tax, cut the labour price, a competitive product better sell, open more jobs. So even there is no agreement, or different opinions. In this proposal that is before us, in this reorganisation of the system we have determined that this pays the state no matter what the supplementary insurance is, it is under the state cap and the state guarantees it. At this stage, it's only acceptable, but I'm asking a question if the global crisis continues, on what deadline. The second question is whether to pay the health care system from contributions or taxes, a question that also today has an answer. If you pay it out of taxes, then taxes, so you pay out of the state budget and expenses. If you pay him out of contributions then separate him from the Treasury and do as his colleague Hrelja said, self-insurance. We've mixed up the pots here, so we've made a contribution, but not to an independent insurance system, but to a system that's in the treasury, so again under the state cap. So that's where we're waiting to clear up and final decision in the foreseeable future what to do. What is the biggest problem is that all of these elements are brought into line no matter how, the result must be just one, the more levels of health care and the more accessible and in these extremes I would say this reform has found the sureest way, but the only one that is at this point in line with existing economic movements. However, in order not to talk about financing alone now, there is still something to be said about structural reforms, although when we look at them realistically and they are related to funding and all of these problems that I have mentioned here. For example, they now say that the more tax-funded system is structurally better than the one that is more hung up on the state. It's so-called. Mexican model. Why? Tax is money that he went through production, he was paid on a made product. So that's the money that came from creating excess value. The contribution is made before the money is put into circulation to create something because the contribution is made immediately at the source, the tax is given after the sale or as in which country it is settled. So it is considered more rational to direct funding from the budget through taxes than through contributions. The objection to this model is that it's more rational economic, but it's not good when the state rules the system because then it doesn't, I'm talking to the health system because there's no competition, and if there's no competition, there's no quality. We hold such lectures throughout the world, we listen to the experiences of others, and what the only conclusion we can say is, there is no unique model, the only model that is acceptable is that we have to listen and watch with an increase what others do, look and do on their mistakes to learn as little as possible on our own. This proposal, I think, is one compromise of all these demands, and that is why it extends to structural reform. As far as structural reform is concerned, I would like to commend here a few of the most important things, it has already been said, it is the basis for the primary health care that undoubtedly strengthens this. Will there be any better changes? It will. The concession is better than the lease, but so far we haven't had the concession law, so we couldn't define it that way, we had to lease for 15 years which wasn't a good solution, but it was better than the previous one, that's what all the health indicators show. Decentralisation, that 20% of the funds are decentralised towards the counties and that is absolutely a major step after the first withdrawal of the government of the previous coalition government that has allocated decentralised funds for the counties, for the restoration of equipment and for the maintenance of these equipment. What's important is, it's a focus on prevention and here are colleagues on the left-hand side of the hall who said you'd attract the patient, that's the biggest question. We've had all the preventive free checks here, the response is below 50%. We did a free mammography, the response is incredibly low. So we must, with preventive measures in primary, implement what is called health promotion, education through all media, through all institutions. I welcome the Croatian Institute of Emergency Medicine because it is illogical and unnatural for emergency medicine to be organised exclusively in the organization of primary health care, read the home of health, one vertical that will be created by the Croatian Institute towards the county institutions, and financed by the special project of the Council of Europe will surely shorten the time of arrival, will certainly increase education because I underline and education is included in these institutions and will certainly lead to much more quality medical assistance. And last but not least, the law promotes quality, the quality of health services that is a battle we have not yet won, even though we have regulated it with a number of laws, the agency has been established. Here is one of the people who designs, colleague Bagarić, Health Services Quality Agency. This law imposes one particular important thing for me. A quality committee shall be established in each institution and this committee shall establish records of medical errors. We've had to report so far, we doctors have had to report a side effect on the drug, and my complications I've made haven't been recorded anywhere. It is now being taken to register these side effects by which to decide who the doctor is and which institution is good, which is bad and ultimately the patient will also make his choice as a doctor. To conclude, the three laws that represent reform are brave, are a positive step, can be criticised as any other variant, but better than this at this point I'm sure it wasn't possible and that's why we're proposing to adopt this reform as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23981	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23982	A colleague of Hebrang's said that as far as health care is concerned... We return to the 19th century to then deny again that actually the rate of increase in the price of services in healthcare was 12%, which in the 19th century, therefore the rate of growth or the rate of decline of 12% was almost unimaginable. [[You can't hear the speaker because of the announcement.]] As for returning to the 19th century, I would ask that my colleague Hebrang handle it with his party who is working very consistently on it or with his government. This part of the assembly certainly does not accept it, but actually tends in the 21st century in a different way. Secondly, I'd like to ask him not to throw himself out of the bench, that's quite rude.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23983	Yes, but he did not say that Croatia was returning to the 19th century but rather something else. I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23984	That's what I was quoting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23985	That's not what he was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23986	Then...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23987	You're correcting a nonexistent allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23988	I quoted him as a colleague of Hebrang's, respecting the context. Then, if you can, I'll be grateful. Then it's actually Bismarck who needs to be bowed down because Bismarck introduces competition. Bismarck given his iron fist, I don't think he should be mentioned in the competition...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23989	Please, colleague, it's your thinking and judgment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23990	I'm correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23991	Commentary, that's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23992	Then what would that be?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23993	That's your comment. The assessment, the value court on Bismarck's model in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23994	But a colleague of Hebrang was also a court of value.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23995	No, I don't. He can speak valuable courts, he has the right to speak, he spoke on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23996	I have the right to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23997	But you can't correct a court of law through an institute to correct an incorrect assumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23998	I think the court of law can correct another court of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u23999	He can't. You can't correct a court of law. Correction of the incorrect claim means correcting the factual claim. Thank you very much. Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't have the ambition to correct the court's worth. I'll look back on just one sentence. So, in the final review Mr Hebrang said that this law represents, this package of laws is a positive step from the point of view of availability and quality of health care on Croatian islands. This is certainly not a positive step because the obligation of the County to establish a home of health and on the islands were in the previous law and only the possibility is left, it is certainly a step backwards and unfortunately is not a positive step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24001	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the government, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we are in the 21st century, I hope that no one will correct this quote and talk about reforming the health system, but here's the '90s. For years, I've been in health care. In fact, the reform hasn't even stopped. And personally, I don't think it's about any special novelties, any news in the healthcare system proposed by this law, so the situation and the quality of this health system will be improved suddenly and overnight. However, I must say that I am personally, that is my profession, but these 18 years proud of the health system, proud of the workers in the healthcare system starting with that, may forgive me, the lowest rank perhaps carrier in the hospital, administrator, nurses, doctors, specialists, etc. So proud of these people working under extremely difficult conditions. And today they're working under difficult conditions, and I assure you, and you don't have to agree with me, but I'm going to say it's my opinion, so I'm entitled to my opinion and I'd ask that you don't correct my misstatement, because I'm not talking about the fact. I'm talking about my opinion that the health system and the quality of today's health system that to the greatest extent it can thank exactly the profession, precisely ethics, precisely the humanity of all these people who are in the health system, enthusiasm, extremely great enthusiasm. I'm not just talking about my colleagues to doctors, I'm talking about all healthcare professionals. There is no money that can be provided by the state or by Croatia that is needed by the health system to ensure that quality and level we want. That money's gone, and that money can't be secured. But under the current conditions in which we work, it's certainly going to have to, and it's necessary to change the blue book, it's necessary to change the standards, but you know what's necessary? Well, it's necessary to change the prices. So we do business in the health system in a way that is not marketable, but, let me for this pay phone, embarrassing. Well, it's not that prices are like that, it's not a political question. Any government, and there have been occasions in these 18 years, so she hasn't brought market prices, not for my work surgeons the most banal, let's say, surgery of the appendix, was 100 kuna each. I don't know how much it is now, it hasn't changed much. So does a appendage operation need to charge 100 kuna, does someone think it's a market price and do you need to settle how many of them on the team from that price of surgery? He's got ten men on the team. It can't be paid, it has to be settled from some other sources, and it's very difficult. We can have a budget twice as big as we are now, but that's exactly the difference, that cost of costing because we're apparatus and instruments surgically, cardiovascularly, for the needs of specialists, interns, for physical purposes, and we're getting it on the world market. We have top technology, of course not as much as we'd like. Not as long as it takes for us to have quality and high levels, a really high level of health care to say every patient is covered. There's no waiting list. That's impossible. So from somewhere, they have to find the means to cover their deep-dubies. When I say "dubiosis," then I mean these health care recoverys that have been the traits of all governments so far. So, it was always the government who acted independently at the state level that covered health costs from time to time, but from time to time it was common. 19 resolutions, I think 19, 19 rehabs are in health care. 19 health care recoverys have been so far. Somewhere over 10 billion kunas. So we're conscious, as here I don't trust my colleague and Minister Milinovic. I think he knows very well that we may have the basis for all these laws that we're making today, and we're certainly going to have to recapture that health care. Not to this extent how much she's now. At this point I believe that mathematical budgets have been made and that next year 2010 will succeed in covering, but in three years technology will advance, the devices will be amortised. We will also have to re-supply the apparatus, and forgive the doctor’s price of work is not at the level at which it should be. I'm just going to give you one example, one dyspression. But this example, it refers to all health care professionals. I personally think I'm an expert surgeon and a trauma specialist. I've finished my master's degree and my doctorate and I'm a doctor at medical school. But my post in surgery at Osijek Hospital was valued with a 2.27 coefficient and I think the job of a surgeon is far more responsible and requires far more than just responsibility, but also time. It is a duty that I am currently acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. You know what the difference is? That's my personal opinion. The difference is more than double. The salary of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament is 5.27, and the salary of the surgeon is 2.27, and I argue, that is, better said not to correct me. My personal opinion is that as a surgeon, I do far more responsible work, at least that's how I feel, than it is here in the Croatian Parliament as a representative of the Croatian Parliament. But I believe there will be different opinions. But in this part alone, I want to point out in this section the fact that the salaries in Croatian health are what they are. But the HDSSB club doesn't think these bill proposals are perfect. We have a grudge just like the speakers before me. That the law had reached the parliamentary procedure, the laws, the bill, at the last minute. However, I would disagree with a number of colleagues who said there was no debate. Me and my colleagues, and there were calls all over the place. The Croatian Chamber of Chambers, the Medical Chamber, and debates were organised throughout the cities, and there were also a lot of speeches in the media and a lot of debates on the proposals of these three laws. But I have a grudge against the fact that these are the very laws, because I find them extremely important, extremely serious, that they are included in the Parliament's agenda according to emergency procedures and that they did not go into two readings. I think that there should have been enough time before because it is extremely important health laws and more time for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that two readings in the Croatian Parliament can be corrected, some things are done in terms of both improvement and one, and the other, and the third law. Let me just comment on certain things that concern the essential elements that are being passed through this bill. There's been a lot of talk about paying the chieftain. 60 to 40%. So, I think, but we also heard from the speakers for this speaker, that it won't go to such drastic measures, changing the payment system. It would be very good if in the next year, and maybe two, to adjust that system, it would go in a way that would be 90% of the head, and the rest of the 10th, so 10 for profit. Why? Well, they don't all have a thousand, 700 insurance, someone has a thousand, 300 insurance. And this stimulation if it were 40%, the question is, would those with a small number of insurance companies like that, for example, be able to earn that 40% on the islands at all. And in addition, the question that is now being asked, but also through the proposal, is that precisely in those areas where there are not enough insurance companies, certain benefits, or incentives for these doctors working in these parts. So the question is also how in this way and this way of working will be motivated by teams that are now working at health homes and how they will reflect the collective contract they have, or other regulations. Namely, it is guaranteed by collective contracts and by a nurse, or a team, and on the other hand, I think that the question is not clearly addressed enough, how to actually comply with this collective agreement with this fact that the principal is paid and I believe that it will be 90%, those 10% should be further earned by various interventions. I was already saying something about the blue book, and I believe that it would really, that it would be a key part, one of the key parts of the reform, so redefine the blue book, and in particular in the blue book, look back at the existing prices because the prices that are now in place and that are paid by HZZO are really minimal but also different from individual interventions. Different in terms of the value of the price itself, I think that in a large number of cases the price of the service is not in line with its real value. According to the proposal of the Law, the home of health is a fundamental institution of primary health care. However, I think that there remains a little vague role of the health care home and this decentralisation means that for these purposes, the ministry predicts that it will separate in this preventive part, about 435 million kunas were about how much it was said here, and I think that a little and a part of the law should clarify this preventive activity of the health homes and the particular way and methodology of providing funds for these purposes. It is also said that the preferred relationship of primary and specialist-consular health care 3:1 is in favour of primary health care. According to statistics, 60% of medicines and about 50% diagnostic tests, primary healthcare doctors prescribe the basis of the specialist's indication, with 30% of the findings never being raised and 80% of the disease is not because it is prescribed by the family doctor but because it is based on the recommendations and indications of specialists or specialist-consular health care. In that part, I think that we specialists should also take our part of responsibility if this problem is going to be solved in a way that may form two types of review manuals and an opinion when referred to specialists in consular health care or for diagnostic procedures, or that it may be possible to resolve what seems logical to me, given that specialists and all doctors have their identification number, so by means of an identification number, so that information is ongoing, so that we know exactly who prescribed and which doctor is sick, or that we are not seducing only the doctor of family medicine. What he estimates through sick leave and indicates in order, but what he indicated by a specialist in consular health care I think it should be recorded through the care of specialists or through the care of specialist-consular health care. I would just like to draw attention to the problems related to the public health financing system, as regards a specific case for micro-biological services of the Public Health Office, there is a limit. The limit also has the Public Health Institute of Osijek-Baranja County. But what happens? It happens that this limit, which was determined to be fulfilled two months before the end of the financial year, and then everything that is invoiced over the limit, for example the Public Health Office of Osijek-Baranja County for 2007, was invoiced by a million and 350 thousand kuna with VAT for 2007, given the limit that this amount was beyond the limit of this amount of the Croatian Health Insurance Office did not pay. The Institute of Public Health is next to this service despite the invoices paid back by VAT. Therefore, this amount of millions and 350,000 kuna directly to the Institute of Public Health has not been charged to the day of today. I think the problem is also in other institutions, the county public health services, so here I suggest that this part also takes care of itself, and that this is not repeated, or that in a legal or otherwise manner, it is resolved by the Ministry of Health. There's also a problem with paying VAT for that health care unit at the Public Health Office, I don't think there's any point in paying the VAT. But I see I'm running out of time. In the end, I would like to conclude that the HDSSB club will, and I hope, also respect the comments made. So, the HDSSB club will support all three legislative proposals without the illusion that they give final solutions and irreplaceable solutions that are actually permanent but we also think at this time that given the consent of the Economic and Social Council, given the final debate we have and the state of health system and 3 billion and 700 million kunas of losing that these three laws should be adopted, we will raise our hands but we also expect this reform to continue and expect the Ministry of Health to press the Government and press the Minister of Finance and to ensure that the finance is provided for what we here in the Croatian Assembly to conclude that the level of quality of healthcare is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24003	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24004	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would only have had one thing to do with my colleague Šišljagic's findings so that he would disagree if there was no public debate. If the public debate had been held then, the Minister would have told us, with this material that we received and the results of this public debate, not only how many presentations, how many people participated, but for example, whether the doctors of family medicine supported this reform, whether they were objections and whether they were the other way around. In the end, I think it was just one-way information, not a public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24005	You're saying it's an incorrect claim? Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24006	Here, Mr. Vice President, it's about that it's not a correction to the incorrect assumption, I haven't even made facts and claimed there wasn't any public debate, I've pointed out that in my opinion the debate was held and it was conducted in both the media and the big cities, and that's a fact. So, this is almost certainly said for over 2 months, at various meetings, in the Croatian Medical Chamber, in the Croatian Medical Assembly, in hospitals, through the media, I was saying that my opinion could also be involved in the debate and have insight, but I also said that this material came late to the Croatian Parliament, when we talk about MPs and those who decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24007	Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24008	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, however, we have reached the goal, we have begun to discuss the reform of the health system with real arguments and from the level of profession and I am very pleased about it. But I have to answer, I don't know if all the parameters that involve a public debate, whether they're involved in this debate, I've called it a public debate in two months, but if anyone thinks in this House that the social partners, the unions, would accept this bill if a broad public debate hadn't been conducted. I'm about to ask that question. If all the parameters by some scientific principle are involved in this public debate, I really don't know. I was out in the open, and after four or five years, phones were open on "Open," on HTVU. I've been on 10 radio stations where they are, I've asked only to talk to those who report to that show. But you can't kill, so I almost don't know if in the last 10 years one topic has had more discussion than this one. I didn't have an introduction when, I didn't have time to mention, someone told an ambulance reform. Here, today the government is ambushing, I'm here, there's a secretary of state and we're passing a law confirming the loan agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 18.1m euros. It seems to be moving towards emergency medical reform, the total project is at 40m euros and will last between 3 and 5 years. For what? He's working to level the standard. Today we have emergency medical care on three levels, four institutions in large cities, emergency medical services, then in the health care homes through emergency services and through the preparedness of family, family medicine teams, somewhere 500 teams carry out this medical emergency. And in this way we want to level the standards and they are now unequal. Those who are in large cities of an emergency medical facility have these standards, we will say much better than we have in the area of special care. Your colleague Šišljagić mentioned the islands and areas of special state care, of course we had special attention about it, so here we are talking about the two of us when we already had special protection indices, I would say those who can't have 1700 patients or who have below that level or the number of 1700 patients. The blue book, I said one. 1st year, I agree with everything you said about the price of service in health, the blue book becomes the past, the DT system is a system of new payments and I would say both labour values and at all levels of health care. But just a few words about the misunderstandings about the mains that we said that if we said that it would be 60% at the end of a transitional period, we didn't think it would be of today's 100% headline, 60% would negotiate with the Croatian Health Insurance Office. And family medicine will negotiate 20% with health care homes, and so far they've negotiated with HZZO, so they'll have two contracts, one with a health home with HZZO. These 20% that will negotiate with the home of health, have so far negotiated with the HZZO and have thus been paid for house visits, preventive checks, continuity of health care and patronage. So, we can say if we reshape it that 80% will remain fixed and 20% of the price times the services and, I'm, why I said it's a transitional period, you can't price the service times at the current level of the health care price in primary health care. What we will say from 1 Corinthians 1: One, it won't happen again, or come on, don't take me for word one. One, but at the beginning of the year, it won't have to happen that a primary health care patient comes into primary health care and says, "Your doctor works tomorrow morning and can't do his exam." So if the patient comes in this afternoon and his doctor's gone, he's gonna have to take this other one, as I am by noon, I'm gonna have to take your patient. So let's go, careful. Why be careful? So that we do not suddenly make major changes in primary health care, but the contract entity for the primary healthcare doctor will, therefore, be, apart from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, 60%, 20% with health care homes, so we can say that 80% of these principals are fixed, only the terms of the contract are something different. If we're talking about public discussion and some polls. Here's after the first public debate, on the zeroth day I said, in front of 1,500 people, but that was the profession. Here's the first public debate, here at the HYPO Center, I think there were 1,500 people, all the mayors, all the heads of health, all the mayors in charge of health care, all the medical chambers, primary health care, all the directors of the health homes and all the hospital directors. And I insisted after that first public debate, after my presentation of the health system reform proposal to do a survey and was divided, these ballots, the survey sheets were divided during my debate and here I will tell you the results. With 4 and 5, it estimated 1500 with 4 and 5, it estimated 65%, the people who were there, it wasn't a party event. I note once again, all the mayors, all the mayors, all the heads of the city of Zagreb, all the directors of the health homes, all the hospital directors and primary health care with a good 22% rating, with a score of 2 and 1 13%. These are polls of course that were conducted after that, on the first day of the public, I wanted to actually do this, and after that we did not conduct polls after, here were a thousand and a half people in Split. We didn't conduct that poll. But after that first presentation, and it caused a certain shock in the Croatian public, I wanted to actually check out what people think when they hear in direct contact what a reform of the health system is, and here I read you the information about how they were after that first survey. Diseases. I said the problem must be two billion and 300 million kuna. Out of that, half the state budget, half the employers pay for their stay in the Republic of Croatia. I agree, and we must not allow a joint effort to place all the burden on the responsibilities of the primary health care doctor. We already have a system to monitor which doctors are specialists who prescribe and suggest sick leave? We really mustn't put the primates in a position that I, as a gynecologist, recommend the oxy person, give the patient sick and then primary health care: E no. We therefore follow and now that specialists and how they recommend these diseases so that the joint responsibility can also be borne by secondary health care and primary health care so as not to place primary health care in a subordinate position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24009	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24010	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister said he could not be disputed that a public debate had been held. Yes, it was conducted consistently as Vice President Friščić said in the public debate as you organised it and it was organised in a way that you personally had certain, generally in front of television and elsewhere oral thesis that was being discussed at the time. And there wasn't this material that we now have here in front of us for the last four days with the state budget when we were completely blocked by that first job that we couldn't even look at these materials. So these materials that were supposed to be on the public scene have now come and now we have to discuss them now and adopt them immediately. That's what it's about, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24011	And Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said that it would actually lead to the unification of emergency reform standards, but I would not say that, that would be so, because when emergency medical attention is mentioned then there is no mention of urgent dental assistance. And just for the sake of specificity, it is, in fact, necessary to provide resources and define how emergency dental assistance is implemented. And if I can do one more? May I? So I am correcting the same thing, Mr. Minister said that "the blue book" will no longer be used. [[What are you correcting?]] But I wonder by which, then, will the "blue Book" still leave that basket or the chieftain in dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24013	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Well, here's a lot of talking about whether it was a public debate, wasn't it? I know there's a monologue, dialogue and debate in some communication theory. So now you can judge for yourself what this has been all about until the arrival of a package of health laws in this assembly, and I cannot stress once again that a package of health laws has been sent to, say, the roof institution of all doctors of the Medical Chamber with the indication that they are obliged to submit their observations within 48 hours, which is at least unserious. When we talk about the reform of Croatian health care, she has taken mythical proportions. It is a myth that has been passed down from knee to knee since Vlahusic, all ministers, and so is the myth and this part of what the current Minister Milinovic was talking about, and he has turned into mythical proportions his reform, which he also carried with oral surrender again from knee to knee. It is said that this reform is structural, that it is not financial. Here I would like to invite you to the Ministry of Health to look at the example of the Ministry of Justice, which, when drawing up an action plan, cited 195 measures to be implemented to fight corruption, would be more successful than it has ever been. Please state the 195 measures in this reform and then let's see how much of the 195 measures are reformal, structural, and how much is financial? I think you'll be surprised. The SDP comes from health care being the part for which the entire government is responsible. That's why when this government was appointed, it would be much better if we had a minister of health. When the English did their reforms, they showed that all the health care system was in charge of 30% of the changes that needed to improve health and the rest was divided into other sectors. That's how it'd show up with us. Both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Regional Development, each of them has a responsibility to improve health in Croatia. And as our government wanders about what is seen in a budget that we don't even know what it's going to be like then it's clear that it's wandering around looking for a solution to reform, let's call it health reform. We heard that from Professor Hebrang that I absolutely agree with, therefore, that the world health costs are rising at a rate of 10% to 12% due to population ageing, due to technological progress, because of new medicines, and let's break down a drug fam in Croatia. The price of medicines in Croatia is determined by the rules and is 75% the price of reference countries, which are in general Italy, France and Spain. Therefore, the drugs are not the cause of the difficulties that Croatian health care has. The reason is that we kept hiding our health debts for five years back. We hid them in a way that the debts accumulated because there was no regular payment. And the debt in a year was usually two billion. And it's been running from year to year. And when we pointed out in the 2008 budget that the debt in Croatian healthcare is 4 billion, two actual and two that arrive at the charge we are called disaster seekers. And she's been lost for another year. If the right reform had taken place then we could probably discuss here today the achievements of the reform that should be implemented by the end of this term. We stand for solidarity, comprehensively available health care. It is also claimed that this reform has resolved that the debts recovered in hospitals have already allowed all citizens in Croatia to have medicines equally available which is not true. I unfortunately have a sad letter from a man who sold everything to provide himself with the medicine he was taking, and here he takes it for two years from 17.11.2006 to 4.11.2008. He spent 283,000 kuna on this drug. Unfortunately, even the state had to pay VAT 55 thousand kuna. So can't this VAT state return to the man who sold the cottage and the land to buy himself a drug that according to all the guidelines of the European Oncology Associations and the doctor is the medicine to get, and now he's all sold out, no more money, he can't buy it anymore. And he's been living for two years, and it's been said he won't wait six months. That's how much medicine is available to all of us. We heard three things from the Minister of Health. The slide said that the expensive drug fund next year would get 400 million. The budget we received said 610 million, and today he said 510 million. So how do we talk when we have 3 different figures about, say, a key segment of the availability of medicines for the most difficult patients in Croatia. The real reform has to start from home to health. What is proposed in a health care home with concessions which question is how consistent they are with the Law on concessions actually devastates the home of health and the question is to what extent can we talk about the printing concept. The printing concept has 10 principles. I won't bother you with them. I call upon the gentlemen of the Ministry of Health to read these ten principles and see how consistent they are with what the press was talking about. Unfortunately, this reform of Dr Milinovic is only in function of the survival of the current system, not in the function of reorganising the health system. And what's gonna happen. In a year we'll be back where we are now. With new debts, nothing will be resolved. What concerns me in particular is the additional burden of regional and regional self-government units where they are imposed by very large powers, very large obligations through the law of Article 4, Article 9, Article 14, and in fact no means are provided anywhere because what the minister is saying to the decentralised means for preventive programmes is a drop in the sea of the needs of local self-government units. Here, I was for a while at the Emergency Management Council where due to legal obligations the funds received from the Croatian Health Insurance Office force the Emergency Medical Assistance Institute of Rijeka to the loss business. This loss must be compensated by the founder, i.e. The County of the coastal-goranska, which is not to blame for such legal frameworks, which is, by means of such collective contracts, an emergency medical care facility is forced to operate with a loss, and then, in Article 56, it is stated, that if the loss, if they carry out activities from a health institution, is a loss, that loss shall be covered by the founder and the founder is not to blame. It can't be like that. It is particularly worrying that in that small sum of money that the Ministry of Health actually has, you don't spend your money, you don't spend it with a fig in your pocket, then in a secret session without the Parliament knowing anything about it redistributing. Thus, funds to improve health care on islands from 15 million to 8 million kuna. It's probably where those helipads that are virtually to solve the problem of health care on the islands disappeared. It's tragic that in a budget that's virtual again, because we don't know what numbers are real, but it'll probably just be worse for health care than those that are proposed. Let's say breast cancer prevention is 30% cut off. Is it a struggle for prevention programs that we've been boasting about since we've brought health care promotion programmes into this called reform? There's a whole series of other illogicalities in the proposed law that just shows how fast it was done. Why did we have to go so fast with this law? Why didn't a really quality debate take place so that then.../The speaker turned off and re-enabled./... parts. I'll make the amendments. But once again, I want to point out the need to resolve decentralisation differently in terms of fiscal decentralisation of local self-government units. Article 27 basically identifies gynecologists and recipients, which is absolutely unacceptable in view of their education related then to the monitoring of malignancies, the treatment of diseases, birth management. Article 70 also states that 71 must be established by the Committee on Medicinal Products and Quality. Let's just say he's gonna take care of one of the health care guys in the medical department. How does she even have it? In this way, paragraph 76. According to this item, practically in Zagreb there cannot be a single home of health, let alone three or four, so please check the allegations that are listed. The home of health is completely out of the protection of mental health, home of health. Where's the hospital treatment outside? However, in the Institute of Public Health, prevention, and out of hospital treatment, which should allow addicts not only to be treated methodically, but also some new treatments would be the closest to the home of health. You're missing a pharmacy. There's no pharmacy anywhere behind Article 80. Pharmacy is known to be part of primary health care. Did you get that out of primary health care? Finally, I would like to point out once again that this model of concession, such a model for local self-government units, poses a significant threat to the existence of a home of health and in some way destroys the foundation of the printer's concept that would have to enable all of us to have a solidarity, comprehensive and accessible health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24015	Thank you. Three corrections and one replica. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you obviously didn't read these three laws. First, it's incorrect for our government to wander. What time do you live? This government is not wandering, because this reform depends precisely on the economic conditions both in our country and outside, and we are witnessing global crises and changes that occur from day to day. It is not true that drugs are not available. Well, you're a fellow doctor. There's a drug commission in every hospital. The list of waitings from three months to two weeks for these drugs has been shortened. I don't know what kind of example you're talking about, but it should certainly be discussed by one expert Committee on Medicinal Products.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24017	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, there were several incorrect allegations. I'll fix it. I will quote first what Mr. Honorable Representative Jovanovic said. He says their homes of health are now being ruined even more. I really don't think you read the material then. It is this new reform of the home of health that returns to that position needed in primary health care, that they be carriers, organisers of all preventive actions and what will be under this new reform. Also, emergency medical care that goes into reform under this new law that we will adopt in the Assembly, and the doctor’s association in emergency medical care. The Association of Emergency Medical Assistance in Croatia asked for reform precisely to go this way and do not make losses. They are mostly the most profitable part of all health homes in Croatia. That's an incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24019	And Mr. MP Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24020	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, counterpart Strikic corrected this allegations by his colleagues, Jovanovic, that the home of health is crumbling to the bottom. I just want to add to that part. Of course he must also ensure availability and continuity, but I would like to remind only in this place, that at least on your left, many times even at that press conference was called from home to health and I think this part of the home of health is affirmed and that it will come to its full term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24021	Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to support your efforts to improve the state of heliodrom on the islands, and more so, according to the report of the Split-Dalmatia County County's County Health Office of 24 heliodroms on the islands of Split Dalmatian County, 2 on the mainland, 1 on the island of Lastovo, which is in the second county. Even 17 of them are now in no condition to perform flights, especially at night. I would also like to say that the existence of emergency emergency medical assistance via helicopters, so by means of many airways, improves the availability of health care on islands, although relatively rarely used, these flights are always media-accessed, and are even more monitored if they can't happen due to poor weather conditions. But the bigger problem is that in two county hospitals in the area of the two southernmost districts of the helipad is next to the hospital, not adequately designed. Today in Free Dalmatia, it says that patients who are transported to a general hospital in Dubrovnik actually land on Chile and still have 25 kilometers to drive to a general hospital, while patients who land next to the Firula Clinical Hospital in Split also have problems with landing due to construction works on nearby buildings. So there happens to be a helicopter because of the natural air current it produces to get material from those buildings to end up in someone's head. And as for the budget side, here's the last sentence, Mr. Vice President, probably not intended because there are a large number of property-legal problems like on the island of Mljet, so they can't be finished, and unfortunately they haven't yet, saving human lives isn't yet at this level of national interest as golf courses that can be made, so maybe the funds aren't foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24023	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bauk, what you're saying, is exactly on the trail of what I'm saying from the beginning of my debate that for health, and for instance, the island's health is not only responsible for the Ministry of Health, but the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Regional Development, which was supposed to solve the problem of heliodrome, and obviously it didn't solve it, and the question is when will be resolved is visible from the means in this budget that it's a virtual story again. As regards the emergency assistance that is part of all of this, it best shows Article 213, which does not specify a Regulation on non-patient emergency medical care that should continue to apply until new regulations are settled in accordance with Article 211.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24025	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24026	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Since the debaters' clubs had 20 minutes each for us singles at least 12.5 tolerate for a united debate. Thank you. The minister said the unions supported the reform, employers' associations supported it, pensioners' associations supported it, the government suggests. Now there is another category, and these are insurance companies because we are discussing the Insurance Act, and we will obviously need to arbitration in Parliament between those who have supported, those who oppose, who propose to believe in the best hope that the time will actually show whether the reform gives effect as explained or not. Furthermore, I support what the minister has announced is that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is going out of the state treasury, but not only the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, but I think the pension institution should also get out of the state treasury and that the HZZO treats what is called insurance. It's not a fund. It's insurance. And this proposal for me, I would support it, but unfortunately there is no minister if he would accept and fight for my 2009 health funding proposal. According to the state budget we had read from the title of the contribution, it is planned to raise 19 billion 774 million kuna. The planned expenditures are 25 billion 206 million. I repeat, 19 billion 700 is a contribution. 3 and a half billion kuna of excise duties per tobacco should go directly to the Croatian Health Insurance Office. That's 23 billion 200. Let Minister Shuker pay the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of more than 2 billion persons entitled to health insurance under the law under Article 95 or 3. That's 25 billion 700. I repeat that the Ministry of Finance has denied HZZO for more than 2 billion kunas of health insurance funds under the Health Insurance Act, which goes to the burden of the state budget and is still somewhere around a billion kunas of unpaid contributions from legal entities in the Republic of Croatia at the end of last year, and that is 26 billion kuna. And I want to believe that 26 billion would really be enough to implement this programme. Furthermore, I think there are items that should come out of the expenditure side of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute because they are not health care. I'm just going to count three child-bearing benefits. It's the State Fund for Intelligent Policy, not the Institute for Health Insurance. Help in the event of death. It's a social category and there's nothing to do in health insurance, at the Health Insurance Office. And insurance on the burden of the state budget defined in Article 6 of this law would once again single out only three categories here. Farmers referred to in point 7. Try to audit the Croatian Institute’s regional offices, the audit from the persons referred to in point 7 of Article 6, you will find at least 10% of the deceased and at least 15% of the people on the list, and in Croatia they do not have a residence or are not present for more than 15 years. Because the revision of that list was never done, except when I ordered it in 2003 in my field office. Point 8. Priests and other religious officials who do not have health based work. And why wouldn't they have health insurance based on work? Why don't they have health insurance based on work? Especially since Croatia has financing contracts with most religious communities registered. And 12, unemployed persons residing in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or foreigners. False residents of the Republic of Croatia who are resident in Croatia, and see further Article 63, they are burdened by the state budget, have registered residences to obtain certain benefits from health, pension and social insurance. If you just make that inventory and save a million kunas in one year, each year that savings will grow bigger and bigger. So I'm saying that everything that's not health insurance goes out of the Croatian Health Insurance Office and that it goes outside the Treasury. Article 16 sets out which rights insurance companies acquire from compulsory health insurance and how much is the minimum participation for which services, for example laboratory checks will be paid 15 kunas, specialist 25, specialist diagnostics 50, orthopedic 50, consular 25, day BO in hospital 100, i.e. it is maximumed to 2.997,00 kuna for the next financial year. However, in order to assess the actual contents of the compulsory health insurance basket, this law is not sufficient. Because Mr. Minister, you know that the right basket will be known when the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance adopts a new rule on the rights and way of achieving those rights and now I ask you to be responsible at the Croatian Health Insurance Office as a resolution minister to force and force, to make this information, based on the conclusion of the Croatian Assembly of 14 March this year, which has tasked HZZO with making available to its insurance companies after radical changes, such as this reform in the form of a guide in writing through the regional offices and primary health care services as much as possible, because it is the right to information, and especially when insurance workers know their rights, one of the ways to prevent and prevent corruption and bribes in health, unnecessary waiting lists and all the negative that is happening in health. So I will not value this basket just on this basis until the Croatian Health Insurance Institute publishes a new rule on rights and how to achieve it. Since I did not receive a bonus in time, as regards the concession, county concessions in primary, see Articles 9, 40 and 41, the word that the concession decision will be made by the county headship. May, I think you line it up right now. And I'm done with the proposal, because the minister was gone at the beginning of the debate. Mr. Minister, I will vote in favour of this law on condition that you accept and implement my proposal for a health funding model for this year. It contributes 19 billion 744, I read from the budget. It costs 25 billion, 3.5 billion excises from tobacco directly to you. 2.5 billion approximately Minister Schuker owes you under Articles 95 or 3 for the axles secured on the burden of the state budget that need to be sat in HZZO's treasury and a billion kunas of unpaid health contributions from businesses, signed prolongates, delays and all those circuses, that's 26 billion of my proposal for you to have for next year 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24027	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24028	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, co-workers from the Ministry of Health. At the beginning of my debate, as I come from primary health care, I dare even say that this is a personal historic day for me in health care in development and through this reform of the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I would say at the beginning is that through all these articles, all three laws stand out individual, patient, man as the most important factor in health care with one holistic approach to the patient, but at the same time it is asked for responsibility and it is very good. With regard to the solutions to be provided with this legislative proposal, there are four such objectives and the objectives of the health care system are as follows: First, health planning, setting up a network of public health services. According to the public health services network, the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the unit of the regional self-government, needs a number of health institutions and private health workers with whom the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is contracting to implement healthcare, and the plan and health care respects the health status, number, age and social structure of the population. Then equal conditions, i.e. opportunities for the use of health services. Furthermore, the scope of a particular healthcare activity is needed. Next, the degree of urbanisation of the area, transport connections, specificity of population and accessibility in demographically threatened areas, particularly in islands. Furthermore, the environmental impact on the health of the population and lastly, I would say here under that plan, economic opportunities. Two would say what many have already said, strengthening primary health care as a basic element of integrated health care. Thus, according to the proposed law, the home of health is a fundamental institution of health care at the primary level of health care, which must ensure that the principle of comprehensiveness, full access to primary health care, and the principle of availability and continuity of healthcare in its field. The proposed solutions seek to achieve the repositioning of the home of health in order to provide health care primarily focuses on curatives, target to a greater extent the preservation and improvement of health and disease prevention. There is a very important and group private practice and gives special importance in strengthening it. In accordance with the reform outlined in the definition of decentralisation of powers, organisation and obligations in the exercise of health activities, and thus strengthening the position of units of the regional (regional) self-government in the field of health according to the proposed legal solution, the concession for public health care services to private healthcare professionals and health institutions is given by the county, i.e. the City of Zagreb, on the basis of a defined network of public health services. The proposed law also contains specific provisions relating to the Treaty on concessions. It should necessarily contain provisions on the type of health activity to be carried out on the basis of a concession, the scope of public service, the start of application of the concession and the award of concessions for a period of 10 years and the concession fee. Under three, he would say something about decentralisation of powers, organisation and obligations in the performance of health activities. It aims to achieve the objective of primary health care in a decentralised way to co-operate with all health community factors. In order to achieve rights, obligations, tasks and objectives in the field of health care in its field, a unit of regional self-government under the proposed law shall establish a Health Council. The composition of the Health Council should allow for the participation of representatives of local self-government of professional associations, associations for the protection of the rights of patients, trade unions and health employers in the planning and evaluation of health care in the field of the unit of regional self-government. In order to achieve its tasks, the Health Council shall give an opinion on the proposal for a health care plan for the area of the unit of the regional self-government and on the proposed measures to ensure the availability of quality of health care in the regional self-government unit. And under four, the reorganization of emergency medical care we've heard a lot about today. Thus, along with the establishment of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, the law provides for the establishment of county emergency medical services in the context of established tasks and tasks of units of regional and regional self-government. The assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the proposed law over the next three years will need to be provided for about 360 million kuna, and for the purpose of what I have already said today, the establishment of a comprehensive emergency medical system has been provided by means of a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the minister also mentioned, amounting to 348 million 925 thousand 577 kuna. The 2009 State budget also plans to provide another 3 million and 400 kuna for the purpose of improving emergency medical care. And finally let me express my great gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Minister Milinovic, who, with his team, has given a lot of energy in this reform and which we will support anyway. And allow me to thank this hour and Professor Minig for constructive discussions, and he is also our president of the Croatian Medical Chamber and who has helped us make this reform meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24029	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24030	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary of the Ministry, fellow MPs. These three laws represent the whole and should be seen in the package as measures to implement the reform of the overall health system. In a broader sense, part of this package is also the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions as amendments to that law are conditional upon the implementation of health reform. The Health Protection Act regulates the system of measures and activities to provide health care to the population from prevention and early detection of disease to treatment and medical rehabilitation. The law regulates the conditions and methods of performing health activities in Croatia. Compared to the current solutions, greater attention is paid to strengthening primary health care and the role of health homes. Among other things, a different emergency medical care organisation is envisaged to make the emergency medical care available under equal conditions as many users as possible, which will be cared for by the new institution, the Croatian Medical Aid Office. The great news is the introduction of the possibility of giving concessions by the county and the City of Zagreb to provide health services in a particular area. It is important to stress that the concessionary must respect the contract on the work of the healthcare professional found in this health care activity and which will continue to work. The concessionary is obliged to respect a collective contract for this health and health insurance activity when determining salaries to a healthcare worker, which has not been a particular feature of the health care activity so far. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act regulates important issues for persons who are insured in the health insurance system and the conditions under which they exercise the right to health care. This law brings several significant newspapers. The first is that for all persons who, according to current regulations, are exempt from participation in the settlement of health care costs, they are freed from participation in the price of treatment. Instead, the general exemption is imposed on state institutions to pay additional health insurance from the state budget for them in favour of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Second, all insured persons, with very few exceptions, undertake to participate in the settlement of all costs of treatment at 20% of the price, but at least in the amount that is different for certain types of health services. That's how it's gonna work, for example. for each day spent on hospital treatment, participations are 20% of the price and at least 100 kuna per day. For laboratory search in primary health care, participation will be 20% of the price and at least 15 kuna, etc. And according to the current law, the obligation to participate in the costs of treatment has been prescribed, and the amount has been determined in different percentages from the price of health services from 15 to 50%. It is important to stress that according to the current law, socially sensitive categories of the population will not be put in a more unfavourable position because they will be subject to the obligation to pay for supplementary health insurance from which the costs of participating in the treatment price will be borne by the state budget. Certain categories of persons and certain forms of treatment continue to be excluded from the obligation of the insurance company to participate in the costs of treatment. This primarily applies to children up to 18 years of age, then to diseases associated with pregnancy, childbirth, infectious diseases, HIV diseases, infections and others. The new Health Insurance Act has more detailed rights to compensation for insurance workers who have been established invalidity by the competent authority of pension insurance in the skill process. The 18-month stay will be paid at the same rate as before, but for the next 18 months, 50% of the pay base will be received, but no longer than three years. Such provisions seek to rationalise the use of the right to be sick with the compensation of salaries on the burden of health insurance funds. And there's been an end to what we've been talking about forever, and I have to say that this minister has appreciated precisely the search for social partners at yesterday's meeting of the Economic and Social Council. Otherwise, the conditions for determining the amount of sickness benefits have not been changed. Furthermore, the sickness compensation shall be determined by the average salary received by the insurance undertaking over the previous 6 months, provided that it has previously had an insurance status of at least 12 months. If there is no such status, then his fee is set at 25% of the budget base, which is 831.50 kuna per month. It is certain that the new Health Insurance Act will agree to a number of insurance companies to provide additional or even additional health insurance. Additional insurance enables users to cover the costs of participation in the price of health services, so those who have an additional insurance policy do not pay for participation in treatment. Additional health insurance gives even greater rights, such as the right to a higher medical standard service, which again depends on the content of the policy agreed with the insurance company. For unemployed persons, for persons with the status of a Croatian military disabled, for voluntary blood donors, men more than 35, and women with more than 25 blood donations, for students and students who are not insured as family members, for all citizens whose income is lower than prescribed censorship, and I will remind you that this is a thousand 516 kuna per family member, and for other insured persons who can be subjected to socially sensitive groups, group populations, additional health insurance will be paid from budget funds. So these people won't feel the burden of health reform. And the law continued to retain part of the social component for socially sensitive groups of citizens. So the administrative fee, as well as the fee on the prescriptions of 15 kunas, will not be paid by pregnant women as well as by a million and 6 thousand 579 persons in Croatia. And in this group are children, pensioners, Croatian people with disabilities, part of employees, unemployed, students, etc. So these social components were recognized by the social partners of the Economic Social Council and therefore unanimously supported this package of health laws, i.e. this health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24031	Thank you. It is now up to representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24032	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the debate on the health care package. about health reform, we've heard a lot. The minister announced two key things. One is the financial stabilisation of the health system, the other is structural reform. Of course common sense says that one without another can't. I believe the minister knows what citizens expect from this reform. But the question is does he know how to make it possible? Citizens are interested in what really hurts them the most. Citizens would, of course, not have HZZO reduces sugar bars to diabetics anymore. Citizens would not be threatened by pharmacists, and patients with shortages of medicines, citizens would not be spared on a rescue drug against Hepatitis C. That there is no corruption and that there is no crime in supplying orthopaedic aids, that disabled people are not inaccessible and disabled commissions etc. In translation of this reform with all its financial and structural changes, it should actually be a cure for one extreme hypocrisy of Croatian health care. And if you were a cure for that, that would be great. Because the system is truly extremely hypocritical and gives, as we all know together, rights to patients that it can't actually achieve. That's why we have the ranks, that's why we have the waiting lists, that's why we have corruption, that's why some of us can afford to say some patients have to die. The system is hypocritical because the patient is legally entitled to certain health care, but for a thousand and one reason he cannot achieve his right to do so. You're looking at me a little weird, but I guess you're aware that's the situation we're in right now, right? The minister says that's why we're going to reform. The only question is what this reform is essentially bringing. Will the health system manage to cure the hypocritical financial stabilisation of the system. Well, I have to admit, from this morning's presentation, the minister has concluded that he thinks it's possible. Because he says, I've introduced savings, I've introduced restrictions, it's how the wind was expressed to patients this morning, and then he says, and you see, despite all that, there's been an increase in hospitalisation, there's an increase in the number of specialist examinations as if it's a confirmation of what he claimed. But I have to tell him that my colleagues who work in these same hospitals tell me that the cost of division has dropped drastically and that it basically goes to the expense of quality health care patients he's talking about. So if my colleagues are lying, then I'm not telling the truth either. In addition, the minister says, you see the financial stabilisation of the system has led to the fact that you in Rijeka no longer have waiting lists for "Stents". If the minister were here, I would tell him, if it weren't for his reforms, his savings, but that's because the Department of Health and Social Care, the city of Rijeka, to which I have led in the last year, the Department of Cardiology for Intervention Cardiology and the "Stentova" gave more than a million kunas. So, I don't see the structures, and I'd like to, believe me, I'd like to, but I don't see any structural reforms that, or structural changes to health that the minister is talking about. Because I'm going to give you concrete examples. This package of laws, i.e. this package of laws, brings or leaves dilemmas related to e.g. geriatric patients, for terminally ill patients, which is with hospital care, which all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have by law, but do not have, because they cannot, because we do not have hospital care. What about the dilemmas in the pharmaceutical industry? A colleague mentioned the role of the county. So the county's powers through advice, etc. It's going to be a lot bigger, but there's a question of where the finances are for all of it, who's going to pay for it all together. Today, doctors of primary health care at least those with whom I have spoken with great fear and with a lot of dilemmas expect this reform. The minister says he talked to them. Okay, I've talked to her, too, but then I'm surprised if the minister talked about why they're so afraid of that reform. But then when the minister said this morning, so you know the chieftains between 90% and 96%, then I realized it was completely different from what he was saying a month ago. No wonder everyone's scared of cutting their head off to 60%. Too many primary healthcare doctors are not satisfied with the proposal for reform. They say she is not talking about entering services, not talking about financial values, they are unhappy because of the continuous statistics and their reports, they are unhappy with the fact that over some lips have easily crossed the words that family doctors are not working enough, that they issue too many instructions. It would be good if the minister had sent an expert group to the field amongst the doctors of family medicine and had spent at least a few days there and met the real situation on the ground and then it was an incentive for some quality steps and changes in primary health care, to ask these people who work there. It seems to me, and I would like to make a mistake that this reform proposal will not significantly improve the mood or the numerous nurses on the ground, and we heard a number of praises this morning about this very staff. I'm talking about nurses who conduct health care, the care of extremely difficult patients most often immobilized. I'm not going to refer to articles, I'm going to give you concrete examples. Here, listen. And I'm not just saying this to criticize. I'm talking because I've noticed that through the laws these elements are not covered, so these problems are not solved. The dilemmas have been left behind. That's why I'm sorry the minister isn't here to hear it. For example, in the Primorje-Goran County we have for many years so-called switch norms but all that is done is according to the approvals, according to the solutions of the medical committees. Therefore, on the basis of which norms or commissions are made, they do not work properly. And then, for example, it happens on the ground that in the fourth month, bills are returned in the first month, so for a job that was long ago done. It also happens that he is not approved by the health care professional, although the family doctor has requested it, but the decision is changed based on an assessment from the medical file without seeing the patient. So this shouldn't happen, these laws should be regulated. I see my time is running out, I'm bringing an end. In my opinion, especially as a person with a medical education and someone who works in college, I have to comment on that. There is no fundamental reform that will lead to the excessive and effective functioning of university hospitals. Today we have a contradictory and incoherent situation, which is that the preclinical clinic with the clinic is absolutely unrelated. You have to admit, reform doesn't make a solution. And I'll finish with the next one. If it's true, I'm saying if it's true that directors are valued by the rhetoric of the type of cutting costs as you know and can otherwise fly from the chair you're sitting on and it can have an effect on patient health care, then we could, forgive me for the cynicism, quote a fellow from the Medical Faculty in Rijeka who recently had a promotion of his book and said, "If that's how it is, then we in Croatia could have our version of the Hippocrates oath, and it would sound like this, two sentences: I swear I won't break the limits of the monthly budget whatever it really means to my patients. The well-being of my patient will formally be my most important duty but in my daily work with patients I will keep in mind, above all, the interests of HZZO, the Minister of Health, the hospital director and the head of the clinic. I will formally swear to Hippocrates, but in fact, I will not adhere to professional, ethical and human principles. Of course, cynicism.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24033	But without cynicism. It wasn't your time, it was your debate, we need to be precise about it. We have a few corrections and we have two replicas. First of all, the correction of an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative, Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's another one of the debates that should be fully corrected because it really does have all the wrong ones. I'll say in this part, says the health costs are reduced in hospitals at the heart of patients. Dear colleagues, in the last eight months, 880 million kuna has entered the hospital system more than it has been. Whether it's savings or it's given to the hospital system to do business. I don't see if you understand the health care system at all if you think it's 880 million at the expense of patients. I think it's the other way around. And today, the information presented by the minister by reducing the waiting list. So the system isn't as hypocritical as you quoted it. The system is hypocritical, giving the right that I cannot achieve. So what are the rights that today Croatian citizens in the system cannot achieve? They all come true more than in any country in the world, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24035	Thank you. We have a second correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24036	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to correct what my colleague Strikic has already mentioned that the system is hypocritical. Well, even a colleague says you can't do this, you can't do that, and you have to die. So as an argument, I speak the World Health Organization's standards in which our country is placed on quality and availability at a high 30th place of quality and availability. And the second part, you have to die about this, and this very expensive drug fund that's so increased, it's really going to contribute to that part. This is thoughtful of such patients and will certainly help in this section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24037	Thank you. The esteemed representative Carmela Capari's rectification of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24038	Thank you very much. I'd just straighten out a short colleague who says she's said to cut the costs as much as you can. I come from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, from the Bjelovar hospital, I'm a member of the Governing Council of the Hospital, and there's really no cutting costs as much as you want. However, this limit has been increased and I think the entire hospital was satisfied with the funds it received and there was no need for patients and patients were processed which I will show you later in the debate. But for those who stand out in Croatia for health care, you know that about 640 euros is when you look at the money that's being allocated in one America, so we have even more quality health care than there is one America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24039	Thank you. Now we have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24040	Thank you. My colleague Jerkovic, you were talking about the hypocritical system and you were absolutely right. The man who said the truth roughly, the truth "that someone must die," has been replaced. And his director just washed his hands, his shift. You were talking about 880 million kuna savings, but it's hollow hollow, which was saved in the hospital, it was taken in the pharmacy. I hope that the river you were talking about will not welcome the fate of the island which all the money has taken and that these 5 million kunas that are foreseen in the equipment budget and 52 million for capital investment will be awarded in January. Because if they're not scheduled in January, it'll mean they're virtual.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24041	Thank you. And now the answer to the replica, of course. Dear representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24042	Dear colleague, I wonder where I live. In which country I live and where you live. How you don't understand what it means when I say that the system is hypocritical. So don't you really know how many cases there are in Croatia where HZZO simply disobeys the needs of the patients that are legally provided to them? Don't you know the story of drug lists? Don't you know the story of what's going on in the field? If we have patients with severe injuries, they're immobilized, they need adequate care. They don't get that worry. Why? Because the medical committees won't allow it. And why won't they allow it? They don't allow it because there's no money. And someone told them he didn't have any money. Right? So these stories about the directors, directors, all those in the management places that are in the health care system not being ordered to cut costs. I can accept that as, it doesn't have to be true. However, the situation on the ground says something completely different. We keep calling for money. I don't know who said that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24043	Excuse me, fellow Members, but you are not replicating this page, you are replicating a valid colleague. Here you go. Your colleagues on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24044	I have the right to say whatever I want in my replica. Mr. Vice President, I refer to what my colleague Jovanovic said. But I turned to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24045	Please, please, please! When I tell you, you have to listen to me, that's the way it is. I'm just telling you, replicate the subject your colleague told you about. That's the thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24046	The theme is hypocrisy. Mr. Vice President, the subject is hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24047	I know what the subject is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24048	So I don't know, what are we talking about? About agricultural land?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24049	Okay. Thank you very much. We have another one, please, without throwing it out of the bench. Take it easy, take it easy. We now have a replica, distinguished representative Željka Antunović, vice president of the House, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24050	Here's what I'm going to do to my colleague, Jerkovic, and I'm going to look at the chairman and I'm not going to look at her, and I think that's going to be right. Namely, counterpart Jerkovic spoke about a situation where family doctors and general practice will be found. It's something that touches me in particular, and I think my colleague Jerkovic was too mild when she talked about the consequences that were going to happen. In fact, today a single text has been published in a daily newspaper, where it says for a family doctor twice as much money. I checked with the minister to see if he was behind that title and the minister didn't exactly stop 100%, but he said he was very likely for many. I think this is one of the cheeky demagogues that is spreading to the harm of the family doctor and general health care and general medicine. Because precisely they will seem to me to be the biggest victims of this reform, or their patients will be the biggest victims of this reform. True conscious doctors, and there are many of them, have done so far all these things that are announced to them that they will be paid, and all of them from the chieftain. Their principals are now gradually, according to the minister, but still reducing, they will remain, the mains will not cover the basic cost of the sister's salary, the doctor's and the material expenditures. And they're reportedly from these additional services they'll be able to earn. And you know what additional services these are? Earwashing, five kunas, to collect double will be 10 kuna. And such services have, say, five patients a month. So from these services that are supposed to compensate for their chieftains, they should earn their salary. Doctors of family medicine. Now, you see, that's why I think that colleague Jerkovic was too mild because it is a question of the survival of those offices that were the only ones that belonged to that press system of public health and all this remains is mere, mere story and commercialization.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24051	The answer to the replica? There's no need. Okay. Thank you. Then let's move on with the debate. A respected colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic, applied for the debate. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24052	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we can, of course, look at different eyes and think but it's always good to refer to the World Health Organization. I do it a lot, too, even on this occasion. According to the World Health Organization, all countries of Europe are classified according to certain health indicators as groups A, B, and C, and as regards indicators of child mortality from zero to five years of age and men, for example. We are classified from 15 to 59 in a highly prestigious A group. Just as I said before, according to the World Health Organization on quality and availability, we are in the top 30th place. In his discussion Šišljagić pointed out many things we can be proud of and our health system and it is pleasant to listen to, in any case it is pleasant to listen to but there is always and there is a price. And in addition to that, it says these 3 billion and 700 million kunas that have reached, is that right, obligations, even these 10 billion that, during these 19 recoverys, it all stands. Of course, that was aware, and the government was aware of this at its beginnings when in the government's programme, I remember well, the government's programme, in the government's programme, as one of the main objectives is the financial consolidation of the system. The second moment was the creation of legal conditions for decentralisation. It's also a very significant moment. And what do we have today? So I could say that it was, let's say, one predecessor announcing a kind of reform. So financial consolidation, decentralisation, the third was the development of human resources, there were also the implementing measures, of course, in that part to address it. And, of course, the next thing you know, what we've got right now is a reform of the health system. It includes, as we have heard, the reform of the health system, the financing system, etc. But, of course, extensive reconstruction, health system reform must be based on the principles of strategy, the 2006 strategy and these principles are: strengthening primary health care, insurance, rationalisation of systems, distribution according to fundamental principles, equality, solidarity, accessibility and quality. Third, a shift in health policy at the heart of an individual's health needs. Fourthly, decentralisation of powers, organisation, obligation to perform health activities. A health partnership, the transparency of all procedures in health care, and so on and so on. Of course, the basic documents, the regulations are fundamental here, so the Health Protection Act and the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. On mandatory health insurance, I think it's been really quite a talk so I don't want to repeat myself in that part, but in this too, the Health Protection Act that solutions are being offered? The solutions to this legislative proposal should meet the objectives set out in the health care system are as follows: health planning i.e. the establishment of a network of public health services and others, strengthening primary health care as the primary element of integrated healthcare. And in that part there was today a speech so repositioning the role of home health. The roles of home health, there has been a lot of speeches about this, and according to the proposed health law, is a fundamental institution of health care at the primary level, a health activity that must ensure that the principle of comprehensiveness, full access to primary health care and the principle of availability is met. Availability and continuity of healthcare provision in its area. We who work in field offices and so on in the field and who have certain experience certainly meet with this moment of availability and so on. In many areas, it is very important and important. The proposed solutions seek to achieve home health repositioning in order to provide health care primarily focuses on... focus to a greater extent on the preservation, improvement of health and prevention of disease. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new role of home health is also to coordinate, to achieve health care measures implemented by all healthcare professionals in a given area. So with regard to home health, the second important moment is, of course, what today has been the words of the law being introduced into the health care system is giving concessions to perform public health services at the primary level of health activities. This gives a legislative framework for the development of this Institute in the field of health care as an area of public service provision. And we know that so far it has been a law as such, and this is regulated in Article 41 very clearly and clearly and clearly and is not in a conflict with the Law on Compliable Societies Act. And in any case, not to repeat what is said today in this debate will, of course, be the advice for health care in local self-government units that will play a certain role in this part and will, first of all, contribute to this consolidation that we said at the outset, to the fundamental objective of the health system and I believe that it will improve this health system and preserve it in such high positions that according to the World Health Organization's standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24053	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The debate is further followed by the distinguished MPs, Carmela Caparin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is much to be said, however, what I would really like to point out is that all three of these laws fall under one common denominator, and that is the reform of the health system that is coming to us, we have to admit on our own not at a very good time, given that it is an economic, economic crisis. If there was a global recession in the world, an economic crisis, but nevertheless all the praises to both the government and the health ministry that managed to enter this reform after all that no one has had so much courage so far, I would dare say that and not the strength to go into such a big procedure. And what you really need to take off your hat, because what you have remained socially sensitive in a whole series of these laws and the provisions that are made because of the 4 million and 400 inhabitants and the slightly new conditions are really only for 436 thousand 338 citizens. Health costs, protection covers the state budget for over a million and 800 thousand insurance companies. For a million and 46 thousand pensioners, nothing changes. We are all aware of the progress in medicine, of the expensive apparatus, of expensive medicines, of all possible, of the treatment options but we are aware that health care in the world, consumption increases 8 to 10% and that there is no state, there is no HZZO that will be able to cover everything without another source. We also remember that participation of the fatal that, when the drug consumption was lifted, rose rapidly by 25%, and indeed nothing changed in the health condition of our country's people. What does that tell us? He's saying that all of a sudden everything's become bad and that I can have in my drawer not one pack of drugs but three, four, and we know for ourselves in all families how many supplies of medicine there are and how much this country costs. In the Republic of Croatia, I said about EUR 600, in one Austria, EUR 3 thousand 800, in one neighbouring Slovenia over EUR 1000, but we are all aware that the reform is necessary but that one consensus seems impossible in this country and I am really sorry after all that was public debate. After all that's been more than a month, two days on the web pages, and after both the social partners and everyone's adopted it, they admit it, we politicians can't find a consensus on the reform that we're aware is necessary. We can say that we started the reform not with these laws but also with the laws, the Law on Patients' Rights and the Quality Act from which the Quality Agency came and whose work is provided with funds in the state budget and which will have to determine further accreditation of hospitals from which categorisation is followed. One of the essential items of this reform is to promote quality by referring to unwanted outcomes of treatment that we meet daily at the hospital. The health system reform also provided additional sources of funding as we heard: additional health insurance, contribution for the unemployed and from the 10% premium of responsibility, which I particularly appreciate because in 2007, 4000 390 were seriously injured, of which only 32 were on sick leave on that basis. Today we have the number of court rulings over 2600. Funding is also provided from 32% of excise revenues for tobacco processing aimed directly at the health system. We know that 3 million kunas are spent on tobacco smoke consumption or on complications caused by this and therefore must be involved in part of this reform or treatment. In this reform, the emphasis is placed on preventing that for me, indeed, mother medicine and primary health care, and in particular to prevent the protection of children, dental health care, prevention of infectious diseases from HIV infections, prevention of curative health care, etc. which can be done, but what I would like to pray for and the media really must participate in this prevention. We are not aware enough how much we must invest in our health, how much we have to worry about this health, and the best way to show us is this preventive breast cancer action where in some counties less than 50% of women responded and where the search was free of charge. In reform, we have heard a lot in the reform on health homes as the foundations of the primary health care provider, and indeed they get one strength that must be provided both by available and continuous health care in their area, and can even be organised as well as by the stationary for diagnostics and treatment to maternity care. At the primary level of health activities can also be established institutions for palitative care, with a palitative interdisciplinary team of home visits, a hospital for pain and palitative care, and a living room. Maybe that's one of the exits we're facing when we're talking about both hospice and these problems. It is particularly important to reform the emergency medical care that comes out of the home of health. For me, it's a big step since when I finished med school then my first job was in medical care, and we all kind of got doctors out of this medical emergency. I guess they thought that's where we'd learn the most. And we really did learn the most. However, from today’s perspective, I am glad that emergency medical care specialists are planning to do so in the reform. It's not a simple job. There's a lot to know about this job from access to a patient, manipulation of a patient and all that's going on. The reform shows further decentralisation of powers, strengthening public health services according to the public health service network, units of local self-government provide concessions for public health services in their field and will no longer be repeated. We've heard a lot about that. Health advice is also formed to ensure the participation of representatives of local self-government, professional associations, associations for the protection of patients' rights, trade unions and health employers in the planning and evaluation of health care in the area of regional self-government. A brief review of the consular hospital activity, where experts are increasingly lacking and on the other hand how to keep the best people. We're witnessing that our doctors are leaving the hospital. There's been a competition in my hospital for three years for a finished intern you can't get. For more than a year, we've been running a specialisation tender, so we don't have a doctor. Good doctors from the hospital are already going to private polyclinics, etc. So I appeal to these decentralised means that these people are really being paid in accordance with their abilities, their knowledge. And this decentralisation is, will just allow you to see how much who works and that quality people can be rewarded. We've often come into a situation where an example of surgeons from surgeons who don't know how many surgeons you have gets into an O.R. 30 times, and one comes in twice a month, and they get the same salary. Finally, I would just like to say that every person under this law has the right to health care and to be able to achieve the highest possible level of health in accordance with the provisions of the Health Protection Act and the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The health care law says each person is obliged to take care of his health. Gentlemen, I'm working. I was in the hospital last week. As we all worry about our health, I'll show you with this example. The ultrasound of the abdomen made in the second month of 2008 was not lifted from the laboratory, i.e. from the x-ray. The mother of a four-month-old child in the fifth month made an ultrasound of hips. Today that child I think is walking. I don't know what you're talking about. I think he's walking because the find is neat. In the 11th month of 2007, the ultrasound of an abdominal that was not right, but was not raised. The ultrasound of the abdomen in the 12th month of 2007, made, apparent by a specialist whose specialization costs the country about 100,000 euros. And that's how we behave. He wasn't raised. Fortunately, it's okay. Another abdominal ultrasound in 2007 unscathed. A C.T. brain made on 21.11.2007, apparent by a specialist whose specialization costs 100,000 euros at least not raised. Another young woman's brain CT, fortunately made in 11 months 2007, untraceable. The woman who made the dezympometry who was interested in what her bones were like, and if there's a chance that she could fall, she has a fracture. Good luck finding is fine, but it's not up and so on. Thirty percent of the results are unscathed, and that's health insurance money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24055	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a report of correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Rajko Ostojić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's not the exact quote. Just three corrections. It's not exactly supposed to change for only 400,000. So, only 300,000 of us employees are paying for extra insurance this hour. The exchange of colleagues Caparin for everyone else, for a million 200000 citizens of Croatia, because they will either pay for the participation or pay for additional insurance. Second. Let's not only prevent it from being 50% of the women that didn't answer. In some counties, it's even 35%. And the reason we bear all those who have lost their sense of prevention. The reason is clear in the health administration. And a third. It is not true that all good doctors go into private practice, because then the conclusion would be that all bad doctors, say counterpart Strikic or I stay working at the hospital. So it's not, or you who work in Bjelovar. So that's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24057	Thank you, Doctor. Two replicas. First of all, distinguished colleague Željka Antunović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24058	My colleague Caparin spoke of the crisis as the wrong time to go into health reform. On the contrary, I think that the crisis was precisely the factor that forced the health minister to speedily and thoughtlessly enter something called health reform. I know this is being prepared during the current minister's term of office, but I also know that it has been missed for four years of the previous term, not only has it been missed to take a good look at it and try to reach a consensus on the changes that are necessary. At this point, even more necessary precisely because of the responsibility we have, which is being driven by the crisis because we can no longer allow a 5 billion or 4 billion due to a ill-organised health system. It's been missed, for example. through those four years, and not only missed, but rejuvenated what is now being promoted as a major reform move, which is an instrument of supplementary health insurance. In 2003, there were some 800,000 people who were additionally health insurance in Croatia. I'm talking about HZZO data. Today there are about 350, 400 thousand. Half a billion were collected from supplementary health insurance at the end of 2003. However, this system has been restored on the grounds that it has increased consumption, and among other things, medicines that you are the numbering instructions. This was the reason why he went backwards, instead of improving that supplementary insurance system during that time and that we already had a large, much larger number of people today who knowingly and under known conditions through the insurance policy would participate in the financing of their health care. And that's the problem. Now we're back at some point and it's going to take a lot of time to get some things that could have been improved to zero position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24059	Thank you very much. Replica response, dear colleague Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think this is all so much damaged, but rather improved, and that the crisis is the reason that we are going through this reform is not true at all because I think the reform we can say is not only implemented since the adoption of these three laws, but much earlier. But I just wanted to say that there's one step that will be difficult to implement laws and reforms in such a difficult economic crisis. And as for supplemental health insurance, namely, we all need to be from what I've brought out, aware that the supplementary health insurance policies have to be paid, we have to pay, under quotes, you can't force anyone, of course, to raise awareness of people's health care costs. And paying for supplementary health insurance means 0 participation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24061	Thank you very much. The next replica, a distinguished colleague of MPs, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24062	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Caparin also describes the need for reform, which I must agree with and we all agree that it is necessary and that she is late. However, every reform requires very high and financial investment, and the minister also spoke about it in his opening public statement on the courage to move into such a reform that he thinks is very good and has the money provided. However, I expect the minister to appear after the cabinet session and tell us that he will reduce health reform in 2009 because just hours ago in his budget he was stripped of billions and 700 million kuna. What will come to the health system as new will be patient participation and will contribute to pensions that are higher than average salary. Therefore, it will only be a new source of revenue after such a rebalancing, i.e. after such amendments, which are addressed to the already discussed budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24063	Replication response, colleague Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24064	Well, I have to say, you may not have been in the assembly bench here at the scene, but the minister explained what would happen, which would result in the disappearance of those over a billion and what, 700 million kuna. Namely, there won't be any capital investments and so on, but it certainly won't be at the heart of the patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24065	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of the distinguished counterpart Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Just before we heard from our colleague Romana, we heard what our patients wanted, or what our citizens wanted. Whether they're healthy or sick. We have actually heard, and we need to respect them in their wishes, in their intentions and diabetics and chroniclers, we also have to respect the wishes of parents of chronically ill children to pay their way when they arrive for chemotherapy in a city outside their dwellings. Therefore, I must also say what we have previously instructed that perception is that, however, these reforms, that fiscal reform, everything is about finance, and very little is about structural change. Mr. Minister today said he was at 123 presentations, that he had meetings with chambers, with the media, with the party and with the president of the state and said that he had over 6 thousand people introduced to his reform. I would have been very glad if all these 6 thousand people had really supported the reform, if they could have discussed it, but we heard from our colleagues that it wasn't even possible. I must tell you that from one set of great numbers from Split, I received a message from a colleague who said this proposal for reform requires a referendum and an explanation for what will happen to the people. But let's go back to today's presentation by Mr. Secretary. Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary was also mentioned from the presentation on how to pay for healthcare. We see that the existing payment of the principal is plus payment by service. While in the Republic of Croatia, only the chieftain is, of course, it refers to primary health care. The reform would in this respect be to define a health basket in which services would be for all citizens without participation and additional payment, and for services outside that basket additional payments. The ministry explicitly stresses that the scope of the so-called health services. The basket won't change. The position, specifically the Croatian dental chamber, is that it cannot accept today's range of dental services in primary dental care with existing chieftains. Next, the proposal to pay the costs of the so-called ‘primary’ level. Cold drive, i.e. fixed costs of the office at the proposed amount of 60%, then the further 20 plus 20 proposed. We wonder, this amount of 20 plus 20 wouldn't be paid by the values set out in the blue book as we've heard, but so far they're unknown. Mr. Minister also mentioned today that the reform of primary health care is an incentive of effective work in primary health care. I heard from a colleague from the family last night, and he points out that reform is just financial, as we heard today, colleagues are in fear. The real problems are the frames. No doctors, no nurses, no replacements. A colleague says that sometimes he must not be sick or go on vacation because he waits for a full waiting room every day. We wonder what we encourage young people to do for a health profession. It's hard to say what you want in primary health care according to what we see, chieftains or they're chieftains. For example, a colleague who examines 40 to 100 patients a day wonders whether he works poorly, whether a colleague who has crossed that standard can we tell him that he is not working well. I will mention the pensioners very briefly, but the comparison with Austria is not good at paying of course the health contributions of the pensioners. Because this pensioner with an average pension can buy two consumer baskets and in Croatia only 40% of the same. The average pension in Austria is 80% of the average salary and in Croatia less than 40%. Next. I mentioned it a little while ago in correcting the wrong quote, and now I'm going to do it again. When emergency medical attention is mentioned, there is not a single word in the opening section of the entire paragraph on emergency dental care. And just for the sake of its specificity, it is necessary to provide means and regulations, i.e. to define how emergency dental services are carried out. In this respect, provision should be made for local self-government units, i.e. regional security of funds and for emergency dental services. I would refer further to Article 9 which discusses the specific obligations of the district self-government and says that the obligation is to ensure that the network is filled, so it is possible to finance specialisations, we ask ourselves what resources. In particular, we have 4 specializations approved by the ministry in Dubrovnik, but the problem is financing them and it is questionable whether Dubrovnik will have these four specializations that are very needed. Then it goes on to organise the work of an institution whose founders are. Given that, in the amount of the principal, there is no longer any funding provided for investment investments and the ongoing maintenance of the offices I think agreed, it is necessary that the regional self-government unit with the provision of funds for health institutions whose founders provide those funds for other contract entities in their area. Next, article 10 on health advice, or health care. In the system, I suggest that instead of representatives in the council's system, I suggest that instead of representatives of professional associations, there be representatives of the competent chambers. Then we have an article 57 that speaks about the health net, and I'm not sure whether it refers exactly to how many private persons, how many health care institutions or how much of them are thought of as precisely decided or actually a statement that the network will determine how many entities are needed in the public health service network with which the Institute will conclude a contract. In the current law of the network, the networks also apply to the opinion of the competent chamber as well as the units of the regional self-government. The units of regional self-government are now being ignored and major commitments are being imposed. I would also mention Article 41 which is the basis for the highest amount of concession fee to be determined by the minister if the minister limits the amount of concession that I am not sure about the wider information, but is talking about 1.250,00 kuna. We wonder if it will be enough to finance preventive actions, for example. If we have 5,000 employees of future concessionaires in Croatia, and according to this 1.250,00 kuna per year, it means 75 million kuna for the negotiation of preventive procedures. Let us also not forget the work of the health - care ministry that will negotiate and oversee the implementation of the contract. We have often heard that Slovenia is also mentioned today. Let us remember that in Slovenia the concession contract is concluded without any compensation and is concluded indefinitely. For more information, see Article 41(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The same paragraph also provides for documentation for competition, including a statement of work in the team member, or members of the team certified by the public notary. The proposed text does not prescribe its content, so it is not clear or its purpose. I note that a concessionaire such as all other employers in matters related to the employment relationship of his employees may actually need to apply the prescribed provisions of the Labour Act. I would also like to mention Article 46(4), subject to the conditions of space and equipment. The act establishing the founders of a health institution must also contain a condition on how to provide personnel. It points out for reasons, because it is precisely the health institutions performing the dental activity of the polyclinic that most often do not, after the start of work, have conditions related to the prescribed fit, or the relevant branches of specialisation in the working relationship to indefinite time. Dear gentlemen, this law, or law, is a great responsibility both to the citizens and to the profession. I'm not for us to unite them, and even less to bring them in by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24067	Thank you very much. The following is a further discussion on the basis of the application. Dear colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24068	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These days in Croatia, indeed, in the full sense of the word we live in Gundulić, let's remember he said "the world's only constant change is". Every day, a proposal for a state budget is made to buy social peace. Minister Milinovic was the first victim of daily prime minister's corrections to the draft budget. The health budget was originally reduced to 1.7 billion kuna. It was subsequently modelled in a way that only 700 million kuna was taken from the health care sector, and 800 million HZZO's debts for drugs were solidly taken over by Minister Schuker. And now Minister Milinovic is trying to convince us that he won't actually miss that money, that the reform goes on. If that money isn't going to be missing, why is it that he's supposed to be in the original amount in the first place? Didn't you know where to point the extra money? Of course that money's gonna be missing. The current health debts confirm that. In fact, it turns out that it's all one thing whether a health deficit will amount to a billion more than the already existing debt of nearly 4 billion kuna. This is why decentralisation in this health reform is so easy to talk about, because decentralisation is based on the fact that the debts of county hospitals are reconciled from decentralised resources, even though these funds should be purposely channelled into ongoing and investment maintenance of health institutions. Hospital debt must be recovered from the state register because the health contribution of 15%, which is among the highest in Europe, paid by our employees, provides sufficient health money. However, the health budget should be cleared from obligations for certain categories of citizens such as unemployed pensioners, children etc. who are now paid with health money. So, HZZO, because of the transparency of spending money, should be removed from the State Treasury system and regained the status outside the budget fund which, as we have heard so far, has mentioned several MPs. The worst in the reformed health system will pass those oldest because they are, of course, the most ill. The big question is whether a 50 kuna insurance policy will be sufficient to cover the costs of their treatment and whether insurance insurance providers will, in order of course, make this policy conditional on the taking of any other insurance policy currently offered on the market. It is also a question, if it is a chronic patient, whose monthly cost of prescriptions and possibly hospital treatment will also amount to several thousand kunas, which this insurance policy of 50 kuna per month will want to cover the costs of several thousand kunas. There is no such company because all insurance companies operate with the aim of making profits. It turns out that participation is in fact the only way that all citizens in Croatia are forced to pay additional health insurance and thus ensure additional accumulation of private capital, which inevitably leads to the tycunisation of Croatian health care. In fact, up to now, about 500 000 Croatian citizens have been covered by additional insurance, and the new model will cover more than 4 million citizens, as citizens will simply be forced to secure themselves because otherwise they will have to pay for almost all health services. Isn't that, I'm asking, an additional blow to the standard of citizens in this otherwise difficult situation? The real reform in this sense would be a definition of a standard health package in which services, medicines and building materials would be available for all citizens of Croatia without participation and without additional payment. For services outside the package, participation and additional payment would be introduced for which insurance companies would be placed on the market. Furthermore, there remains something very negative. According to the last version we heard from the media yesterday, the contribution for pensioners of more than 5200 kuna remains, so it remains 1%. The truth is, receiving these pensioners is somewhat higher, but they are the result of the fact that these people have had bigger salaries throughout their working life and thus, through a greater health contribution, contributed more to the health system. Now they have to pay for healthcare again. Finally, we are afraid that even after the reform, corruption in health care and waiting lists will remain, which means that in terms of availability of health care, nothing will change significantly, although the reform is a very strong, very promising word, a word that implies radical change, even with a surgical dictionary, painful cuts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24069	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. Next is a debate by a colleague of Parliament, Marijana Petir. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates, MPs and MPs. So I am looking first at this reform that the minister here today proposes in the Croatian Parliament, first of all, through two pillars that this reform should achieve, which is on the one hand socially good, and on the other hand solidarity. Through the concept of social well-being, I think that health services as a product should be made available primarily to everyone and should not be focused on making no profit, and when it comes to solidarity, I think that there should be a collective approach that applies to the concept of health to disease, from youth to age, from individual to family, from woman to man. So everyone has to be covered in this concept. In addition, the objectives of this health reform must not go beyond what is important to us in the HSS, which is to improve health, efficiency of the health system, control of costs, increase the quality of services, accessibility and fairness and transparency of the financing of the obligors. My opinion is that, in what the minister presented today, what is in these three laws that we are discussing today, surely these objectives are met. The fact is that it must be acknowledged that the health system in the Republic of Croatia has also many problems today and that is why reform is necessary, so reform is proposed because everything is ideal, reform should not. And these problems relate to outstanding debts that are accumulated at 2 billion per year, the problem is still waiting lists, the unequal conditions in providing standards, there is a problem of perception of healthcare corruption. There's been a fall in the popularity of the profession lately. We are aware that we are also in primary health care, but also in hospitals we have a lack of doctors and that the role of the founder of health institutions is still minor. There were words that all this proposed in the framework of health reform was not sufficientlycommunicated and presented. I can't agree with that because in my life I often attended public debates where we had representatives on the one hand, and on the other hand we had no dialogue or we could give feedback. A public debate was held in the context of this health reform. It also testifies that the other side was heard, that it was constantly communicating, that there were certain changes in my court, that there were improvements. I want to thank both the Minister and his associates who have accepted in much of the HSS proposals and have classified them as an integral part of these laws, as well as complete health reforms. I think that through this concept there is more quality and health care control and what is new, it will also be subject to public control, and it seems to me extremely important. I'm glad that in common communication we came to the point that it would not be good if 4% of the contributions were poured over to private insurance companies because we think it is very important for these 6 billion kunas to remain in the HZZO system. I'm glad our proposal is related to pensioners who have pensions of less than 5 grand, 200 kuna, accepted. They won't have to pay pension contributions. I also believe that it is good that all those who have additional health insurance will not have to pay for participation. It's a good thing the expensive drug fund is doubled. The concept proposed for emergency medical care is good because it reduces patient care time to 20 minutes. It is also good that this reform of local and regional administrations, other than buildings, also gives them funding, but also gives them a function of planning and management. It is good that the home of health has also been given an additional role in preventive activities in the promotion of health education. It is also good that the county will now have an impact on the award of concessions, rather than on HZZO, which I also consider a contribution to decentralisation. I also think Ministers that you already started the reform the moment you accepted our proposal to abolish the administrative fee, when something that was not fair was actually abolished, and we know that the administrative fee included a number of people, that over a million insurance companies were paying the administrative fee and that it was no longer available today. I would also like to say something as a representative who comes from Sisak-Moslavina County, because an integral part of the reform that is already being implemented in my opinion is an increase in the limit for hospitals. In that sense, I would also like to thank you especially from the title of the county hospital in Popovaca, which has received an increase in the limit by 28%. There we have 699 beds with a limit of 5.6 million kuna, so the monthly limit they couldn't do, they fought to make ends meet. With this increase you've introduced, and on the proposal of the hospital director, as you've done for other hospitals, I don't think only of mine in my county, with that increase to 7.2 million kuna, I think they have quite normal operating conditions that they've been wanting for years. I would also like to commend that communication you have set up with the hospital directors, because it finally gives the impression that someone wants to hear what the field is saying. I was the deputy mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County in the last term. We have all the time urged to increase the price of the living room, i.e. the day-to-day pension for forensic patients, because it was also a problem for us. But here's until you came to the minister's post we couldn't solve that problem. This is the new 1.8 million kuna a year, which certainly means a county hospital that takes care of such specific patients who are not only from our county, but from all over Croatia, means a lot. I would also like to say that in some ways we in Sisak-Moslavina County started this decentralisation before there was a talk about the reform itself and this shows the justification of the reform. Because a system like that couldn't have survived in the field. Our county is the largest area behind Osijek-Baranja. We've had absurd situations that we need an ambulance to drive 70 kilometers in order to take over a sick patient which, of course, absolutely makes no sense because then you get lost in that whole emergency story. She's not an ambulance if you drive 70 kilometers. With great effort, we spent that decentralisation on our own. We have separated the county health home into three health homes of Kutin, Sisak and Petrinja in order to ensure adequate health care and timely health care for all of our citizens and, of course, we expect that through this legislative regulation that you propose that this decentralisation will, in full respect of words and live on the ground. What I expect from you ministers is that in addition to this work where you exempt patients, or people who are suffering from cancer from the participation system, you release them from participation. To help us in Sisak with the condition when it comes to cancer patients being rehabilitated. So, the situation is dramatic. There, due to various industrial facilities, certainly that have had an impact on numerous improvements, and I don't think it should be just a struggle for the citizens of Sisak. That must be the state's interest. The health of the citizens of Sisak must be of interest to both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I expect your help here. And I'd like to say something since I still have a few seconds left. I have to look back on the farmers' category, because I'm still coming from the HSS. I think it's important here to say that farmers whose agriculture is an occupation, who have a land owned or owned, will not pay for participation and that's good. What's not good is not good statements, and I'd like everyone to hear that. They are not good statements by Vilim Ribic, who again as an eternal proletarian today, that is his interest, says the state budget is in a deficit due to the blackmail of HSS and agricultural reform. I'd say it like this. The fisherman never got hot cold water drunk, so they say in our people and I know he'd rather be all proletarians, but someone has to work in this country, and among those who work are farmers. So here's thank you, too, for identifying farmers as an important segment that needs to be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24071	Thank you very much. We have one application of the replica, a distinguished colleague, Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24072	Dear colleagues Petir, we may have a different opinion on someone's public work but I think that fellow Ribic, Mr. Ribic, president of the Science and Education Union, is doing his job properly and well and deserves his salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24073	Replica reply, distinguished representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24074	Of course, a colleague, Josipovic, has the right to an opinion and attitude. A colleague Ribic has been acting as an expert on agriculture for the past year, and as far as I know, you have now confirmed that he is the head of a smaller union, so I think it is good to deal with the rights of people who have given him confidence and who are members of the union, and not to deal with what he doesn't know much about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24075	Next is the debate, a respected counterpart, Boris Spremo. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24076	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia not only the health reform of the Republic of Croatia requires a number of other and deep reforms. But precisely because health reform is one of the most important social reforms not only in Croatia but everywhere in the world, look at developed countries, America, etc. Then we have a duty to that fact, to treat it with due consideration. I'm sorry we didn't deal with the process of taking this reform because it's going to be a reform, it's doubtless now, it's just a question of how. So I'm sorry that, I said that on the Legislative Committee when I was in the session two days ago, I was listing the barbed legislative proposals because at the time, actually after I was dealing with the budget, I could see at all, which is why after I had eaten the bone that was thrown before the people, it really got hungry, and then the meat was thrown in front of us, but the raw meat and we're not going to be able to sleep so we can tell if it's quality before these laws see the light of day, and that's why I'm sorry. And I wonder how we do in this Croatian Parliament when we are yesterday, I will only talk about the last two days, so yesterday and today what my colleague Antičević-Marinović would say about 8 p.m. and she ended up somewhere around 10 p.m., discussing another system law that talks about common and needs to be talked about and solve common problems, which is the Law on Criminal Procedure, issues concerning organised crime above all and corruption. You, unfortunately, have to stress it now, do not allow us to participate in it in a quality way, and that is why we object and not that these laws should be passed, though. So, not only are the representatives of the Croatian Parliament excluded, not only the public, because the public cannot know the same then, especially yesterday, about the Law on Criminal Procedure, especially when it comes to the night, but it is that it is indeed a question of the purpose of the existence of the Croatian Parliament if it participates or does not actually participate in the most important laws in this way. Then I recommend that you consider changing the Constitution, but I do not advocate it, but those of you who do so, so that the regulations deal with government issues like that if you also manage to vote for what I suspect you will vote for, then we will come to an even greater absurde. I'm asking you as Government not to do it anymore. And I would like to ask the President of the Croatian Parliament for whom I am sorry that he is not here when the agenda is formulated, when the agenda at the Assembly Presidency is seven days before the adoption here is considered then that after that he does not go with the supplements without the Parliament Presidency in which he participates by preparing this Assembly multilaterally to say the body, then supplement it in a way that works early in the morning, let's now complement with health reform. So at least announce it at Parliament's Presidency will be here's the proposed law in seven days, and we'll discuss it even this way. At least do it in the future. And as far as reform itself is concerned, one of the only consequences of this, I was able to read something quickly. I saw, for example, in Article 10, you say what is good to form a health alliance in the county. It consists of several representatives of entities, five as far as I have seen, of representatives of local self-government or county and, say, employers etc. And now you're saying that local self-government is through the statutes, so the county needs to adopt a statute to determine the number of members of the council. And it's okay. And then you have in Article 212 that the county is obliged to form advice within three months. You know why that's impossible? Because all counties must first change the statutes and then determine the number of members of the council. How, then, will the counsel be established? That's impossible, that's theoretically impossible. I now announce to you that, in that sense, I will submit an amendment. I hope you'll at least accept it to be real, then there's six months of deadline, but that's just one example. And as for the reform itself, let me say. The objective of health reform should be a fundamental goal, to make life as longer and more quality as possible. In the Republic of Croatia, the average age of men living or dying for 73 years, women 78, in Switzerland, for example, is 91 for men, for women 94. I'm setting up now except, of course, I'm better off complaining because I don't know who to complain to when I'm a representative here in the Parliament, so I have to complain to myself. The analysis wasn't made for this deep reform that you proposed to these laws. So I'm now opening one question, let's say a very important question, a question of mandatory annual systematic checks. I will now present to you the information made by the Croatian Institute of Public Health. So these are the experts, the experts who deal with it and I read it. In 2003 it was carried out in the Republic of Croatia with annual systematic reviews of 20,000 and 2007. 11 grand. Then, in 2002, 85,000 preventive checks were carried out in primary health care and 2007. Forty grand. So, uh... Less, in a few years, half as much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the total number of home visits, systematic and control checks in general 2007. 86% less than 1990. That's the information that got me worried. Now, why am I bringing him up? Because the health and performance of a health reform is primarily based on prevention as well as on road safety. If you're not represented then and if you haven't selected it and explained it to yourself and then what you want from that analysis and what you can do about the finances, then you haven't made much progress. And this data says that we must first and foremost satisfy prevention through this reform. As far as I've been able to see, there's no institute for mandatory systematic examination. What does that mean? This means that healthcare institutions are obliged to call once a year on a pre-established day for patients or people who are in their records for examinations. We know what that allows. This makes it possible to reduce illnesses, to increase human health and the nation's health significantly. Of course, it's one longer-term program, but it has to start. And that's what reform is all about. That, in my opinion, falls first of all into reform. Some breakthroughs have been made toward homes of health. But insufficient, let's say. Health homes in the larger city, in order for these preventive checks to be carried out, must work 24 hours in cooperation with certain other health institutions. That's what some countries have solved. And we had it. We had Andrija Stamper and his tradition, but here we are not using properly. Second question. The education of the population, ignorance is the greatest enemy of health except, of course, death itself. To teach people to recognize the symptoms of disease is one of the key things to improve the health of the nation. What was done through this health reform to improve it, I failed because of lack of time and for other reasons you have answered, so I ask you to answer that question when you address the Croatian Parliament. Third. This is all about this one quality analysis, what about importing non-quality foods that give us large trade chains that are one of the main causes of the disease. Is there an analysis? Whether there is an analysis of the imports of medicines, because the West is solving old medicines, or those medicines that they have discovered do not have quality substances, and they are sending them, not only to Croatia and other countries in transition especially. And not developed. Is that analysis done? And what does the Croatian Food and Medicinal Products Agency do? Who founded it? By the decision of this Parliament. And did that agency give you an analysis of that segment? Please answer that question. The specific question is, of course, the question of staff. Not one word mentions any numbers... letters, through this law that is passed by emergency procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't have a clue. In the paper, I haven't been able to read it, except for something I know, that the pediatrician is not there, that the doctor isn't there, that we're going to be importing them soon, that I know a little bit about it from my private knowledge. One more question in particular, what about health insurance and the care of a medical seafarer? Is there any progress made here? That's what I'd ask you to answer, because I didn't see it and I couldn't tell. And in the end, I can't vote for such a set of legal proposals, for so-called. Health reform, but I said for what reasons, but I wish you good luck in implementing these and such laws that you will obviously pass this way. Because we need it for our nation's health and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24077	Thank you very much. We all need a fellow representative of happiness. He says if you're lucky, you won't be sick. But we have two corrections to the quote. First of all, dear colleague Andrew Hebrang, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24078	Thank you very much. Well, it's not true when a colleague said there was no analysis of this group of laws. The analysis was carried out in parallel with the making of the law and this financial analysis in relation to the budget, the financial analysis in relation to the supplementary insurance, the financial analysis of all the elements accepted, not accepted, and precisely on the basis of the financial analysis were accepted or rejected certain financial parts of this law. It's also not true, says a colleague, there's no prevention. And she just started reforming major prevention programs, remember early detection of colorectal cancer, remember mammography, screening for breast cancer, remember getting paid for preventive examination into primary health care. And here the prevention was brought down to primary health care, therefore, to the county and for that is the decentralised money. Also in preventing this one, you need to teach people to recognize the disease. So right now these programs are dislocated to the primary level where the county with primary doctors and educate and conduct preventive checks. So it's included in the reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24079	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Shmrem has made several inaccuracies, and I'll only have two. That it has not been or has not been this reform of preventive programmes. Indeed, here is what Professor Hebrang said, so we are witnessing early detection of colon cancer, and the widest action implemented by the Ministry of Health, this ministry, early detection of breast cancer, is also a preventive action. That's... who suffer most of the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I also don't know what you thought reform didn't teach the population to recognize the symptoms of the disease. Does that mean we're sending every family to medical school for a year? Recognising the symptoms of the disease, then I mean, even doctors don't need them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24081	Thank you very much. Replica, distinguished colleague Rajko Ostojić. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24082	Thank you very much, Mr. Sprem, thank you, and thank you, Mr. Vice President of the House, for spreading the picture and pointing to the problem of passing the law, pointing to the procedure, pointing to democracy. Democracy is a procedure, procedures are facts, facts should at least be in the Croatian Parliament or should be written in the National Journal. And in the procedure should be as important laws as you said yesterday's laws according to first reading, second reading, and not according to the script last week before the session. According to the Constitution of discharge, or the end of the session as it was in July 2005, in July 2006 and today in December 2009. Democracy is therefore a procedure. Health advice, I'm asking you to send my colleague Shram the amendment. But on the other hand, I'm sorry that the Split-Dalmatia County of Salonit, Vranjic, will go badly. Salonit Vranjic, production of asbestos, previous minister, in February 2006, allowed us to produce asbestos in the country of Croatia in the 21st century, so we will fail one big action of health advice. And believe it or not, asbestos has been known to be carcinogenic for four decades. Did it take us four decades to figure it out? It's obvious to some people. So be careful with that amendment if you can, you're a kind of lawyer, set up an amendment, but try to exclude this salon, the crow, the Split-Dalmatia County doing those 200 thousand down citizens who unfortunately, not by their guilt in the 21st century experienced what it means to be asbestos. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24083	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Answer to the replica of my colleague, Sprem, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor Ostojić, I can only say that I am from this short controversy that I had on my left, and otherwise it belongs to the right, I have figured out where more problems are hiding and they are actually confirming my thesis that one side of this Parliament, currently most obviously has an analysis, as far as we've seen, has a formation. I guess they're on special papers. But we representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I believe a good part of the HDZ members of the other coalition, they didn't see it, it's not here. There's no such analysis here. There's no mention of them in a way to talk about them. Unless special separats are meant for it, but give us those booths, give us something. We don't have information, and that's the problem all the time. You're saying you'll make it all. I wish you good luck for our people, but I doubt that you're opening up space for others to participate in it. It means in the beginning you see some intention that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24085	Thank you very much. The next debate is the debate of distinguished counterpart Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, State Secretarys, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Despite the weight of the time we are in, it should still be said that the implementation of extensive and really necessary reforms of the health system is the most important procedure in health in the last 10 years. It therefore represents the resolution of both the systematic and the financial frameworks as well as the reform of the public health care system, and the predecessor is in the National Health Development Strategy, which this Croatian Parliament adopted in 2006. We have heard many times that the unity of systems with a focus on strengthening primary health care with a clear quality promotion that will strengthen the creation of conditions for this quality. This is primarily the provision and rationalisation of resources with a strong shift in health policy because in the focus of health needs individuals or individuals, decentralisation of powers, partnerships in health care and the visibility of all procedures in health care. A network of public health care is being introduced, i.e. is defined for the whole of Croatia, i.e. the regional or regional self-government units. County, the required number of health institutions and private healthcare professionals with which the Croatian Institute of Public Health concluded a contract on the implementation of health care. At the primary level of healthcare, the home of health is a fundamental institution, in addition to the principle of comprehensiveness, full access to primary health care, and its new role is in coordinating the implementation of healthcare measures carried out by all healthcare professionals in a given area. It should be said that hyperproduction of health homes is not desirable. The standard distance is 50 kilometers between the two home health and home health in the county headquarters. A stronger role, should be said once again, and medical resources as well as medical technicians. It is also important to say here that it attaches particular importance to strengthening group private practice and to entities providing public health services based on concessions. Powers are decentralised, and thus strengthens the position of units of regional self-government because the concession for public health services is given to private healthcare professionals and health institutions by the county. A health advice is being established which will, among other things, give opinions on a proposal for a health care plan for the area or area of the county as well as on measures to achieve availability and quality, which is certainly a new contribution, given that each environment still has its specificities. The new quality, law or law opens up another quality through the establishment of a state-run Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute and then the establishment of county emergency medical services. The result should be greater protection of citizens. The funds are provided for space, equipment, new personnel and vehicles, as well as the education of doctors and medical agents as well as technicians. The reform of the financing system must strengthen fiscal discipline and asset management. The Croatian government has already introduced measures in 2004, and the goal is to increase revenue sources from voluntary insurance payments. The proposed law does not affect established health insurance rights and primarily takes into account socially sensitive groups. The result would be a balance of income and expenditure at the end of 2009. Hospitals would significantly resolve their debt to suppliers and these are medicines and consumable medical materials. The proposed amendments and additions to the applicable Voluntary Health Insurance Act allow all persons who are exempt from payment of the surcharge from the payment of medical care costs under the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, and the State budget will cover premiums for supplementary health insurance. Given that this reform has already been made public, not only will I support the adoption of a package of these health laws in an emergency procedure but I will personally thank you ministers as well as your co-workers for proposing more health to the Republic of Croatia through this reform, just as you have taken all of this upon the trail of complete, that our complete health system in Croatia is directed towards health systems such as the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24087	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24088	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here are three draft laws governing the area of health care, the area of compulsory health insurance and the area of voluntary health insurance. Namely, all these three laws are necessary to implement the health reform proposed by our minister, Dr Milinovic. Although we are in an economic and financial crisis that is global, and unfortunately our country has not passed this kind of health reform, I consider necessary for a number of reasons that I will list. First, as we have heard, the losses of the health system have been accumulated or repeated from year to year for ten years. That's how they make 3.6 billion kunas today. Two, all the so far so-called. The reforms were short-term resolutions with a very short time to generate new new losses. This government and the Ministry of Health headed by Dr Milinovic had a vision, systematicity, determination and courage to take this inevitable step in health reform. In my debate, I will focus on the hospital system as the biggest consumer of health money but also on the healthcare provider, which is what this reform means for the hospital system but what it would mean if the reform was not adopted. To remind the distinguished MPs and MPs, by the time we met in Plitvice, the hospital system generated 110 million kunas of a new debt per month. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, someone set real costs for the hospital system, and it was done by Minister Milinovic, although there were many skeptics, especially on the left hand side of the assembly, who said that the increased resources in the hospital system did not lead to an increase in the quality of medical services. On the contrary, to deny the provision of services under the cover of the so-called “. ” keeping the director's chair. Namely, now after 8 months the figures are inexorable, the debts are reduced, the number of services provided in the SKZ has increased as well as the number of patients treated in our hospitals. The waiting lists are shrinking and a national waiting list has been introduced. Of course, these measures have not solved all the problems of the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia. He was also aware of the Minister and Government of the Republic of Croatia, and despite the severe financial crisis, he proposed a health reform to this House. When I said there was a vision and a systematicity, it was seen from the period from Plitvice to today when this reform was being prepared and that it could be implemented. Let's remind you of both the representatives and our citizens who are currently the biggest problem of the hospital system, if we don't count on finances that can be fixed, but the real problems are health personnel problems. If they don't get rid of them now, it's gonna take ten years to get rid of them, so we've got plenty of money for the health system. Namely, about 7,000 doctors work in the hospital system and with other healthcare professionals, please listen to the number of services provided in the hospital system in one year. 80 million services either diagnostic or therapeutic, which means that every Croatian citizen on average requests a service 15 times a year or receives either a diagnostic or a therapeutic service. These are data from the Croatian Medical Chamber. What are the dangers to the system if there is no reform? Further lack of doctors so today in Croatian healthcare is missing for the hospital system I will say 328 interns, 319 surgeons, 209 gynecologists, 350 anaesthesiologists not to mention further. Even bigger or more devastating results are if we look at the average age of our specialists. The average age of surgeons in Croatia is 55 years, which we really don't think offers a great perspective if we don't renew the fit in the hospital with this reform. The departure of top experts to the private sector or the pharmaceutical industry where pay is better and far less responsibility. Today we heard here, I think the distinguished colleague Šišljagić spoke about the responsibility and sacrifice of the surgeons, as well as all other doctors. If he goes into the private sector, let alone in the pharmaceutical industry, his responsibility is much less, and thus stress and a more comfortable life. And what I think is most important, the lack of categorization and accreditation and standardisation of hospitals based on only one criterion, which is expertise and quality, and I think that's what reform is going to get. What does this reform bring about the hospital system? A system of paying services for hospitals under the DTS system or diagnostic and therapeutic groups is introduced which puts the quality and expertise of providing health care regardless of those in county hospitals or clinical centres. This results in both accreditation and categorisation of procedures, activities and hospitals as a whole. Although I must say, I also advocate that the highest level of health care must be provided at our top centres, or clinical centres. But there must be work without mediocrity, and sometimes by pretending to be excellent by doing it at the clinical center. Medicine is one thing, and if the doctor knows how to do it, he'll do it well in county hospitals a lot of times and better than at clinics. So we have excellent surgeons in county hospitals, but very bad ones at clinics and vice versa. This reform will all be evaluated in the smallest detail, which ultimately represents a profit for the user of services or patients because it will receive the best possible health care service. But at the same time, the institution that is doing well and professionally will have significant financial resources that will be able to pay additionally for excellence or for those who work more and better than average, so they will have no reason to leave the hospital system either in the private sector or in other countries. In fact, by entering the European Union, there is a great danger and the possibility of happening to us so-called. Bulgarian and Romanian syndrome, where certain hospitals are closed for lack of personnel, medical personnel. Therefore, this reform with a vision and long-term stabilisation of the system is not only financially, but sets out assumptions for staff consolidation of the hospital system. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much one institution or state only costs to specialize in one resident? This amounts to about 100 to 150000 euros, and when such a doctor in the best years of top education goes to another country, the loss is significantly higher, because it takes about 10 years of training for a new doctor. I don't think we can do this to ourselves, and we shouldn't allow it. The next step of the reform, Mr. Minister, I hope that there must be concern about the material status of the doctor, but also other medical staff, nurses, physiotherapists and others to keep them in the system, because then the greatest benefit from the reform will be for all of our citizens. Information on the hospital system is also a very important activity in the reform that the minister stressed and which must be and will provide us with a lot of data on quality itself. And I look forward to seeing that this reform recognises and gives guidance in including local and regional self-government in the care of health as an active factor, and not so far as the formal owner of truth with decentralised assets that were important but insufficient and here I would say that decentralisation of the administration, here is Professor Ostojić introduced coalition authority and that is something that is good in the health system, that with that decentralisation, however, she managed to renew equipment in almost all health institutions. So, I don't think it mattered in health care what government is here, but it's important that something if it's good to support everyone as well. But of course, that decentralisation that's about 16 million kuna for my carlovia county. So, it's only for refurbishing equipment is less than 3% of the funds the carlova County spends on the health system over the course of one year. In many ways, the local community will have to engage in attracting experts to its territory, including resolving housing issues and other benefits if it wants to have quality health care in its area. Therefore, the role of future mayors, the mayor who will be... the chosen will be in a large part and care for the health system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, from this brief presentation, this could really be discussed for hours, I absolutely support the adoption of this health reform as proposed by the Ministry of Health and the Minister himself, Dr Milinovic, and here I must express my congratulations on his courage, determination. He also said at the beginning of his mandate that he would have both determination and courage. With this Minister's reform, you've shown it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24089	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24090	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It's an incorrect quote, so it's incorrect and mathematics to kill. It is an accurate claim and it is accurate that 80 million procedures are made in the Republic of Croatia. But the procedure is sedimentation, one is red blood cells, one is white blood cells. I have to be honest, here's something for all of us to look at you like this, we look very healthy in the Croatian Parliament, very healthy colleagues and colleagues and somewhere around 120 of us have been going to a systematic review and we ourselves in the Croatian Parliament have done in the last month 6 thousand new procedures. So it's to understand what the procedures are. We've made six grand, I wish you all health, but in math we need to be a little more careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24091	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one notice. We have a few more agenda points to discuss, and we have a few more MPs on these three agenda points, and we have a few laws that we really need to pass by the end of the session. That is why I will call on the Rules of Procedure after we have finished today's session, and there are more agenda points, an extended session of the presidency with the club presidents, where it is my duty to consult on the possible call for an extraordinary session of the Assembly for Tuesday. Possibly. So I have to do it, and we're gonna do it in the end, a short one session, Parliament Presidency with club representatives. I hope if we wrap this up that there won't be any need for extraordinary sessions, but if an extraordinary session is needed, we'll call an extraordinary session, or we'll extend our work on Tuesday. So I ask clubs, MPs to inform their club presidents, I can't say exactly the time, but after we finish today's session today. That's it, let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, this notice came to me at the right time. Three of the most important things in every man's life. Health, honor and freedom. According to these three most important things in every man's life, you too, President of the Parliament and this entire House, are being treated unseriously. We opened a debate last night at 8:00 about two important things in human life, honor and freedom. Despite the agreement, President-in-Office of the Parliament from the beginning of this session at such a session of the Bureau in an extended composition that we work until 19 hours and that we eventually finish this agenda item that's being discussed at 19 hours without opening new ones. But it's good when a new one opens up. But opening a 20-hour debate on the law, the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act is irresponsible and irresponsible. Take a look at today's newspaper, you have no word in any daily newspaper about the work of the Croatian Parliament. I warned you last night that it was not you but your vice president that it was the humiliation of this House and the ridicule of this House. And that's it, that's it. But you seem to insist on it and now you announce that we will work until who knows when in the night to avoid what? Extraordinary session, so what? SDP club, yesterday I told you he was ready to work all the time on constitutional breaks at an extraordinary session, but let's discuss the laws in quality and let's not bring them to speed, especially those concerning human health, honor and freedom. And the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Penal Code on Speed last night. And today again emergency procedure, emergency procedure. So these are laws that have to be passed at 2:00, maybe in three readings. They concern the health of people, their right to health and to treatment when they suffer. This whole approach is extremely unserious. In terms of these three laws, he is insecure and as much as no one knows how much the Ministry of Health will actually have money for that reform. Minister, when you started representing that reform at those presentations of yours, you had 3 billion more or you thought you'd have 3 billion more than you have today. You've only lost a billion and 700 since this morning, since your opening presentation. Just today. Well, that speaks of the seriousness of accessing this subject. You've executed 3 billion people through the presentation. You've been completely robbed by the ministers. You now as a corrupt rooster need to announce dawn, and you announce twilight. Why twilight? It doesn't make sense, you know, it doesn't make sense to talk about the details of these laws. It doesn't make any sense because God's father doesn't know what you're going to be able to spend, and you don't know it yourself, since you don't know how much money you're going to have. You don't know. But you're like this, 3 billion up, 3 billion down. It's all one thing for you. You always represent the same reform, with 3 billion more or 3 billion less. It is the inconclusiveness of your approach and the approach of this government and the approach of this parliamentary majority that consents to it. And the President of the Parliament who does not resist it and does not protect the dignity of the Parliament, his dignity above all. So if he told the government, so hold on a second, this is the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's an honor to you as well as to the government, but you won't be doing it to us. If we had to work till 10, half 11 in the night, we'd be making laws by emergency procedure, important laws just because someone's in a hurry. I expect you, President of the House, to protect all MPs and yourself and the dignity of this House. And don't let that happen to the government. Resist, they'll appreciate you more. Introduced, what is this? This is, you are in these arguments of the minister's law clearly indicated the purpose of this your call is.. reforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're saying it's to determine new sources of health care financing. That's right. That's the goal. There's no money, there's scratches at the bottom, and now there's money to be made. Where to put it? They promised you in the budget, so they played you. They won't let you out of the budget. Where? Where do you get the money from? That's where you came up. Who? Retired people, citizens, sick people, doctors who need prescriptions, exams, them. They take everything they can take. You're introducing a contribution to the pensioners. It's never been paid by pensioners before, a health contribution. Never. It is for these governments the first time that pensioners, their pensions, will be burdened with a health contribution. That's you and your colleagues making progress big enough to peel pensioners, 3% of those who have more than 5200 kuna pensions. So try to live off the 5200 kuna pension. That's a lot to you. You think that's a lot of them. Well, they do. Since they already have 5200 kuna pensions and let them pay a contribution. And why should pensioners pay a contribution? Well, they've been paying their contribution their whole lives while they've been working. They paid for it. So they fulfilled their obligation until the day they retired. Well, there's no money, so that client's good. Let's get them, too. Let's peel them off. Participation, 15 kuna. In defence of that 15 kuna participation, the minister says: "Yes. You don't have to pay for that participation. Well, you can take extra health care and then there'll be no participation. But you people must understand that in this country people don't have your supplemental health care. That it's a burden to them. That they just don't have any money. Try to make the Minister understand the fact. People don't have money. They're getting harder and poorer every day of this government. They've come to the bottom. People are hungry, they don't have bread and milk. They don't have the power to pay, the rent, they don't. And now you're... On the one hand, that's 15 kuna participation and 15 kuna every time you come in 15 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's going to the doctor? Dude, sick people. Well, they're the sickest. The ones that have the least. And now you tell them... It's supposed to be a whip, and then you offer them a carrot on the other side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a carrot, it's a whip again. Pay up, pay for the extra health care. And in defense of that supplemental health minister, he says, "Yes, but a man can go with them 10 times a day to a doctor." You've hurt all the doctors. Well, what kind of doctor is that if his patient has to go to his place 10 times a day, I guess he'll go to the other one and go to the third. Like that's a great benefit for patients to be able to go to a doctor 10 times a day. Who goes 10 times a day to a doctor? So it's not about the Minister or anything else. Nothing. There's no reform there. There's nothing better for citizens. There's only new payments. What they didn't have to pay until now will have to be paid. That's the reform you're offering them. That's the beginning and that's the end. Who will have neither participation nor supplemental health, and there are such people in this country who will not be able to pay. They'll be the only way out of their illness. Ministers take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24093	Thank you. Since I was apostrophe in the previous debate several times and warned of some possible interventions, I will only find that it is rare when, as in this session of the Assembly, there has been a break in the time of the debate past 7 hours since the Parliament exists. Since there's been a Parliament, and I've known since it existed. Since the '90s. There have never been fewer of these breakthroughs of time when I only specifically warned that sometimes we might have to extend as an exceptional exception, not as a rule. That's how it happened. Time was respected about seven hours, between six and seven. It happened last night that a little longer and once more or twice more and then a catastrophic assessment of the work of the Parliament and a warning from the president of the parliament to put an end to it. If you had warned of Parliament's dignity from 2000 until the end of 2003 when the budget debate ended at midnight and at midnight and one hour continued an extraordinary session then I would have taken your proposal well-meaningly and I would probably have reacted differently. But since you never did, and there were countless times in those four years when we worked up to 10 and 12 hours and when the very important laws were on the agenda, it never occurred to you to warn. Today you found yourself teaching us a lesson. And not for the first time. The Parliament's dignity should be defended continuously and not only when someone from another party is the President of the Parliament, but when mine is not to say anything. So this Parliament has been working for the last 10 months. We have passed 124 European laws with everything else, whether something was quick or not about it afterwards. But this Parliament worked responsibly, seriously and seriously discussing the agenda points. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24094	Thank you very much. So my colleague Stazic said a few incorrect things in that small part of the speech he spoke about health care. I quote: "No one knows how much the ministry will have money. You've lost three billion ministers. You've been robbed." A colleague should read, learn and learn how to speak. It is true that the minister has received 900 million kuna for the recovery of debts this year and I congratulate him on that. It's worth twice as much to him as he got next year because he won't pay interest, because there won't be any threat to supplying our hospitals. You also said that during this government citizens live harder and poorer than before. During this government, the net salary increased by 48%. After your government, it's not hard to fix the standard at all. And you said, the innocuousness is to talk about three billion up, down. Unseriousness is something else, this is incorrect. It's true that it's inconclusive to talk about something that someone doesn't know about, and that's you in the case of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24095	Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24096	Thank you, Mr. President. So I still don't think it's true that no one is following this debate, that no one has any insight into what we're saying, and precisely because of those who follow it, I have to correct this quote, because he really thinks he's a huge abuse of this place and actually misinformation of people. When you tell your colleague Stazic about the pensioners, you say that this government this minister runs after them, grabs them, peels them off, and I don't know what he's doing to them. Therefore, it is both malicious and incorrect. And in fact, all that seems to this reform is to ensure and stabilise the system. And it was these people and everyone else who provided quality health care. And it's also our responsibility here because we're the ones who, in a certain way, are advocating certain ideas, and that they're not how bright and good they are, and if we have this kind of destruction, then it's hard to carry them out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24097	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin, also a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24098	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First thing I'd like to do is correct my colleague, Stazic, who says we have to work by 10 o'clock. Mr. Stazic, you don't have to work until 10 o'clock, but I remember very well we were together in the Parliament when we worked from 12th extraordinary session to 3am, and you would have to take me up to 10 and longer, because you were gone all day in the Parliament. On the other hand, I'm not going to talk to the pensioners about it, because if you're paying for a supplemental health insurance policy, then there really isn't any participation for the pensioners you're talking about. That there's no reform, that's not true. There is no reform for you because you obviously did not read the Health Care Act, because you did not talk about either the hospital system, the primary system, or the emergency medical care, or the quality, or the organisation of a health care institution, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24099	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24100	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Stazic again mentioned the introduction of participation in the health insurance system in a partial and selective way, thus scaring citizens and insurance companies, which is not true. It is not true that out of 4 million 437 thousand and 460 residents in supplementary insurance, the same conditions remain for 4 million and 1 thousand and 122 insurance companies and only 436 thousand 338 insurance companies are subject to new conditions. And it is certain that these 436 338 are not the ones the colleague said they were hungry for, and they have neither bread nor milk, because the ministry and this government are counting on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24101	Thank you very much. Minister Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24102	President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you. Well, here's a few words. And the esteemed representative Hebrang has already explained these billions and 700 million kunas. Dear Representative Stazic says that this proposal for reform of the health system gives us nothing, that the patient gets nothing. Well, here's what I'm gonna say. Let's say in Lovran, I was already saying that for the installation of hip endoprothesis from 2.5 years of waiting list to year and 3 months. I don't know if it's who it's for. Mr. Stazic's missing, but I guess he's listening somewhere. So by the end of the year, Clinically Hospital Split will solve the waiting list of 3 thousand 284 patients. The department at the Ministry of Health which was formed for the waiting list is in this month and a half we introduced and an additional second shift called over 3,000 patients by name and last name and directed them either to another hospital and said exactly at 11:15 p.m. please report to this hospital and to solve your search. The General Hospital of Vukovar introduced shift work, abolished the waiting list for CT, and thus released the General Hospital of Vinkovci. General Hospital Holy Spirit by opening additional capacities shortened the waiting list for enDoprothesis of hips. Zadar, by introducing shift work, shortened the waiting list in a month for magnetic resonance and CT. Now I'm asking who it's for. It's probably for the English, it's not for Croatian patients or I don't know who. And I expect by the end of the year that certain hospitals will break their limits because I have systematically called on directors to break through the limits for the last two months. If the waiting list is 100 so when you break through the limit if the waiting list is 80, I am a cartoon, it will be made up to you and that is the Croatian budget next year. Not Minister Milinovic has been robbed of any budget. I want to thank all ministers in the Croatian government, especially Prime Minister Sanader, who is and I said it is time and investment in Croatian health. Please note, I would like to thank all the ministers of the Croatian government for having made an additional effort together to invest in the health of the Croatian nation. And if that were the case, the minister was not robbed because two months ago, when Minister Milinovic set out to present a health system reform, he left with 19 million and 461 million 565 million kuna today with amendments to the Croatian government, which will be adopted on Monday by the health minister before you with a budget for HZZO 23 billion and 500 million kuna. So let's add up, is it 19 million and a half or 23.5 million kuna? So, two months ago, the health minister left without 4 billion kuna, today you are facing the Ministry of Health, which the prime minister recognized to invest in Croatian health and all other members of the Croatian government. I thank them for that, coalition partners, all who have recognized the moment to invest in Croatian health care. So, two months ago and today 4 billion kunas more Croatian government, coalition partners invest in Croatian health care. And if that's so likely this is in favor, let's go to those waiting lists that was probably in favor of the English, and this is let's say in favour of the Swiss. Ortoped devices and aids from 420 to 580 million kuna, 20% higher. Let's move on. A traineeship from 65 to 90 million, 30% higher. Ten million more for specialization. It is also an answer to the master plan that we are preparing and calling for a consensus to respond jointly to the chronic lack of health care personnel. Medical cardiology from nine million to 25 million, just over 200 percent. It's probably for the Swiss, not for Croatian patients. Intervention neurology from a million to 10 million, 900% higher. For whom it is not for Croatian patients, I am going back to intervention cardiology perhaps the most tangible at this time. Especially expensive drugs from 250 to 510 million kuna. Who's that dear friends for? It's probably for Americans if it's not for Croatian patients. Transplants in hospitals that we encourage. And once again, I want to congratulate myself, thanking all the families who have decided at the most difficult moments to live their loved one continues in someone else's body. Because of this, it was my obligation as minister and Croatian government to increase the hospital transplant by 100%, from 45 to 82 million kuna. So who's that for?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24103	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24104	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Kulusic is in my comments right now, and I hope you don't mind if I actually convince that comment here literally, he said the following. He says this is incomprehensible. He says if someone thinks we've got problems in the health system, and here all the time we're saying that we have and if someone catches up with solving that problem and carries with it that there are so many attacks on... So in this one you can really sum up almost today the whole day's exposure of most of what we've heard on this one thesis that is, I think it's totally standing. [[You don't understand.]] So if there's a problem we've defined it, you agree with it, if someone shows up here and wants to deal with that problem, so let's give it if we don't help him, let's not care. So this president or vice president of your club SDP has shown 101 dissatisfaction. He saw that the minister would respond to these dissatisfactions and the man left the hall. That means he doesn't care. Let's stay away from that. On the other hand, the press was often mentioned. Well, I think the printer came here amongst us, and my colleague I'll stay, you understand what I'm talking about right now, whoever read Andrija Printer's resume and his works, he'd know I believe, that Andrija Printer would say thank you nicely, don't mention me. So why? Well, it wasn't Andrija Printer at the time he was, he was dealing with problems I don't know the costs in the health system, but he was dealing with even creating and setting up a system. What was he dealing with? Well, he was dealing with individual responsibility, so in terms of health. Well, we have that in a certain way today. So if you saw that these people here, this system is trying to fight for availability, for equality, for risk sharing, for quality health care, I say for individual responsibility, didn't even know what the database medicine was and it was included in that. Which is efficiency, which is efficiency, which is etc. So if he saw it, he would give absolutely support to these people here, this minister and I am giving them support and congratulating you, and whatever I can't say, honestly here, I feel no matter what my contribution is, this debate is minor. But I feel part of your reform, so part of your team, and I'm giving you absolute support, and I think it's good for all these people who are in good faith to have that feeling, and it's good to have everyone involved. Col. Ostojić was saying I would say the chosen words, and in that selection he found several tipfelers in this law. I suggest that these types of IDs, and I would also like to ask that we correct the tipfeller of this debate, some of the discussions we've heard and which were just politics. And I'm sorry that I spent this much time in this because I was really touched, and now I'd go into a real problem. When spoken and when this minister is attacked here, this team here, as for God's sake, this reform is not scientific, so it's not comprehensive, it's not complete. Then when someone talks like that, they'd have to know what the theory of reform is, how those who know what reform is, what reform contains. Those who know it can't argue, let's say one Harbard, the Harbard Public Health School, she probably knows what reform it is. Whoever thinks I'm making up, get on their pages, read their materials, then they'll see what reform is for them. For them, the reform is an assessment of the state of the health system in a way that is accompanied by three basic elements. One element is the health condition of the population. It is known exactly how it is measured and how it is assessed. You know what health indicators are, you know what data is in the health system. So it's measured, it's estimated. It is also known that the satisfaction of the healthcare users and the satisfaction of the service provider is measured and assessed. The third element to be measured and assessed is what, financial risks, i.e. financial risk departments of the total burden, etc. That's three basic elements. There are four left, also important, that's the four so-called. Now, that's... /The speaker speaks English./... or involving patients in the system. This first one is whether the health system is doing the right thing, or if it achieves effects, is efficiency. So you measured it, you followed it, you saw it. We say he does. The other one is if they achieve in the best possible way, that means basically whether we allocate more resources for some things we don't need to isolate because what we're saying is we can kill a fly and I don't know, we don't have to shoot a sheet of paper from a cannon. Do all people here have equal health care? So that fourth, so people's involvement, patients in the system itself. These health councils you've set up, many other committees, administrative councils where patients are involved, speak in the best way about the openness of the system. And now we go back to the three main elements in which they are actually implemented and whether they have in this, in this reform, whether there's in this material that we have today, whether there's science. Let's take the turn. So that same school that I was talking about earlier, she's preaching, she's advocating, she's scientifically proving that this so-called. the records of waste reforms are carried out in a way that would affect these three elements, that they must return and observe five basic elements in the system and that they must be changed. One is funding. What are these laws doing here and what's in them? The mass of changes and additions related to the financing of the system. The second is paying and contracting health care. So here we have so many new elements, we have a DDS which is a whole new element of God. Therefore, with the aim of repairing the situation. The third element that is also being monitored, which is being changed to achieve these three effects, therefore also measured, is regulation. So we have, therefore, all these laws that we pass as such, that I don't speak of the previous laws that preceded this here today as we speak. One of them is, for example, and if you remember the Law on the Rights of Patients that we brought in the last meeting, the other is the Quality Act, which is the Quality Act at all, or what the Quality Act offers if it does not offer a new approach, a new reform. So only now in Croatia are we introducing systematic monitoring of the quality of healthcare and it is covered by this reform. That's not what it's been until now. And just one note, which means in practice. American state-owned insurance houses... will not sign a contract with that healthcare institution that systematically does not monitor the quality of healthcare. [[You don't understand.]] Why? Well, because there is no guarantee of quality on the one hand, and on the other hand there is no guarantee that for as much money as those effects being sought are made. Therefore, any investment in quality is the investment that is far the most paid in the health system. Why? Well, because investment in quality as such, which is now covered by this reform, is now being done by this government, is now being done by this minister. It's in front of all of us. It also means fighting in a certain way to establish an internal quality control that no one has ever done before. How to establish an external quality assessment? How do you achieve as many good effects as possible? How to prevent side effects? And every investment in this activity is actually cost-effective, because one side effect, one side effect actually in the health sector, in health care is more difficult and expensive than all the money invested in the quality conservation system. And the fourth, i.e. the last one, pardon the fifth element that is estimated to be whether some reform scientific is so-called. is actually an attempt to in a certain way through public campaigns and public action to make the consciousness of an individual change in a way that he accepts responsibility for his health. According to the Health Protection Act, I don't know in the third article, I think that the Croatian state, that the health sector is actually responsible for the health of every human being and that each of these people has the right to equal and quality health care. But in that same article, the same article states that it is the obligation of each individual to care for his health and to participate in a certain way, in fact, to support that system. Now I finally see that I'm red. I'm closing up. In order for us to implement this reform, in order for this reform to be truly feasible, it is necessary that we actually communicate with the public in a way that we respect this public and involve it in this debate, and we cannot deceive it. Therefore, Parliament is a very important place to hear truth and possibly criticism that is constructive, not destructive, and that will confuse people. Therefore, I urge you both here and the public to accept and support this reform for the health of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24105	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is Mr. Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'd like to rephrase, or say a few words. My colleague Bagarić really said everything here and I would only correct it because this was also about Dr Andrija Stampar where here are some colleagues from the opposite camp who really want to insult those people who created health care and those who run this health care today. And I'm just going to point out how much they're leading to making sure that the same bust they got from public health in the city of Pozega was placed on the train station. And that's no less than this representative of ours who hasn't been here in eight days, Mr. Ronko. So here's how much they take care of it that way. So, Dr. Andrija Stamper, who was born in my municipality, was stationed at a bus station like that was a trafficker. Well, that is just proof of how much care is being taken about people who have left a deep trail of health care and who have created health care in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24107	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24108	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Kolega Bagarić is a member of the team because you are as far as I know the chairman of the Management Board of the Quality Agency. So that's why you were talking. That's why I'm saying it. So it's not just this minor you said a minor debate. You're a member of the team. You're the president of the Quality Agency Management Board and you mentioned Harvard. I'm clearly trained in Harvard and I'm a full member of Harvard Lumnia and I'm glad you've been able to read the principles of grading Harvard and it would be very good if you were a member of the executive administration. If at least 50% of these principles were applied in the current reform. Unfortunately, it's not like that, but I have to be honest, I'm very glad you're familiar with the principles. The printer said the issue of health is not only a humanitarian issue but a primarily an economic issue. That's the point. Economic issue plus education. Education, therefore, for the importance of maintaining health, prevention of disease, both hundreds of years, 50 years and in the future. I support my colleague, Bagaric, that those principles of Harvard apply. If they had applied, that quality was monitored, that statistics were not monitored, they would not have been on 29 of the 31st of Europe, according to the recent report from Brussels. You're okay with that? Why? Because she wasn't being followed because she wasn't being followed. The responsibility is on you now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24109	Thank you. Answer Mr. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24110	Thank you, Mr. President. Kologa Ostojić, part of the team, has the right to make it right and when he said that I should feel more, even more part of this team here, and I can proudly say it, and I hope that one day, Mr. Minister, we will publish a scientific paper on successful reform in the Croatian system. So fellow Ostojić may also be a co-signator of that article, but give his contribution in any case. ... One of the authors. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And when it comes to this assessment that you were talking about, if you're talking about the evaluation that was evaluated in a way that only some parameters were considered then it's really not relevant and you know it's not a relevant assessment because you know even better than I know that the health system in the Republic of Croatia is far, far away, thank God far more successful, far better primarily thanks to quality doctors, quality medical staff. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24111	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bagarić, you can say that we are illiterate and unspeakable and arrogant and irresponsible. It's all your right to try and tell how much you stand with your soul and body behind this debate. That's enough of those remarks. I've never been involved before. I didn't mean to get involved, but as this is and the question of economics, then I'll tell you very clearly. It cannot succeed and this reform will not succeed, because it is not economically covered. It's not covered and it can't be covered. It can't be covered, because one part of it goes to the pensioners and the other part to the employees, and neither one of them has enough basket for monthly survival. And most of it comes from the state budget and non-transparent incomes. And the state budget always has problems with the annual ending. And that's the problem of reform. And that's the problem of reform and the economic issue, and it puts them first in principle. And you can stand up and talk, but we had an extra insurance policy and a participation or a fee and we walked around all the time. And we walk around all the time. And that's why this left-hand side will always be against such unspeakable proposals, and you can make noises, discredit your political opponents, talk about them, you just need to know doesn't help you. We'll talk and we'll yell. So whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24113	You can talk, but you don't have to yell, and I was hoping we'd try a consensus in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24114	About what? About incapacitated health funding?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24115	We watched you and listened to you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24116	Well, I apologize for the time, for taking a lot of time, but I have to say that I didn't tell my colleague Linic, and I didn't mention that anyone was illiterate, uncultured, and so on. I really didn't say that. I just said there was irresponsible politics. And that was it. And on the other hand, about everything else you've said, I've said what I've had, but it's also said by the economic social council, so if it gives you support, for God, I can't possibly take your position relevant to them, and you speak for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24117	Thank you. And Mr. Zdenko Franic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24118	Honored Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleague. You said no one's ever done quality before. However, I would like to remind you that for many years the Croatian accreditation agency has been operating in the Republic of Croatia, and yet in Croatia, it was the first to act as part of the National Bureau of Standardization and Measurement since the mid-1990s, and later in 2003 by adopting a series of laws, and then in 2004, the government regulations begin to act as a private agency of the state of Croatia. It has been accredited about 150 which laboratories, which certification institutions so that we have as regards the quality management system of the certified example hospital Vuk Vrhovac, the Institute of Transfusion Medicine, the dental polyclinic in Perkovcheva, to list just some, and a whole series of laboratories is already accredited in the system of health and not only according to norm 17 025, but also according to norm 15 189 of these chemical and biochemical laboratories, that is, in Zajce’s street, Zajce’s hospital, Vinogradska and so on. Therefore, as regards institutional quality concerns, in the very right sense of the word that is meant in the system of European accreditation. In Croatia we already have centres of excellence, and this Quality Agency, which operates within the Ministry of Health, is unfortunately more about quality assurance, and not about accreditation, and there should not actually be a double capacity because there is already an accreditation agency that does its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24119	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24120	Thank you, Mr. President. I think... One thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, about your replica. The Croatian accreditation agency is completely different from the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency. So, if anyone was still engaged in quality as such in Croatia in general, I did not say it was not, but I said that no one was systematically engaged, systematically within the health system. No, I don't. So it could have happened and I accept what you're saying is that some laboratory, that I don't know the equipment, the space and so on accredited as such, but that the conduct of a continuous quality control procedure within and outside of health institutions, in Croatia it's not done and this proposal is absolutely unacceptable because it's pears and apples. So, this is fine by you to say, let it stand, let it go its own way, but the Quality and Accreditation Agency should certainly as well live in other countries and I hope her long and happy life.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24121	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Sir, it's the first time we've heard and seen that plate, but I believe you've raised it, so go ahead. Here, Mr. Joseph Leco. Is that a replica, is it? Then there's Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24122	Yes, thank you very much. I can't help but stand up and wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24123	Well, he could have been beaten before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24124	He was a colleague he saw. Okay, thank you very much. Namely, what was I going to say? It is quite wrong, MPs in the Croatian Parliament who disagree with the bill of one or the other or their third debate and qualify their arguments as an attack on ministers. This is completely wrong for Parliament and democracy. And when it comes to the essence, then it would really be better if not only for the MPs, but also for the citizens that the minister intends to achieve two goals set by the Mandatory Insurance Act. Limit cost growth and establish financial stability and maintain the same level of health services or even higher levels of health services and secondly identify new sources of health care financing if he says here that the number of participations and the number of persons participating in the financing of health care are reduced. So, logically for all citizens, it has to say what these are new sources of funding and how many of them will get together and what is the goal for it. And there's no personal relationship. It's about representing the interests of the citizens as we see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24125	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24126	Thank you, Mr. President. So I accept this part of your answer, or criticism, but I didn't think, of course I didn't think, if I said so, then I apologize that all those who didn't agree that they were, I don't know either. It's very clear what I've said and what speeches I've rated for the tipfellers. So, I even made that clear, and I even mentioned Professor Ostojić and I didn't say a word wrong about what he was saying, although he didn't agree either. However, when it comes to this spending on the health system, there is a minister here, I think he will agree. So he has already shown that he has restrained consumption in a certain way, an increase in costs in the hospital sector. Now, you say how it goes with each other, how you keep the same level, and I don't know how to cut costs. And no one thinks, nor does the minister think he'll be able to keep spending, I don't know what he's like today, that's what he'll be like in five years. However, let this consumption, i.e. the increase in consumption, as much as is followed by economic growth, and for that time, it is a trick, in this it is the importance of this quality, both for as little resources, or how rationally to use the funds, and to achieve the same effects. How irrationally do you think the funds are spent in the hospital sector, in primary health care, for medicines, etc., not to mention how much they end up in the junk of drugs, as much as they don't raise these findings, I don't know what they do, etc., etc. Therefore, I am aware that the increase in consumption, that consumption will grow, but that will be controlled, this increase and consumption, is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24127	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, he's gone. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24128	Mr. President-in-Office, thank you, Mr. Secretary, fellow MPs. We've been discussing health reform all day today, and that's good. Health reform is necessary and it is good to think that we are finally trying to solve this painful point of our society in a way. I'm not a health care professional, and this is not my profession. However, as a good citizen, I am well informed, relatively well informed, something about general health problems. What I am interested in and what I would like the Minister of Health to hear, of course, and fellow MPs, which is the health care of the defender. Does it exist today, has it ever existed and can we have it in the future if we agree that we haven't had it yet? Mr. Minister and here are all our doctors here from Ostojić, Mr. Hebrang, Milinović, Jovanovic, were defenders, I think prominent defenders and I hope that they will understand and support me in these efforts to encourage better, faster, or better quality health care for defenders. Today in the Republic of Croatia, we have two ministries, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, but in these two ministries we have no doctors, no teams, no departments leading and monitoring and planning health care for defenders. You all know that this group of people and this generation of people who brought the Homeland War on their backs, after a 5-year terrible war but a winning war, suffered a lot of things, that often gets sick, dies of various types of disease even though they're relatively young people. I have a few friends myself who were in good shape and were relatively young, so somewhere in the early 40s, they simply died. I've been asking a little bit of questions these days about the practices of countries that also had wars and wars in the environment and beyond, America, Israel. All these countries have developed a health care system for their war veterans, for their warriors. I don't imagine that we can have something like that, but we just can't have something like that because we're not rich enough and it's a real situation and we have to be simply real in this situation, especially in today's situation and the way we have it in the whole world. But we can make our own health care for the defenders, we can have our own personal health care and this way especially treat the defenders as one category of people who deserves such special treatment in society. What I would like to see, having in the Republic of Croatia is a consensus of all parties on health care for defenders. Our defender in the Republic of Croatia has about half a million which is one big number. It would be good if the Department of Health had an example. A list of all defenders, a list of all diseases with types of diseases, to see what attacks us as a well-organized enemy. I won't talk about the vet hospital, although some countries have more of those hospitals in their health care system. We simply need to be realistic and aware of the situation we are in. I ask you to consider a way to organise preventive checks, Mr. Minister. The defence ministry has initiated something that has allocated 3 million kunas to target groups, wartime military disableds, for people who have spent a long time in the camp, for families of the dead. That's about 3 million kuna, but that's not enough for now, because we have a lot of people who need that preventive examination. And that's a little bit of course. The Ministry of Defence cannot only react in this situation and monitor all these complex and demanding health problems. Today, we have about 30 thousand people who are suffering from PTSD who have submitted today a request for recognition of PTSD status. There's about 5 grand in Israel. Now, I wonder why we're wondering why there are so few people in Israel who have PTSD? Because they have a preventive system and awareness of health policy for their warriors, for their defenders. And that's why there's a high percentage of the cured, which is unfortunately impossible for us to say. You all doctors who are yourselves defenders, you have to devote more time to this problem. In this health reform, I've heard nothing about defenders. In my opinion, the Ministry of Health must be the bearer of all ideas, projects related to the health care of the defender. I don't want to fight who did what, or who did what, who didn't do something. It's time to start doing something now. It would be good if everyone together, I say sober-headed doctors, draw, smart, real and effective policy towards the defenders. We don't have a system-based defense attorney's health issue, but all of this is resolved from case to case. I suggest that we form a health center from a doctor, a defender, who will develop a national health strategy for defenders, and give answers to health and defence problems and how to address them in the future. Mr. President of the Parliament, fellow MPs, we're full of defense attorneys' mouths all the time when we need something for some of our narrow interests, but when we need something special to do, it seems like we're not even going to listen to people's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24129	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24130	Thank you very much Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Ante Kotromanović is absolutely right. In advance, the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for this term is health care from page 74 to page 80, and no mention of the healthcare of the defenders is made in any place. Although initial actions are initial, I think for 3,000 families of preventive action, but we certainly need to organise a National Strategy for Defence, especially since some of them were here in the war. You know, going to war, wearing a uniform from a civilian system were you a doctor, a lawyer, an economist, a trafficker, a waiter not easy. It's not simple. And trauma, the stress is coming out right now. That's why it's definitely important. And you've been to America now, so you've seen that every hospital at VA University has a veteran office, a hospital that's just taking care of their war veterans, and it would be a good idea for us to bring in these war veterans. It's kind of a good international word that would be more appropriate than this one right now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24131	Thank you. And finally, Minister Darko Milinovic. I hope concisely so. Is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24132	Here's the esteemed Mr. President. Here's how much from 9 to 5 we're discussing reforming the health system, and I have to say I'm happy with this debate. Perhaps I should refer immediately to the care of the Croatian state about the health of the defenders, only one segment which is in the power of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ms Kosor where we conduct systematic checks on defenders who are abundant of PTSD and members of their families, as well as a number of other measures. But here's because I want to be very brief at the end of this debate so I don't count them. I thank you for today's debate, which still took place in one direction that I wished for, and at the beginning of today at 9 a.m., we heard some good suggestions. As I said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was sitting at a time when we discussed the reform of the health system and only for technical reasons because we could not put these good proposals into the law. The government will go into procedure. In fact, they will make several amendments to make these proposed laws even more qualitative. I think we're still on our way. It seems to me that still, when we said 10 months ago, we raise health care out of narrow party interests. This is also the testimony of today's debate and the praise of IDS, Mr Lesar, national minorities, coalition partners, and the SDP, because I have heard that you are, of course, agreeing with certain things and all of the good proposals that we have heard today we will try to put into these reform laws so that this is indeed one of the universally important projects, which is a reform of the health system. I'll read some of the support we've got so far. When you say we didn't have a wide public discussion. Croatian dental chamber, full support for health system reform. Croatian medical chamber, is that a profession. The mother of the pensioner of Croatia except for that part 3% above 5 thousand and 200 kuna. That's what I have to say for the truth's sake of telling everyone else they support. A coalition of health associations, so patients. Croatian pharmaceutical chamber. We're referring to Andrija Printer. Ladies and gentlemen, the Professional Council of the Andrija Printar School has given support to this reform. And now that I mention the printer, it's his I'm going to tell Lika Doda was originally from like this. He's in his own time, and you're saying that we gave up that model in a small place between Gorica and Sisak, in Maracelin, there was an endemic area of malaria. And then he explored why he saw it as a swampy area, went with his teams to dry out those swamps and thus fight malaria. He recognized the area's health problems. And now what are we introducing? Professional advice for health in counties that must identify the health problems of a particular county. Well, let's put it this way. In Lika-Senj County, some kind of increased incidence, I don't know finally bronchitis. Or this in Sisak, which the distinguished representative Petyr mentioned. The home of health can form a dispensary that will deal with the problem that year. Is that a return to the foundations of Andrija Printer? Association of those suffering from thyroid disease, the Academy of Medical Sciences, a series of citizens, an economic council whose member I am and Mr. Ljubo Jurčić. The top economic experts supported this reform, of course coalition partners, national minorities, and I will say in the end there is no such thing in this House, regardless of the color of the political jersey I haven't talked to, I failed to reach the SDP. My call was without a figurine in your pocket, come to you, discuss, maybe you'd hear some. I was looking for myself. You might have heard some good suggestions, but you've seen it as politics, and there's no political party in this House I haven't talked to. There's no political party but the SDP. I have to tell you that. Both the HNS and the HDSSB, and the IDS, we have seen that we have put some of their demands and good suggestions in this proposal for reform of the health system and I am truly sorry that I failed to talk to you as well. I am convinced that the reform will succeed. Most of course I thank the same national minorities, only minorities as coalition partners, and most of course I want to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, coalition partners and, of course, my strongest party in Croatia HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24133	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24134	Well, he said Mr. Minister that we in the SDP are his call to present health reform to us as politics. It's incorrect, Mr. Minister. We just told you that it was more correct of you. That you invited us to talk or on white paper, see at all what kind of reform Croatian health needs, or that you have made concrete proposals, concrete laws, and that is why we sat down. Sit down and talk on the basis of a power point presentation that's been changing from day to day, is absolutely incorrect. It's politics from your party, not ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24135	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on these three agenda points. We'll decide on Monday. Thank you very much. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Health Protection Act. The emergency procedure was, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The 230th hearing is closed. During the debate, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. The review of the other amendments submitted is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. It's Minister Darko Milinovic. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance. And that looks like we're gonna put it off a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24138	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to calm the situation, the first amendment is not accepted. The adoption of a health protection plan for the Republic of Croatia is also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the Law on the Construction and Fractional of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, and it is therefore appropriate to decide that the Health Protection Plan, with the opinion of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Competent Chambers, should be adopted by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24139	Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24140	Well, I disagree with this because health protection is much wider than what the Ministry of Health does, and I believe that the health care plan must be brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24141	Thank you. Who's for this amendment number one? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The government's amendment has been accepted. Third amendment of Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24142	The third amendment is not accepted. The questions of holding a meeting of the Health Council should be addressed to their Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24143	Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24144	Since there is an Emergency Aid Council that has not met once every four years, I insist that my amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24145	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24146	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24147	Ms. Counselor Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24148	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24149	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fifth Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24150	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24151	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The sixth representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24152	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24153	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The government's amendment has been accepted. The eighth representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24154	It's unacceptable. Article 27 defines teams performing primary health activities, and paragraph 2 of the same article addresses the issue of teams consisting of a pediatric specialist and a nurse. The establishment of child health care services would be prevented from performing these tasks in areas where there are not enough pediatricians, and the proposed solution would allow these tasks to be carried out by general family medicine specialists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24155	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24156	So, on the contrary, because my amendment continues to ensure that primary child health care is in principle taken care of by a pediatrician on the team with a nurse, or medical technician. The determination that this may seem and in the family medicine office does not satisfy certain other conditions such as the conditions for a paediatric clinic, because in a pediatric hospital not only come to sick children but also healthy children and you must have two types of rooms. So you have a room for healthy children and you have a room for sick children. If my amendment is not accepted, you will have to change the rules on the conditions for opening an office because you will have to introduce a room for healthy children, or a room for healthy children, or a room for healthy children, in the offices of family medicine. Because in the family medicine office mostly sick adults come. So if my amendment is not accepted, then it's a step back in the intelligence policy, because we just said we want to increase health care for preschool children. Finally, there is also a major project specializing in pediatrics. If, then, we allow for the care of preschool children everywhere because we do not say that where there is no pediatrician to take care of family medicine but we say that it is a complete ego. So either a pediatrician or a family medicine. This ultimately does not correspond to the degree of their specialist training. And I'd like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24157	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The ninth amendment, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24158	Amendment nine is not accepted. Since the public health service network determines the number of healthcare professionals needed for a particular area to be contracted with the institution, and given the responsibility and responsibility of the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the abovementioned Law on Design, the part-round of the central authorities of the state administration is appropriate to the proposed solution for bringing the network to a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24159	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24160	Well, Mr. Minister, I would like to warn you that in this article you have actually two important changes. Even if I agree with you that the minister can bring in a network it's completely illogical to consider changes, are you listening to me? .../Milinović: Yes, to listen./... So it's completely illogical, since it's important to extend the responsibility of units of regional self-government not to participate in the adoption of the network. Therefore, I can agree that, given what you have said, the minister brings it in, but I suggest that it be mandatory with the Institute, the Croatian Institute of Public Health also lists the unit of the regional self-government that must be consulted in the adoption of the network, as this concerns the units of the regional self-government. Isn't that logical?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24161	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The tenth amendment of the government has been accepted. The 11th representative of Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24162	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24163	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 12th government has been accepted. Thirteenth also Vladin. Fourteenth, Dr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24164	It's unacceptable. The proposed solution is excessive, as it is also set out in Article 31. The law on institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24165	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24166	Well, according to the bill, someone might start working even though they didn't get the minister's permission, so I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24167	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 15th Amendment of the Government has been accepted. Sixteenth, Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24168	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24169	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 17th Vladin has been accepted. The eighteenth was also accepted by the government. Nineteenth, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24170	The same content of the government's amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24171	I'm withdrawing the amendment because it's embedded in the previous item.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24172	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. The 20th Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted. Twenty-first, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representative. Twenty-first yes?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24173	He doesn't accept. The concept of public health also includes social medicine, and pharmacological analyses are carried out by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, not the Department of Public Health of the County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24174	Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24175	Well, unfortunately, I disagree. We know what the Croatian Institute of Public Health is doing in Zagreb. Pharmacoeconomic analysis is a key activity in the future and I believe that it should be listed in the activities carried out by the Croatian Institute for Public Health with its regional exposures and ask to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24176	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Twenty-two amendments to the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24177	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24178	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 24th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24179	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24180	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 25th, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24181	It's unacceptable. That reason is not the basis for the termination of the company’s operation, but may be the basis for the declaration of the health inspection measure and the competent chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24182	Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24183	Well, this is not true what the minister said because the same article that applies, Article 159 specifically prescribes that closure will occur if they implement an ad contrary to the regulations adopted by the competent chamber. So I suggest you vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24184	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26th, the same representative of Dr. Zeljko Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24185	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24186	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 27, the same agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24187	It's unacceptable. The time standard does not allow more than two teams to work in a pharmacy and a medical biochemical laboratory.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24188	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24189	Well, Mr. Minister, I ask you to think again about what you said because there are both pharmacies and medical biochemical labs that work 3 and more teams. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24190	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 28th and 29th are the Government's amendments that have been accepted. 30, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24191	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24192	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 31, Agent Boris Sprem?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24193	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24194	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 32nd, representative of Mrs. Romana Jerkovic and Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24195	It is not accepted because the submitted content is identical to the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24196	Mr. Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24197	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24198	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 33., the Governments of the Republic of Croatia have been accepted. The 34th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24199	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24200	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 35th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24201	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24202	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 36th, the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and 37th is a Government that has been accepted. And the 38th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24203	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24204	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you very much. First, I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Health Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 32 against the adopted Health Protection Act together with the amendments adopted. The HSLS and HSU representative club proposes to the Assembly to draw 2 conclusions. The first proposal for a conclusion is: First, the Ministry of Health and Social Care undertakes within 3 months of the adoption of the Health Protection Act by amending the Regulation... a clear separation of interest links between public and private health in order to prevent possible conflicts of interest and corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24205	By this law, we do not accept this first point because this law clearly separates us from private health by eradicating all articles of the Law of Commercial Companies as contract entities of state health insurance of HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24206	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24207	Dear Mr. Minister, although it is not said here, it was thought of what the doctor was doing in his office, ordering patients for the afternoon, whether, in some private opinion, we didn't seem to understand. Is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24208	Thank you. Minister, are you staying with your position?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24209	I'm staying at this conclusion. And this is the next part we need to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24210	Thank you. We have a proposal for a club the government doesn't accept. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was not accepted because it voted 22 in favour, 12 abstentions and 69 against. We have a second conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is committed within 6 months of the adoption of the law to amend and supplement the relevant laws, and in particular the Labour Act to ensure the registration and payment of all specific work in all activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24211	The government does not accept because the adoption of the Labour Act depends not only on the government but also on the social partners. That's why we don't accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24212	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24213	I would have been much happier if you had said that this, Mr. Minister, is a short time of 6 months that you have to comply with the social partners because this is only in favour of the state budget, or pension and health insurance systems. It is about the recording and payment of total work done in all activities, and you well know that such work is particularly present in the activities of trade and construction and that this direct system of health care, i.e. the pension system loses significant money, and that is much, much more than the 136 million kuna that we will receive by contributing to pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24214	Let us please include voting on another conclusion that the government does not accept. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The conclusion was not accepted because it voted 14 for, 20 abstentions and 71 against. We move to - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 220. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received a proposal for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law be discussed in an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports at the front desk. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the HSLS and HSU Representatives Club. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Ivica Mladneo. Come on, congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24770	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The amendment of the Law on Contributions is a continuation of the tax reform of the health system, which changes and regulates the change of this law. This introduces new insurance companies for healthcare users and insurance companies based on pensioners and insurance companies based on an unemployed person. The pensioners have two categories, one category of pensioners who have a peace pay below the average net salary of one-eight for legal persons of 5,000 108 and account for a contribution of 1% per pension rate and go to the burden of the state budget. The second category is pensioners who have a pension above the average salary, meaning more than 5 thousand 108 kuna and account for a 3% contribution but out of retirement. The effects would be about 130 million kuna. For the unemployed, a contribution that would be calculated on the lowest monthly basis for 2009 is 2 thousand 611 kuna and would be paid at a rate of 5%, and would go to the burden of the state budget, which would amount to around 400 million kuna, and this 1% on pensions that would also go to the burden of the state budget, 264 million kuna. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24771	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24772	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. And this law is one of the rules that Croatia is obliged to bring about and... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. - Social policy and employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The need for a transparent regulation of the financing of the financing of health care funds of Croatian citizens has arisen, in particular the issue of cost-settling for insurance, special beneficiaries of pensions and insurance,... and unemployed persons, i.e. any person provided with health care through a mandatory insurance system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal for a law by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office was found to be an account according to a pension whose amount is up to the amount of the average net salary and a certain rate of 1% of the contributions will be accounted for at the same time as the pension account. For persons with compulsory health insurance of the Republic of Croatia who have acquired the status of insurance companies on the basis of pension rights. This proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions shall prescribe two rates for the calculation of contributions. One 1% on pensions with a monthly amount of up to an average net salary and another 3% on a peace-making basis whose monthly amount is higher than the average salary. This proposal also sets out the obligation for unemployed persons at 5% by the minimum monthly basis and for the calculation of contributions according to the Contribution Act. This will provide State budget burdens for 400 million kuna funds for the health care costs of unemployed persons. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions is another positive legislative step in the legal environment of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ club supports it fully and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24773	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS and HSU club, Mr. Representative Silavano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24774	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's going to be a pretty short discussion on my part, too. Mostly, of course, we recognise the legislators of this package of laws, and he proposed that the entire package and Minister Milinovic who finished his job to correct these initial positions, because the initial idea was to pay a contributing pension of over 2 thousand 600 kuna per 3% and over 5 thousand 200 per 5%. We are now faced with a proposal that says that the pension will be higher than the average salary level, which means that more than 5 thousand and 108 kuna will be burdened by a new contribution of 3% on pension. So this can be done if the ministry has taken a stand to burden the extra that something more, they can accept that principle. However, this principle conflicts with another principle, which is that these earned pensions are based on the payment of contributions over the years and among these pensions specifically these 20,000 942 pensions that I believe are certainly for all paid contributions over the years, I am not talking about other pensions, but for these I am sure, it is unacceptable for them to apply a new special contribution. I would also like to say that there are thousands in this group of 21,000 242 people, somewhere up to 5,000 people whose peace limits are limited. Which means, you know that the highest rate for paying off the highest pension is 3.8 of the average, which means they've earned a bigger pension. However, because of the legal provisions, they give the pension in solidarity to other colleagues and colleagues of pensioners, because the law said so. So their real pension was cut off. And these are the ones who have really the most internships and who have made the most of the contributions so far. In one presentation, Minister Milinovic said that people with a lot of internships, with a full internship, should have been rewarded. Well, I don't think it's correct to reward them with a 3% contribution. I don't think it's correct. No, we can set ourselves up like that but look, dear fellow Hebrang you know in Croatia were paying contributions to pensions when there were two-thirds of the workers and one-third of the pensioners and they were paid by the Pension Insurance Office for their pensioners. That principle has still been maintained by Slovenia today. She pays for her pensioners contributions to health care at a far higher rate but nobody touches the bankruptcy right of work and that's the pension someone has a solution to. We came, of course, when you go with the fissus principle to make contributions then there's no way you're wrong. In fact, contributions are taken 1% out of salary, 2% from zero to highest. Tax is something else. The tax burdens those who can, who have higher salaries and who can give more, those who have less social burdens pay more taxes and there is an untaxable basis. There's no such thing as a contribution. And now we've come to the point that the pensioner who today has 5 thousand 107 kuna in January will also receive 5 thousand 107 kuna and the pensioner who had 5 thousand 109 kuna he will receive 151 kuna less. Therefore, the application of contributions to the health system reduces his pension rights. So it's becoming a bad pension solution, it's no longer real. That solution is no longer good. So I'm asking you what legal effects we're doing with this contribution app. So, I'll be brief and shortened to the end, we've put amendments on this, I'm obliged to introduce you to letters that arrive daily where the world of Croatian pensioners, but also the world of Croatia that has been building this Croatian additionally punished writing, of course they recognize us for telling the truth and then they come to us. We've given this amendment. It is up to the government or the Ministry whether or not they will accept it, but without the adoption of the amendment, we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24775	Thank you. Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24776	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not vote in favour of this bill for the basic reason why we have a different concept of health contribution financing. What this law says. This law introduces additional health insurance obligations on pensioners and additionally provides funding for pensioners with lower pensions and for the unemployed in such a way that pensioners who make pensions in the following year will pay 3% of health contributions from their pensions and 60 thousand people are rounded up. We ask the question whether an additional health insurance payer of 60,000 will save the health insurance budget. We're even more questionable about the state budget, not because we don't think that's how it should be done. In fact, we think that the largest part of the source of health insurance must be from tax revenues and from the state budget, rather than because it is non-transparent, which we do not see in the budget that has been proposed to us anywhere, from which this part of the health contributions that should be settled from the state budget will be paid, and they relate to the unemployed and that 5% on the lowest basis for calculating contributions, or for pensioners at a rate of 1% to pensions below 5 thousand 108 kuna. Why do we think this isn't good? Because even now, only employees pay health contributions on different grounds. There is now one category or 60 thousand pensioners will also pay a health contribution. Those who have the least must pay the most in this country. Those who make the average salary cannot cover the minimum cost of a four-member family because trade unions have calculated that the union basket is moving between 6.5 thousand and 7.5 thousand kuna. So these 5 thousand and 108 kunas cannot even cover the minimum cost of the average Croatian family. And we are constantly asking a question and we will repeat it so long as it is not discussed in parliament and until certain decisions are made. Why do those who are the richest in this society pay and contribute to the least and our Constitution says that everyone must contribute to the coverage of state costs adequately to their economic strength. Why do those who raise enormous dividends in Croatia not pay any tax dollars? Why aren't they solidarity with the sick, with the socially endangered citizens of our country? We therefore doubt that this is possible to isolate from the budget in 2009 because we do not see this item as an item. And we suspect because the budget is experiencing rebalancing even before it's accepted. So today, at the government meeting, the government has adopted an amendment that reduces the expenditures of the state budget for health care by as much as a billion and 700 million kuna. What happens by Monday we don't know. And what will happen, for example, on January 2nd or later in 2009, because by the will of the parliamentary majority, we will empower the Government to redistribute all items in the budget when remembered, or when needed. So I already said in the introduction why we won't accept it. We have also offered certain solutions. We have offered solutions to gradually reduce the health contribution to wages, to cover them from tax revenues relating to capital revenues or property as they do in most countries of Europe and beyond Europe. This proposal has failed to discuss or discuss, and this may be a start in order to get more real resources and to get more certain resources into the state budget. So, we're going to pass another law under the cover of a little more money being poured into the health care budget, but that's questionable for us. We are also questioned because we remember from the past when the state budget for certain categories of pensioners was to be paid or the funds were to be transferred to the Mirovinski Fund. That did not seem to happen, and then there was injustice against the pensioners or there was a huge debt that we now have to repay to those who were then cut off. So these are all reasons why we won't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24777	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on Monday. I therefore propose that we move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 220. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm asking Minister Shuker to show up on the amendments. First, the Legislative Committee is referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24779	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24780	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment to Article 1(2), (3), (4), (5), of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24781	The government does not accept for the simple reason that the largest number of pensioners, one million and 137 thousand have paid contributions, so they are up to 5200, have paid contributions from the State budget and are about some 270 million kuna. While only 59 thousand 924 according to data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which has pensions of more than 5 thousand 200 kuna should pay a contribution to health insurance, which is a total of some 124, 125 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24782	Thank you. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU, therefore, amends to Article 1. etc., there are actually 5 amendments and more articles here. If you'd like to. Here you are, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24783	Mr. Minister, precisely because of what you said, we represent the completely opposite position that pensioners during the working century have been charged contributions, especially those who, with full-time internships and full-time contributions over the years, have earned high pensions and for them this practically double, or triple taxation. And by applying the contribution, the health contribution of 3% reduces their pension rights, which is inadmissible. We stand by our position and demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24784	Thank you. Who is for amendments to the HSLS, HSSU, to Article 1, in Article 2, in Articles 3, 4, and 5? Please count the votes. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The amendment wasn't accepted for 60, against 70. Thank you. We have an amendment to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24785	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24786	This one accepts. Thank you very much. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Please, let's get involved and vote. Please, let's vote. Score. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions was adopted by a majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 53 against, together with the amendments adopted. We move on to: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on special taxes on tobacco products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 225. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary Zdravko Maric. So State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24788	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a short reference to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products. We all know, therefore, that the Law on Special Tax on tobacco products regulates the payment of a specific tax on tobacco products produced and sold in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or is imported into that area. The main reasons why we are going to these proposed amendments are, above all, to comply with the provisions and directives of the European Union. Therefore, certain suggestions have come from the European Union. In some ways, we can also say that Croatia must partially comply with its legislation, i.e. taxation with a special tax on tobacco products, before the opening of the tax negotiations. It is specifically related to the structure of a special tax in the way that there is currently a special tax on cigarettes of Group A is 5 kuna 50 limes, on cigarettes of Group B 6 kuna 40, on cigarettes of Group C 10 kuna 90. So each of these amounts refers to a pack of 20 pieces of 120 millimetres. What we are actually achieving in accordance with the agreement and discussion with the representatives of the European Commission, since 1.1.2009, this difference in these amounts of specific excise duty or specific special tax has been reduced by 50% since 1.1.2010. It is also expected, in accordance with the directives of Croatia, to introduce the so-called so-called "cigaration tax system" into its excise system. the category of proportional specific tax to be paid in percentage of the retail price or... These proposed amendments and additions are also introduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be said, therefore, that in this way we will fulfil the commitments undertaken in accordance with the talks and agreements with the European Union, but in any case the continuation of further harmonisation will be the subject of this and the opening of Chapter 16 of the Taxes or further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24789	Thank you. Do the workbody reporters want to take it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24790	Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since taxes on cigarettes are very high, it is also a particularly interesting topic. Since 1992, the European Union has been working on the subject since the first directive and since 1993, the European Union has been trying to bring cigarette tax policy into line among the Member States of the Union since 1 January. We can determine that she didn't make it until today. And that through the three reports that are finished and the fourth that is being prepared, the European Union is very clear that there are differences and further in the calculation. Although they offered a combination of tax returns both per unit and per proportional or ad valorem system. The difference between the northern countries and the southern countries. Northern countries with greater interest in revenue in the budget have a stronger emphasis on the calculation per unit while the southern countries that have tobacco farming, which deal with tobacco farming, are working through a proportional system to highlight the protection of their domestic production. And of course through these I would say almost 15 years the European Union has at least managed to reduce the differences between the price of cigarettes except that these differences are now, I would say worsened by the entry of the new countries into EU membership. So we see how difficult this is, and of course with the European Union's request that a chapter on taxes be opened that must be adopted by their directives, the big problem has been put before Croatian tobacco production for the reasons that through the various three types of excise duty we have sought to protect tobacco production. It is evident that when you approach, you cannot negotiate much that we must accept the European Union's request for this Directive and on behalf of the SDP Club for the correctness of this proposal and we have no objection. I think there's something going to be done when you're two years old. But what should we point out? There are two big problems coming up. What's the first problem? The first problem is that although we have two years of harmonisation directly through the application of the European Union directive, our cigarettes are collected in relation to an environment which is not even a candidate for membership in the European Union. And at that moment, we're jeopardizing the budget. We're jeopardizing the budget because it's going to be an increasingly simple illegal cigarette trade. There is still around 8% of illegal traffic in Europe and up to 20% in the new members. With these changes in excise duties that are far higher than the cost of production, we will simply have problems that we will have an increase in the illegal turnover of cigarettes. And that will be the problem of budget items. In the preparation of the document, you could see that, in 2002, in a few years, we have a decline in excise income, which shows that the black cigarette market was simply large. Therefore, with our border still quite open, very very difficult for the budget and I would say the quality of revenue generated by these excise duties and VAT. Another problem that we also need to know is that we have ahead of us and that will put a certain problem before the government again, which is that at this point in Podravina we have over 2 and a half thousand cooperatives who grow tobacco at about 6000 ha with a total production of almost 14000 tonnes, which is basically almost 7% of production in Europe. So we're a significant tobacco producer. The total value is somewhere over 170 million kuna, which is when compared to cereals almost a quarter of the production of cereals or when compared to sugar beet then it is 50% sugar beet production, and when compared to wine production it is almost 60% wine production. Therefore, one very significant production. And unlike perhaps these three other agricultural productions, production that enables that producer to also make quality incomes, significant revenues. Regardless of whether they come from quality relationships with... or cigarette manufacturers or on the basis of incentives provided for in this culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is about to happen now is that, in some ways, cigarette manufacturers will also fight with the black market, it will be necessary to lower the prices of domestic cigarettes. And that's when about 20% of the price difference on domestic tobacco comes into question, because it's about so much the incentive of a cigarette manufacturer to produce domestically compared to the average price of tobacco in the world. Therefore, it will assume that cigarette manufacturers will try and continue to buy their domestic product, given that it is of a quality unlike some of the southern European countries, but it is evident that it will squeeze prices. And that just means that if we want to fight for these producers, if we want to keep this culture, the state will have to re-find additional funds to keep the standards achieved in tobacco production. So, for the budget, two problems. Smaller revenues from excise duties, and unfortunately they will probably have to compensate for the funds provided by cigarette manufacturers. And what I believe is why we will also accept and support this proposal is because the Ministry of Finance succeeded in failing to include five kunas for health care in this current part of the budget and about the tax, because simply those five kunas would fully destabilise the budget and based on excise income, because then enormous differences would mean more than 50% of the black market and certainly that at that point, I would say the negative approach of the cigarette manufacturer to tobacco producers. So I think it's simply a reasonable policy at this point that it's been able to get a break to see what can be done in two years that the black market doesn't disrupt both production and budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24791	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24792	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the opening part, we heard that under the existing law on specific taxes on tobacco products there are three categories of cigarettes with different amounts of specific taxes and that this is not in line with the European Union directives, with two Directives of '92, with one '95 directive. and by Directive 2002 amending and supplementing these previous Directives. Of course, the HDZ Club supports and welcomes the changes that introduce the gradual elimination of the various excise burdens of cigarette groups, i.e. the special tax on cigarettes, so that from 1.1 next year, the difference in tax burden between groups A, B, C cigarettes has been reduced by 50% and since 1.1.2010, it has been completely abolished and removed from this difference in excise duty and I welcome this harmonisation with European Union directives. Therefore, the HDZ Club will vote in favour of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24793	Thank you very much. No further reports. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on tobacco products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 225. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 95 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 5 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24796	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Just for a little while. Two rounds of negotiations were held, one in Zagreb, one in Damascus. In the course of the conclusion of this contract, as well as all other contracts, I shall apply the contract section of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. This agreement has made it easier to tax all types of income, as well as to improve the conditions for increasing the mutual exchange of goods and services, and to increase the degree of overall economic activity of both the states that signed this contract. There's so much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24797	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on Monday. Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Syrian Arab Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 221. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Syrian Arab Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 103 votes to one abstention and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24800	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, by proposing this law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, we wanted to transpose the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into Croatian legislation. This also includes the implementation of the obligations imposed by those Directives. It is precisely the purpose of this law to achieve the objective of sustainable energy development by reducing the negative environmental impact of the energy sector by improving energy security, meeting the needs of energy consumers and meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the area of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This law regulates the area of energy efficiency in direct consumption and the adoption of programmes and plans to improve energy efficiency and implement them. Furthermore, powers and responsibilities shall be laid down for the determination and implementation of the energy efficiency policy. Powers and responsibilities for the regulation and implementation of energy efficiency measures shall also be determined, in particular on the activity of energy services and energy audits. Furthermore, it obliges the public sector of energy operators and large consumers and legal consumers to apply energy efficiency measures. Under this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a programme of energy efficiency of the Republic of Croatia for a 10-year period and national energy efficiency action plans for a three-year period. Since the current institutional capacities are not sufficient for the implementation of all measures, the law provides for the energy efficiency policy to establish the support of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to carry out activities in the field of fostering rational energy management and energy efficiency. With regard to energy management, the law lays down the mandatory public sector and large consumers, as well as the contractual debtor is the beneficiary of the fund's funds. Here, it would be precisely by adopting these laws to regulate all requirements for improving energy efficiency both at national, regional and local level. I must also point out that we accept all amendments to the Committee on Legislatives that they had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24801	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one answered. I'm closing the hearing. We'll decide on Monday. Final proposal of the Act on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. number 222. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representatives accepted these amendments in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 104 votes for and 2 abstentions along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24804	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we go again, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market, the basic reason for the adoption of this law, is precisely the need to comply with the acquis of the European Union and the unsatisfactory achievement of the degree of liberalisation and openness of the energy market. The adoption of this law, i.e. the Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act, would achieve the following objectives and would be the objectives of defining, the law would define terms in the gas sector, identify the overall content of energy activities in the gas and gas market participants, introduce balance groups and balance sheet leaders as basic entities in the planning of the gas needs of the balance sheet group members, allowing better planning for the surrender and takeover of gas and from the transport system on a daily basis for all members of the balance sheet group. It also organises gas markets in terms of energy insurance, balancing and energy trading and sanctions participants in the gas market in the event of non-compliance with this law. I must also say that on behalf of the Government, we accept the amendments of the Committee on Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24805	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the club. SDP, Mr. Agent Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24806	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So it's too late and we got it now, we got a reason why we need to pass this law, actually amend and supplement the gas market law by emergency procedure, and I apologize, Secretary of State, right? Yeah. You didn't tell the truth. ... for the sake of European harmonisation with European legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it stands, and then you tell us why we're passing this law even though it's too late, but it wouldn't be good for you to tell us that it's because of agreeing to the legislation of the European Union since we passed this law in 2007, so we're trying to fix this law which, I repeat, has already been adopted and which is more or less okay now. First of all, I don't know why we're bringing him in on an emergency procedure because the urgent procedure in our Rules of Procedure is that laws are passed that prevent them, remove major disturbances in the economy. There is no major or minor disturbance in the economy if this law is passed or not passed, so there is really no reason for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure, especially when it is said in the explanation that the issues to be adopted, which are governed by this law, are to achieve the following objectives. First of all, the expressions of the overall content of the inclusive energy activity in the gas sector and of the participants in the gas market would be defined, and this translates to you that by now we probably did not know that the minister is responsible for energy, that the ministry is the central authority of the state administration responsible for energy and so on. I don't think it's appropriate to pass laws like that by an emergency procedure. Here, that's what I'd like to say. Second, you've introduced one newspaper that's ok. and this is the introduction of a balance sheet group and a balance sheet manager as a basic entity in planning the need for... members of the balance sheet group to enable the planning, surrender and download of gas in/and from the transport system on a daily basis for all members of the balance sheet group. As we adopted the Gas Market Act in 2007, Article 76 clearly sets out what and what and when sublegal acts must be adopted, it is obvious that only in this Article 76, which has a series of regulations to be adopted, because this law, by supplementing the law, requires a legal framework to adopt those rules which have not been adopted by this law, I do not know why they have not been adopted. Only two regulations have been passed, and this seems to me to be the first two relating to the organisation of the natural gas market, even those two. And now, according to this new one, we need a regulation on the organisation of the natural gas market, general conditions for natural gas supply, network rules of the distribution system, changes in the existing... rules, rules on compensation, etc. etc. [[You don't understand.]] By adopting these regulations, all the sublegal acts of this which you have said are actually introduced by new entities like I said it is a market balance group such as a market operator and some newspapers, and these are rigorous conditions of sale where it is actually sanctioned if the operator does not predict or overstep by consumption or failure in consumption will have to pay incredibly large penalties. I don't think it's appropriate for the market we're having today and it's not good anyway. Of course, I finally read it that way, and you may deny me, this market operator as a new gas market operator someone needs and pays it, and as it is known from previous experience where the Croatian regulatory agency is charging its services with 0.05% of the total income, and let's just say, the question is how much will the final price of gas be for end-users and whether it is actually implementing the right energy strategy. And when I read it, at least that's how I get the impression that these changes and additions are worth it and would be worth a highly organised market filled with consumers and a high degree of industrialization, and now I wonder if in Croatia we need such an excessive law that needs 3.5 billion cubic meters per year, and let's say one Hungary 12, Italy over 100 and whether we need such a massive system and such regulation. Because I said we'll pay extra for this one I won't call the agency, but the market operator. I said what "hera" meant, so let's say she left with less than a dozen people, and today there's more than 40 of them. There is, of course, income, good income, so let's say Janaf bought that building for 40 million kuna, and now I wonder when it's going to come from the price of gas, because someone has to pay that operator, when they're going to buy a new building for 40 million kuna, so I'm saying that we didn't need to pass this kind of an emergency procedure. And also why we bring it in quick. I think that in 2007 when we passed this law that our Croatian delegation that negotiated or negotiated in Brussels was professional or was forced to write or copy from Europe in a hasty manner, which is seen in terms of the terminology that was badly translated and to the expert audience in the Republic of Croatia quite incomprehensible. And from that, of course... so changes are now being made, and it is very likely that these legal considerations and rules will be adopted in the same way. [[You don't understand.]] I don't think it's a good idea that in some way in this debate over these changes that I would say both technical and legal nature and not essential, no one has been consulted except Plinocro and Econerg as consultants, no one has participated in those entities dealing with the gas market in the making of the proposal, let alone any debate has been organised, so it should be concluded that this is a practice that should be avoided, because I guess these people should be talked about, too, and they should say their opinions about a law like this which is the way it is. Of course, I don't know why that is, but here it is clear that it wants to discuss or discuss the changes, because if it were, it was, and it was, willful, it would be done with market participants, which is transporters, distributors, suppliers as well as with experts from the Croatian expert gas association in a clear and clear way, and today this proposal would also have support for those to whom the SDP club will be concerned. In one such way where the law is passed by an emergency procedure for which no conditions have been met under the Rules of Procedure, where the rules which were then to regulate this gas market, the SDP Club will not support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24807	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj, on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24808	Dear President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief because objectively for this set of topics that we have, we admit, we have to admit we all couldn't prepare because this rhythm simply can't be followed by quality work, but here's just a few of those notes of general nature on this subject. The declared gas market liberalisation process in several years has led to the emergence of a variety of participants in the gas market. In addition to the gas manufacturer at the beginning and the tariff buyer, the transport system operator, the distribution system operator, gas storage system operator, the natural gas terminal operator, the gas supplier, the gas indirect on the gas market, the gas market representative and the privileged buyer were in line. These amendments to the Gas Market Act increase the company by a balance group, gas market operator and gas trader. A total of 13 participants in the gas supply process we experienced yesterday in the Ina scheme, our communalist, we as buyers. I don't know if anyone but those who are professionally and deep in the gas business can distinguish all these entities and list the names of companies or institutions that cover each area of action. But that's why all of us who are far from counting them, let alone detect them, describe or know enough about them and whether or not they're doing something or whether they're actually present or not, we're quite certain that all of these regimens of participants in the process won't bring us cheaper gas. However, those two last poor customers, the privileged buyer and the tariff buyer, will have to calm the other 11 mediators in the journey of gas from the country to our gas meter on the house or company. None of them are gonna do their job bad. Is that how it's supposed to be? Of course not. But we're masters in two extremes. Either we don't regulate the problem at all, or we reregulated it like this, so nobody knows who's drinking at all, but we know who's paying, end-user, citizen or entrepreneur. So it's known who's going to pay for this charming company of gas companies, and there's not much to know, starting with what they're going to do with us or our customers, how much it's going to cost together, whether we're going to have gas or not in the middle of winter, whether petrochemicals are going to have reductions or whether tomorrow the price is going to be three, four or five kuna per cubic metre of gas, which we've been facing for a long time and moving as far as we hear from the new year with at least 20%. Because as the import price of gas is already higher than the one we pay and the INA is therefore on its knees, and in the last few years each year, it is neatly finished with an average billion kuna profits. No one's going to find out how much this is really the price of domestic gas we have for over 60% of our consumption. Some independent gas experts say that even 10 times less than the price paid by Zagreb's 2 kunas and 8 limes per cubic metre of gas. No one will find out what the price of the gas we sell to the Italians from the northern Adriatic. Again, some independent gas experts say 5 times less than this Zagreb price for 2 kunas and 8 limes per cubic metre. No one's gonna find out who's to blame for not having enough storage capacity and... to finally have one winter enough, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24809	Thank you. And finally, State Secretary Mr Miljenko Pavlakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24810	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a quick answer to the esteemed MPs why an emergency procedure. We believe that this is not about any unhappiness, but precisely these amendments and additions to the gas market law go for the reason that we have defined the model of the market that we are in law and also the sublegal acts that need to be harmonised with the regulations. At the time of the adoption of the law itself in the final phase, the regulation of the 17,75 European Union entered into force, so we should normally go to these amendments and amendments to the law, given that this regulation is currently speaking in the security of gas supply and its main emphasis is this particular segment. As regards the penalties themselves, the sublegal act will be regulated to postpone the application of two years so that these penalties are not in effect immediately, but rather one transitional period until the application. In addition, as regards operators themselves, it is the European Union's 55-2005 directive on market liberalisation that speaks about operators who need to exist. So it's not the whim of our ministry that these operators need to exist, it's exactly the European Union directive we're harmonising with. And as for the gas price burden itself, these operators will literally have an impact on the gas price itself, because there is basically an electric power operator already now, and this burden is not something that is quite measurable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24811	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on Monday. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 223. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and they are an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the gas market law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 28 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances to Internal Waterways (ADN) was adopted on 26 May 2000 at a diplomatic conference held in Geneva called by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and the Central Committee for Navigation. The Republic of Croatia has signed the agreement since 14 June 2000. The agreement came into force on 29 February 2008 and by 1 June this year Austria, Bulgaria, France, Germany, Hungary, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and the Russian Federation became party to the agreement. What matters is the purpose of this agreement. Ensure a high level of safety of the international transport of dangerous substances by inland waterways between parties to the agreement by applying uniform standards and rules, contribute to effective and environmental protection by preventing pollution arising from accidents or accidents in the transport of dangerous substances and facilitating the operation of such transport and promoting international trade in chemicals. From the date of adoption of the agreement at the mentioned diplomatic conference until the entry into force of the agreement on 29 February 2008, these rules, mentioned in the agreement itself, are a regular update by the Joint Committee of Experts established by a special resolution adopted at that conference. The updated and consolidated text of the rules is an integral part of the ADN agreement proposed by the law in question to confirm what the Republic of Croatia and formally demonstrates its consent to be bound by a signed agreement which thus becomes part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Confirmation of the agreement is important in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union as it is a European agreement with the mandatory application of uniform standards and rules in the transport of dangerous goods on the European network of inland waterways. Following all this exposure, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt this law in the text as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24815	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24816	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the bold text of the bill, because it involves the Republic of Croatia in contributing to the European Agreement on International Transport of Dangerous Things, but as we have heard from the State Secretary in the opening statement, with the aim of building a high level of safety in carrying out transport, inland waterways in the relations of parties to the agreement. Here's what we're going to do, and we're going to list a few reasons why we support this text of the law. Croatia is harmonising its foreign policy and transport policy with the views and actions of the European Union and other international partners. This Agreement will contribute effectively to the protection of the environment by preventing any pollution resulting from accidents or incidents during the transport of inland waterways and thus facilitate transport and promotion of international trade in chemicals. The text of the law and agreement in question has been written without imposing any interest and will by some of the parties, and we consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between the parties to the agreement on which certain interests will be developed and coordinated. Following this, we hope to facilitate the work of our competent institutions with international partners, in particular regarding dangerous substances, mode of transport, loading and landing and handling of dangerous substances, type and method of use of packaging, provisions on ship lending, equipment activities and documentation, rules for the construction of ships carrying dangerous substances and other issues and obligations listed in the agreement. Since the objective of the agreement is to establish uniform standards and rules, all to ensure a high level of security in carrying out international transport of dangerous goods, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support the proposed law and the validation of this Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24817	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on Monday. Final proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances by Inland Waterways ADN, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 236. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances in the Inland Waterways of the ADN. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 103 votes for and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24820	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a short reference to the draft law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act. It is precisely this adoption of the law that it is going to define the way in which electricity trade and electricity supply are carried out in a very transparent way. We are procedurally in line with the adoption of sub-legislative rules under the competence of transmission system operators with Directives and regulations of the European Community and of the European Commission, and what is most important is that, in the change itself and supplementing it, electricity customers who are not satisfied with the work of transmission system operators and distribution system operators, and related to access and access conditions of the network, will be able to provide faster, more effectively, one legal protection established by law itself. It shall also establish the competence and commitment for the adoption of the rules and the allocation and use of cross-border capacities as well as the determination of the supply of tariff customers and the clear definition of their role. It also accurately defines the status of a privileged buyer, a small buyer and a tariff buyer, and in particular their position in the legal transitional period itself. It is also more clear how electricity prices are determined for suppliers of tariffs and their period of application with the introduction of a public competition for the purchase of electricity for the supplier of tariffs. This also respects the law on public procurement. In this amendment and the addition of this law, we accept amendments to the legislative committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-12-0.u24821	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We have an individual discussion, Mr. Dragutin Lesar, which he doesn't have. I'm closing the debate because there are no more reports. We'll decide on Monday. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 227. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted these amendments. In accordance with Article 166, they are part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 78 votes to, 5 abstentions, 23 against the amendments adopted.
