ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6343	... on areas and courts' seats. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] According to the current Law on Areas and Courts in the Republic of Croatia, there are 115 municipal courts of which 107 operate and for 8 courts, the justice minister has not decided that the conditions for starting work have been met. The law also established 21 county courts and 13 commercial courts. This large number of municipal courts and their existing network have proved ineffective and of course it is not economical. The analyses carried out under the CARDS project in 2002 supported the reforms of the Croatian judiciary in cooperation with the Finnish twinning partner and the CARDS project in 2003 continued to support the reforms of the Croatian judiciary in cooperation with the Austrian partner showed that the Republic of Croatia is among one of the European states with the highest number of courts, the highest number of judges and administrative staff but on the other hand with the highest number of judicial backlogs. The analysis carried out also showed that the causes of ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary can be found right in the current structure of the courts. On the one hand, while we have courts in large cities such as Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Sibenik, Zadar, Osijek with a large inflow of cases, on the other hand we have a lot of courts with a small inflow of cases, a large number of judges in relation to the inflow of cases, and this is precisely that imbalance in the burden of judges on court cases, the reason is that despite a large number of judges and a large number of courts, we are unfortunately behind in solving the case. This has therefore proved the necessary need for a network of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia to be rationalised. The criteria that have been taken into account for the merger of municipal courts have been adopted during one calendar year and the number of judges required according to framework criteria means for at least five judges, then the number of inhabitants, away from the nearest court circus of 50 kilometers, with exceptions such as the geographical specificities of the courts on the islands. In addition, take into account additional criteria as a total number of resolved and pending cases in court, the number of cases solved by a particular judge, the assessment of the inflow of cases, the assessment of the resolution of old cases, the ratio of the number of judges and other court employees to the inflow of cases and the impact on the urgency of the court. The objectives expected to streamline the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia are effective, modern and rational judiciary, more equal burden on judges and court staff with cases, faster resolution of lagging cases, as well as decision-making within a reasonable period of time. Also, a better organisation of work, the possibility of specialising judges, greater flexibility in the work of judges and court staff and judicial management and uniform court practice. After the merger of the courts at their headquarters and during the year of retirement of the court staff, a greater economicity of the system is expected. According to the bill, the proposal is to bring the courts together as mentioned here, I will not repeat them all because a lot has already been made public. The rationalisation of the network of courts is, of course, a multi-year process and everywhere in the world where it has been done, it has taken a certain number of years. We are scheduled to be implemented by 31 December 2019 and depending on the dynamics of ensuring the work space and technical equipment of the courts in their seats. On this plan and the physical merger program we are working very hard and in the first two years we will be able to connect a significant number of courts. The entry into force of this law would be 65 municipal courts, so that courts would continue to work until they are joined in the seat of the courts as departments of the court to which they are joined, with a better ability to manage such courts, because it would already be one of the presidents of the court, one joint office, one accounting office, and there would already be an opportunity to specialize judges in certain types of cases. This is an unmistakably big project, this is a huge over-realing within a network of municipal courts, but most importantly, what we think is that one better organization is going to assign this burden to a different and much more high-quality trial because what we have today in large cities of courts that are overloaded by the inflow of cases, in smaller cities we have courts that live much more comfortable where judges simply have time if there are 150, 200 litigation cases in one city, of course, that they can meet their norm. However, if it is between 700 and 800 in Zagreb, it is difficult to meet that standard. It is with this new network of courts that we will achieve that we will have a better and more even burden on these judges and, of course, we will allow the judges to specialize. Specialization is very important because today in the flood of these new regulations judge and disturb property and compensation damage, and criminal and status matters it is very difficult today. Specialization will have judges who will mean to judge only in certain segments of law and that means we will also have procedures that will be conducted faster, we will also have better judgments that will not be brought to an end in a second-degree court, we will also have a more uniform case-law, and that is all of those goals that are actually in the reform of the judiciary, which we stand for. I'm just saying, this is a really big project. We visited all of Croatia, only talked to the presidents of the courts, with the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, we also respected suggestions, we respected proposals and we have done a lot of things in this project and changed our proposals. Excuse me, there's been an error here, actually, in the text. In the light of the law, you can see that our intention is to bring the Đurđevac Municipal Court to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, but in the text of the law, it is as if the court survives. It's our intention to bring him together and apologize. We'll fix it for another reading anyway. Thank you very much. Here, we're expecting your suggestions, because really, this is one big project and maybe, really, we all come from certain environments, we all see a certain argument, and we hope that after this debate in this House we might see some new details and then prepare ourselves for another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6344	Thank you very much. Do the committees want it? Reporters, yes. On behalf of the Justice Committee, President, Mr Ivo Grbic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6345	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the third session held on 26 March 2008, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law on the areas and seats of the courts submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 19 March 2008. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The opening representative pointed out that this proposal implemented the merger of courts, since the 107 municipal courts so far, established a total of 65 municipal courts and determined their area and headquarters. In the debate, the committee members unanimously supported the proposal for a law on areas and courts' seats. Article 2 is proposed. A proposal by the Municipal Court in Djurdjevac to join the Municipal Court in Koprivnica. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: 1. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate in the draft law will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6346	Would the representatives of the other committees like to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6347	Dear President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is among the European states with the highest number of courts, judges and administrative staff in courts and the largest number of pending court cases. The Croatian network of courts consists of 217 first-degree courts, of which 110 misdemeanor courts, 107 municipal courts and 13 commercial courts, there are 21 more county courts, the High Criminal Court, the High Court of Commerce, the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court. So we have courts, we have judges, we have administrators, they say a lot of judges, courts and administrators, and we're slow and inefficient. As a rule, on average, of course, although there are many honorable, desirable exceptions, especially in local courts that include my 6 from Krapina-Zagorian County that are efficient, which have no lags. But there are too many who do not work well and who have created a picture of slowness and inefficiency. What's the problem? How to resolve the Croatian judiciary crisis recorded in a slow and inefficient settlement of court cases. We have no doubt that we have quality personnel, judges and administrators. They certainly don't have optimal, spatial and technical conditions for work, but we believe we have good enough to keep it from being the brakes of their dedicated work. It's obviously the wrong system, an organization that didn't give answers to the diseases of the judicial system. We obviously know this, all of us, the government and the opposition and the public who chose us and the employees of the judiciary. We've known that for too long and too long. We have a diagnosis, but we haven't treated the disease, so it's already chronic. And we know that chronic illness requires stronger, more expensive, more painful therapy. It is not unfortunately the first, and we do not believe even the last time we start to react until the water reaches the throat, only when we have begun to pass laws with the label P.Z.E., therefore, the laws of adaptation to the European Union. Although we will not hear from the Head of the Ministry of Justice, we will not read on their website that we are changing something because of the European Union's demands. Their interpretation is that we do it for ourselves. I quote: "That Croatian citizens have an effective and effective judiciary at their disposal to strengthen legal certainty that directly affects the economic, social and labour security of citizens.". But let's let this one or that one explain why we reform the judiciary. It's moving, let's be glad it's finally moving. For us in the Croatian People's Party, the question is whether we've gone well, whether we've found medicines for the diseases of the judicial system, if we hit the srid, or if we miss, then, like Alca in Sinj, there will be nothing but loud sound, tumbling and dusting. And many, many more dissatisfied and bitter citizens who want only cheap, quick and effective justice, angry with the judiciary, the government, and all of us, no matter how much more or less we are wet in it. The judicial reform process is obviously designed in the synergy of domestic and external minds, we don't know what ratios, we don't even know all the moves that will be drawn but some of us do. But these moves, the realisation of the actions of the Justice and European partners' working group, are primarily a change, a way, the election of the president of the courts, free legal assistance, the abolition of the courts will not solve the crisis of the Croatian judiciary. If the judges, not the justice ministers, are going to appoint the presidents of the courts, it is no guarantee that people who will be selected will be removed from the judicial organisation and will change the organisation of the work so as to result in an up-to-date settlement of the case. Free legal aid will again not lead to a quick and quality settlement of the case. By abolishing courts, or through mutual attachments, no items will disappear that need to be resolved. Today we have a proposal here to implement one of these measures, to abolish part of the courts, 40% of the local courts in the country, a measure advocated by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that says that rationalisation must be carried out and particularly stresses that no judge or official will be left without a job in the implementation of this measure. The aim of the reform and the impact of rationalisation must be an effective court. The abolition of courts will result in us not having two inefficient courts but one inefficient court, as it will remain the court offices with a large number of pending files. Only administrators from one building will transfer them to another judge. Whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has well avoided the good and bad side of the abolition of 40% of local courts. Fellow MPs, do you see in these materials on our tables an analysis of the impact of the abolishing of the courts. We can't see and it's disrespecting this High House, all of us, regardless of being in the middle of the left or right. It particularly irritates us who came to the Parliament from businesses, from production, from markets which life experience and business experience did not teach us to bring radical cuts without careful, detailed, comprehensive analysis. Why are we changing something? How much does it cost to change? What are the positive effects of change? And everything so as not to have the opposite effect of killing a cow for a kilo of meat. According to us from the Croatian People's Party, the good side of abolishing part of local courts is, for example, a greater possibility of specialising judges, better economics of the system, a greater possibility of progressing personnel, the financial benefit of the state from the possible sale of buildings of abolished courts. It's hard to add anything else. And the poor need for longer adjustment of judicial staff from the abolished courts to the new environment is, in accordance with this reduced working efficiency, the need to upgrade new spaces and equipment necessary for the operation of personnel from the abolished courts. It is possible that it will cost a lot more than it will benefit from the possible sale of buildings of abolished courts. No one here is saying what will happen to public notebooks in places where the court is lifted. I can hardly make money after that for bread. He'll put the key in the lock. By moving the court to another place, the pending cases will not be resolved. I repeat, he'll just walk away. And it is extremely bad consequences for citizens for whom there are courts of justice will be even more inaccessible than now. We're removing places of justice that they've had for over 150 years. For example, the history of the court from my Lower Stubica in Zagorje, which, according to the government's proposal, should be lifted dating from 1854. We drive them to a house that will be judged by justice, traveling a few tens of miles more than now. And watch out, some of those places that are about to join the justice reform are not even connected to the public transport system. The U.S. Department didn't ask about that. You can imagine what they'd say if they'd been asked. And we haven't asked their representatives local government, and not many times so far would they have anything to say on the subject. Could the government argue that the abolition of 40% of local courts, bringing to a worse position physically and mentally and in increased costs over a million inhabitants of our country will result in a faster and more efficient sharing of justice. We of the Croatian People's Party Club think that it is not, that it is a cosmetic measure that should give an illusion of action that will result in a great dissatisfaction with citizens and will not contribute significantly to a faster and more efficient judiciary. Instead of eliminating what the citizens have become accustomed to and what is mostly and well-functioning, we would like to see other measures in the government's proposals in solving the biggest pains of the Croatian judiciary of unsolved cases and the inability to achieve judicial protection within a reasonable time. What are these measures I will present in an individual part of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6348	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6349	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. When an announcement arrived at the end of the year that negotiations on this chapter on justice, corruption, human rights were delayed, the government kept it a snake's foot. But then it was necessary to do something to prove that something serious was meant to be done. Here, now for this reason, we have before us the proposal for a law on areas and courts' seats as something to figure out as a reformer's movement and a couple of exellance procedures. But is that really what it is? In order to perhaps get a better understanding of what this is all about, let us remind ourselves of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts of Faraway 1994. At that time, there was a principle, the same power, but it changed in these 14 years absolutely its turn by 180 degrees. So in 1994, it was almost worth the principle under each tree one court. At that time, it appeared pompously as something that the judiciary would be ours, how the judicial authorities would be available to our citizens. It is now said in the light of this law that a court here or there is ten, fifty, one hundred miles away from those to whom it is to serve is of no importance at all. But there is something else strange about that law that we have until today. In 1994, courts were founded without law alone. There was no assumption that the court was established there not in 5, 10, 15 but at any time. It wasn't about buildings, people who should be working there. For we are careful, these are the years when, when the judiciary is left without its judicial staff, and it is founded on dozens and dozens of new courts. Then you see you have one, and with this bill your courts will be abolished. But you see, they're supposed to be doing one last thing by 1919 for another, like 12 or 19. Now we have an absurd situation and is it possible to build an absurd reform of the judiciary? Then we had a situation that the law founded courts, but they didn't work, and they never worked because it wasn't, because it was fiction, abstraction, and now it's going to be abolished by this law, but it's going to continue to work. Don't you think that's really absurd? And so seriously, then we don't act. Neither can we figure like that with our citizens, nor with those who observe us and whom we want to give them this law as a strong reform procedure. There is something else that happened at the time and has contributed to the devastation of the judiciary and to the destruction of the reputation of the judiciary as a whole. Namely, the presidents of the courts were appointed, those fictitious courts that never functioned. And they've been getting paid for years. These people can say that it was very embarrassing to walk the streets of that small town or town. Now that same government says we have a lot of judges, we have a lot of courts. And until 2000, and '97. when the crisis in the judiciary was indeed at its peak, but there was no debate at all. In the courts, over 50% of the judicial staff disappeared. So I can say that I am really proud of the coalition authority that founded 12 new judicial bodies. And fortunately none of these are abolished, for they were indeed necessary. And over 500, 600 judicial officials were employed who each had their own norm and were burdened with their own norm. Where would we be if we hadn't done it? These were some basic assumptions, and, of course, the results cannot be measured on their own. So after this absurdity because we really are the country that founded non-working courts, now we're going to end them, and they're going to continue to work, there's a further question in this situation where, where the government doesn't talk about anything. The government doesn't say anything. He just finds out we have a lot of courts and a lot of judges. So, as parrots, we repeat what they told us in Europe. And that's right. But why do we have the most objects? That's the question. It's a source at all so we can act reformically. Why are we a country of four and a half million inhabitants whose family each has one case in court now? This, unfortunately, shows that many things in the state are not right, and the judiciary is not meant to be like that, as the third branch of the government that solves social relations, but which the ultim has been at war with the legal order and that solves individual cases. And today it happens to us that smaller trucks are being sued in a court of law because the state has failed to comply with a certain obligation or from one relationship, which has arisen, which has to be resolved in a different way, that such similar lawsuits, hundreds of them are known to come, and several hundred before courts. That means something's not normal. And unless the inflow of cases is contained in the courts has nothing to do with reform, because this kind of inflow of the case is neither a much more well-ordered judiciary nor a single country can absorb. But that's a little bit of a talk. Many laws have been passed since 2000, 2003, 2004. Some are later and abolished, and they would serve exactly this major problem that they cannot, so all these measures that would be taken in that sense are unpopular, because their effect cannot be seen in a year, two, three, only after a few years. But that's what we have to insist on, and I think about these things we should take a common position on. It would be good to agree precisely because there is a new law, the Law on the Prosecution, which is why these express norms are not respected, why hearings, why the debates don't end in two, three hearings as it's been smuggled there? What's the problem? Let's see the report of the courts and those involved in the procedure, what's that about? So why do some of the standards that are good don't apply, which are currently in line with these reform procedures? Much better than moving one court to another here, moving those plates like a colleague here spoke for the CNS and saying if that's what he said. And it remains extremely unclear what will happen at this point. Will the panel be replaced in that court, will the judges indeed and the courts, or will the staff, be moved, moved? Where's that space? Is there even one court that will connect, which will absorb several of these smaller courts, which has extra space, which has one extra room? There isn't. 'Cause those dishes are loaded. And they still have judges coming and staff coming. So where will they work? Those assumptions weren't made. Like they weren't created in '94. the years you started the courts with paper. It's just a feather move. Here are the basic problems to discuss. And so when and at the moment when we have so many cases, when we have passed by consensus law where less-loaded courts or who are up-to-date can therefore take over regardless of local jurisdiction and those cases. And for a long time we've boasted here a team like that is a good help wheel in this situation. Now it's absolutely denied. But with these other reform measures, it was one strong measure that should have been used further. And how much the government was reporting, and from the resolution ministry, they kept stressing that one measure was very, very beneficial. And that people are really happy with it, no matter what they travel to another court, if that's where they're going to solve their problem. So we have an absurd situation. We've got a lot of cases, and we're cutting the dishes. Please, it's incomprehensible. It's like saying we have a lot of patients, we're gonna shut down hospitals. Very, very similar. Is this going to end the case, ask the question? No items will be lifted. That is what the presidents of these smaller courts who are here, whose government has assigned these courts the key to locking them up. And people ask themselves a question, we have fulfilled the norm. It's not like we worked under the norm. We had an inflow of objects. Not all of them, but some of them are. And many of those who... So that's how we get punished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're all, mostly, up-to-date courts. And now we're going to make these up-to-date judges and up-to-date courts unscheduled because all of those courts that get together are generally unscheduled because they're big. But besides, there's no clear concept of government. Because while last year, the pre-conversation of the court has been discussed, at the same time a court in Tisno was established. At the same time, to be now here again is scheduled for that court to be abolished, to disappear. And also let's not forget the famous court in Novalja, in 99, there was the end of the '90s, we had the stage, there was furniture, there was the tape, the court opened up, and then it locked up and there was never one, no one ever entered that court again. So when you talk about this, there's a lot of performances, you really need to see what has to be done here, but this comes almost at the end of the ballad. So we are already in such a process that the reform is at an end. And what that means is that the judiciary has mostly become to one reasonable measure effectively, quickly, and then there's really a reason for us all to see and stop which court really doesn't make any sense to move on. But in this kind of problem as a major measure, it's just going to produce a whole series of other problems, and that's more than it is, we've only got this bill, and where these other laws that need to be amended. What about the Law on Public Notes, which was also discussed by a colleague, who then referred to the number of such places and so on, because the reference point is the municipal court. That wasn't at all discussed because you didn't even think of it. Don't let it happen, a year ago, two days ago, maybe a little more, all his mouth was celebrated so-called. The tweeting program, the Finnish tweeting program, please combine even pears and apples, municipal and criminal courts and this project, of course, was only a matter of time and luck that it happened as soon as possible, how infamously failed. This reform, what is predicted if something is to be saved, the question is at all what and how much, will be saved primarily on the citizens' account. Citizens will again bear the burden of this reform. And that's how it is, here's an example of the Public Court in Pag that's supposed to be abolished, and it's never filled with an adequate number of judges, given the number of inflows of cases, so it's said there's not enough judges, and it's not filled, and it's supposed to be based on the inflow of the case. And the kind of cases that are being debated in that particular court is precisely property law, so it's usually a matter of eyewitnesses. So now all citizens will go to Zadar and then the entire team along with the geometer and other warlocks and witnesses will travel back to Pag. Well, that's a huge expense. Thus, all that is sought with free legal assistance will be assisted in this way by our citizens. Not to mention all these smaller courts where they weigh just the elderly population, bad relationships between these small places because people usually travel their own cars. This older population doesn't have cars or if it has more is incapable of driving. And that's usually an older population than 60, over 20, 30% and above. Moreover, it should not be disturbed with the mind that courts are not only the third branch of government, they are in every country, and in our own country with a long legal tradition and part of our legal culture, culture in general. And you can't finger a feather so easily say some courts that have 200 and more years each, say, in Drnis and Otočec, where I ask you to enrol and the first legal action written down in 1746 to be abolished under one pen stroke. No country does that. And please think carefully about it, this is not yet the time for this, and in any case the request is still a thorough debate and therefore here, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, this SDP bill will not support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6350	Thank you very much. I've already thanked you a few times, so. I just can't help but thank you. It's the club's turn, and we've got two corrections. I'm sorry, we have two corrections. First Kronoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6351	Well, here's an incorrect quote from a colleague who says she's not, something's not normal probably in the state because hundreds of people are also pressing charges and so on. All I'm saying is that this is the normal consequence of the functioning of the former coalition government that didn't meet the contracts, so hundreds of thousands of people filed a lawsuit at the same time, increased the number of complaints, the number of cases that we can be grateful to the coalition government, because the new government will pay more than a billion kunas of any damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6352	Thank you. We have another correction. Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, a distinguished colleague has repeatedly incorrectly said that this is about abolishing the courts. It is not about the abolition of courts but about the addition of courts of the same kind, which is a very important difference in terms and future functioning of the judiciary in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6354	Thank you. It is up to Mr. Boro Grubisic, the HDSSB club he does not have, so the club loses the right to discuss this item on the agenda. Then on behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6355	Mr. President, Mr. Charming Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with what's written in the light of this proposal. It says: This number of courts and their existing network proved ineffective and overpriced, and then a little behind it writes The Justice Reform Strategy depends on the future network of courts. I think it should be the other way around that the future network of courts depends on the Justice Reform Strategy and therefore, regardless of what effects this law will achieve, here it seems to me that the thing is a little bit set the other way around. We're talking about a bill of this law and speaking at all about this matter I don't think we should be distracted by the thought of talking about two things. First about the number and seats of the courts, which is today formally on the agenda, but at the same time. And I would say first of all we need to talk about judicial reform in the Republic of Croatia as a context, as the widest context. And I advocate what I said at the beginning, as a strategy, about judicial reform, as a rule, as a principle that will give rise to the number of courts' seats that we are talking about today and what is formally on the agenda today. These two things must not be seen separately. I note this because it seems to me that this proposal and its explanation do not indicate that these two things are and must be inextricably linked. Now, the third thing I want to point out here. The total reform of the judiciary involves several important things that we have mentioned here several times or on several occasions. I think that's clear and that we're on board. The first is the availability of justice, the second is a faster solution to the case, the third is a fairer trial, the fourth is to strengthen the authority of the profession and use a harsh term that may not be good at removing people without integrity from the system. And then, or according to that, he doesn't even have to do this in this order and rationalize the network of courts. So I'm going to say, regardless of what I think the rationalisation of the network of courts should do, I have an impression, and I repeat, that this topic and this proposal in the reform of the judiciary have come somewhat from a narrower end. Maybe even say some entered on the wrong side. If the total reform of the judiciary I think we haven't discussed so openly and seriously in this place, if this reform which is a major task for us leads to a faster trial, therefore faster treatment, fairer trial, easier justice and if this will be achieved with a smaller number of courts and a more rational technical view of the relationship in the judiciary system, then the benefit is twice as much. We were here when there was talk of the same subject last year against the abolition of the courts because at the time we seemed to have talked first of all about making the availability of the court proceedings or the availability of the trial difficult, that we would not actually do it, that we would not do a favor to the people who need courts and court proceedings. We also talked about the specific areas of return that are in a more unfavourable situation with this proposal. This is where my colleague was talking about miles, talking about expenses. That's what happens now. But I'm going to change my attitude a little bit compared to what we said six, seven months ago. I am aware that there must be rationalization and a network of courts, some kind of technical rationalization because there are a lot of excuses and enough reasons not to bring them here. But once again, it must be the result of our assessment, and it must be the result of the conclusions resulting from what and how we want to do in judicial reform. I agree, I agree with this proposal that we achieve a technical rationalisation of the judicial network, we are actually making assumptions because if we're going to achieve it depends on how we do it. It's not just a small number of presidents, it's not a matter of more rational administration. It should be done in a way that those who answer to that responsibility, but I'm afraid that's the only way we're not going to stop what's going on right now that the state is giving out big money in the name of the penalty for a slow trial. You've got a big million story in the paper today. That's the thing. I'm saying it again because I'm afraid that with these solutions that are being proposed today, we don't come or it's not a transitional period in which we're going to continue to allocate the money to pay the fines I mentioned. And I'm going back to the same thing because I think it's terribly important. Here, this debate in this room needs to be brought back to the story of judicial reform with all these contractors and rationalising the network of courts. I'm going to mention something else why I think that story is in charge and that it's actually a center that we have to pay attention to. First, the length of the trial and the tiresome trial with us discourage people with faith in justice. It almost appears in society as perhaps not a general but very widespread feeling. The second thing, when we talk about judges, I have no intention of demeaning that role and that function, but a large number of judicial professions are protected by the law of autonomy and should be protected by arguments of expertise, justice and efficiency. And the third thing, professional competence and undivided authority of people who play a major role in the judiciary. Therefore, professional competence and authority recognised and publicly visible. I'm talking again on the basis of the predominant impression. It only appears in the form of light examples. That means that we have to do a lot of things or that we should have done a lot of things before we reduce the number of courts. Speaking of which, I'll probably raise my hand to support this proposal, but he doesn't bring results if we don't realize what the assumption is and what goes under the heading of the reform... Justice immediately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise I said, I'm afraid of major damage during this transitional period. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6356	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the Honorable Vice President of the House, Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6357	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, sir, State Secretary. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club will support the first reading of the Proposal for this Law on the Seat and Areas of Courts, as an expression of one part of the strategy for judicial reform. This Law on streamlining the network of municipal courts is only part of the justice reform strategy. And clearly, with all other measures, it can only give effect if other measures and other laws are passed which will lead to faster, more effective and fair justice. Therefore, it should be pointed out that without other components, in the context of judicial reform, this law would clearly not be enough in itself to bring about cheaper, faster justice, because slow justice is no justice but injustice. Why will the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club support this bill aimed at rationalising the network of courts of the same kind. So, the merger of municipal courts. And that's those municipal courts that have less than five judges and that have remote courts up to 50 km apart. Because we're convinced that, it's a step forward in faster and more quality justice. Why? Now in the good part, most of the municipal courts, one feels the need for these smaller courts to five judges, one feels the need for a judge not to be so qualified to conduct all proceedings and criminal and civil and civil, civil and individual, individual areas of civil civil trial from status cases and all others. So there is necessarily a need for specialization. Specialisation is also one of the key directions from the rationalisation of the network of courts that judges will be grouped according to specialities in the area of individual branches of the judiciary, individual branches of law, in particular that judges who will be concentrated in a municipal court will be able to devote themselves to specialised cases on certain parts of the law. Second, there are fewer judges in these municipal courts who belong to other municipal courts who create major difficulties and problems for judges who go either to sick leave or to vacations or do not have them as not only judges but also staff create major problems in the trial. Therefore, it should be believed that this kind of rationalisation will lead to more quality and faster justice. More quality and faster justice, but clearly if those other parts of the justice reform strategy are achieved complementarily and change these organisations in a network of courts. And that is why we need to go with these other parts in reviving the justice reform strategy. Because if that weren't the case then only this measure would be, only this law wouldn't be enough to meet all those goals. There is enough time until 31 December 2019, the Ministry of Justice, the minister of justice, the minister of justice, the minister of justice, should create conditions both spatial and human resources so that these new municipal courts to which they are attached are attached, 42 of these courts are attached to establish themselves and to prepare and prepare functionally to achieve these objectives in order to achieve more quality and faster justice. None of the judges, none of the staff, of these judges who join themselves by establishing new courts to new courts, cannot and must not remain and will not be without their jobs, without their jobs, without their jobs. I am convinced that the Ministry of Justice in Analyticals, in an analysis of the reasons for the rationalisation of the network of municipal courts and the merger of courts of the same kind, carried out such an analysis, taking into account the burden, taking into account the number of judges, the type of cases, concluded that it is precisely this measure that faster and more effective and cheaper justice can be achieved. For this year, 40 million kuna has been provided in the state budget for this rationalisation of the network of courts. In all of the following, every year in the national budgets, it will also be necessary to provide for approximate amounts to be met by 2019 in order to achieve this objective under this law, which is to pass on by establishing new courts to bring the courts together from their current real and local jurisdiction. The dynamics of this process that the Ministry needs, but should also be monitored and monitored by the Croatian Parliament for every concrete court that passes to another court that the Croatian Parliament is aware of, that the Croatian Parliament will monitor and monitor at what pace, which will create all the necessary conditions, for example, that I do not know the court, the present court of Lower Miholjec, which is proposed to transfer its work to the area of the Municipality of Valpova, that the Croatian Parliament will be thoroughly aware that all conditions are created so that there can be functioning in that building where the court will be. So, to secure finance, to secure money, to secure money, to ensure therefore and staff, everything needed and to reduce that in the most painless way, that one fact that hands to the heart all those who know feel some as already acquired the right to have certain courts co-exist for many years, that this is now the affairs of the court's work, in their neighbouring place up to 50 kilometers. It is a psychological barrier that will need to be overcome, but prevailing is so that citizens truly believe that they will be better quality, that they will also be faster justice, and that this justice will be ensured in a way that indeed in a place where the court will be tried more quickly, they will be given a better trial. This clearly depends largely on all the preparations that the ministry needs to make and which should also be in line with the interests of the local community to convince them, so that people realize that this is not some need of some imaginary state or the need to join the European Union, but that it is their own interest to the citizens of the community that they will, in doing so, raise awareness of their needs and desire to make these changes in the organisation, rationalise the network of municipal courts indeed do, to accept it as their own solutions. It is certain that through this debate, there will also be views and opinions from individual electoral units that will need and seriously and consider whether a particular court should be attached to another court. Whether that particular court should be in some place, but I think that through this debate all these views will be discussed thoroughly and that we will have prepared for another reading after this debate the final draft law that will listen to the interests of all citizens, all these environments, MPs, so that one of the most qualitative solutions can be found. And looking at today and in Europe Croatia as regards the network of courts, at least these basic municipal courts have a view of the number of inhabitants, looking at its size has an disproportionate number of basic municipal courts compared to all other related countries of similar size, so that we are here by the number of courts and the number of judges at the very top of a scale that does not result at the same time should, and as paradox, result in a faster and more high-quality justice. Finally, we will support, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, this proposal for a law in the first reading. We hope that through the debate, all those reasons and attitudes will be crystallized, which will contribute to better and better quality law, and thus to better and better and faster justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6358	Thank you. And on behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6359	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here, first of all, I'm going to go with a quote of the state's assessment, that is, basic issues that need to be regulated by law. And it is literally said here that according to the now applicable Law on Areas and Courts in the Republic of Croatia, we have 115 municipal courts. Of this, 107 municipal courts, 21 County Courts and 13 Commercial Courts work. And it is then continued to establish a total of 65 municipal courts and determine their area and headquarters, according to the proposal of this law from the so far 107 municipal courts. Thus, 42 municipal courts are attached to the municipal courts established by these laws. And I'm not picking it up right now. Between them and the Assembly Court in Buzet, which connects with the Community Court in Pazin, which I will speak of most because I come from that environment. If the existing network of courts proved ineffective, and here we have seen that they will be abolished or 42 municipal courts are proposed, so we know that, but we also know that those who propose this legislative proposal should know that the Buzet Municipal Court was not an ineffective court. I guess it wasn't, so it wasn't an ineffective court, primarily the presidents of that court, and it must have been one of the most intense municipal courts in the state. When it comes to Istria, this time there was no attempt to abolish as was proposed in that legislative proposal a year ago. First the Rovinj court, then Poreč. Here's the burden of reforming the trial in some way when it comes to Istria fell on Buzet. I know that a large number of Istrians will relax when they find out or see this legal proposal, but the Buzeans have the right to dissatisfaction. In 2008, we just got off to a bad start. It started out as a bad year. First, the Slovenians lifted a border crossing through which the largest number of freight traffic in Istria went. Then Minister Cobankovic announced the removal of the mountain-mounted area. And here, in a few months, the City Court of Buzet will be abolished. Buzet is probably one of the most economically developed areas in the Republic of Croatia. Exports per capita are about 20 grand. As I'm surprised President Sanader didn't go to the Pantovčak Meeting, I'm so surprised President Mesic didn't invite anyone to the meeting from Buzet. I also claim that there is no more work to be done, no more discipline is done anywhere than in Buzet. But early '90s. They were tough years, when our whole system collapsed. Why do I have an introduction like that? To say that a city like Buzet came out of that crisis thanks to its people, but also thanks to its institutions, whether it's about the city, whether it's about the police, whether it's about the cataster, whether it's about the municipal court, whether it's about some other institutions, or even political parties that, when the city's interest, are still the interests of the city in the first place, and then these party interests are slowly pushing into another plan. This is where the questions were asked if this system was too expensive for us? I suppose it is, but I'll try to explain it again on that Buzet example. I claim that the merger of that court with that of Pazin will increase the costs of the state and will not reduce them. Clearly, it will increase the costs of some citizens. And that's absolutely true. Second to calm the Buzeans. The law shall enter into force on the basis of this proposal 1.10.2008. The court in Buzet will remain, the cadastre remains, the garter remains. The question then arises, if the court stays, if the judge or the judges work there, if the cadastre stays, or the garter, then what does this legal proposal really change? Buzet won't have any more, now he's the President of the Court, so the President of the Court, unless Vesna Katarincic becomes the President of the Court in Pazin. The second one will be changed by a court board in Buzet that will no longer be written by the Municipal Court in Buzet, but will be written by the Municipal Court in Pazin. So what are we saving? We're actually saving on the salary of the President of the Court or the President of the Court. I don't know what that salary is, 12, 13 thousand kuna. So that's where we're going to save a thousand or two thousand kunas, but to assume it's at least once a week I don't know, the judges, the president of the court are going to travel to Pazin, so the cost of the living room, the gas, the car, plus that board that needs to be changed is bigger and not smaller. What, then, is fundamentally changing by the basis of this law? It's actually changing this judicial administration. And that in one part will cause a problem for the citizens, where, for example, by confirming impunity, they will now have to go to Pazin, and not more like the case so far, this same confirmation, for example, will be won in Buzet. Such a certificate should be given to every economic operator when a tender occurs, when working with a country such a certificate should be given to citizens on a daily basis, mainly in employment and so on. Otherwise, what I want to say hello, deliberately apostrophe, is this bilingualism of the courts that is in this legislative proposal when it comes to Istria, preserved or maintained. It's one civilizational reach to be hailed. You've been swindled by the secretary of state one small mistake in copying at the District Court in Rovinj. There are some dishes to be deleted, to be added to Denial, but this mistake I assume is unintentional, but it's not that it's not random, so it was accidentally stolen. That's the result of that game when you first tried to abolish the court in Rovinj, so the court in Poreč, etc. I know this law will pass as soon as the representatives of the ruling clubs have said so, but I know that it will also help my city, Buzet, this law will not help. But perhaps in the second reading, these arguments will be appreciated. I said that the year we were talking about Buzet was a bad start. First, the Slovenians abolished a border crossing. There is now also an announcement of the abolition of the mountain-mounted area, which is a bit more serious than this court, because this is about the money of every employee, every economic operator. And don't play with it. And it's clear now that this court is being terminated. What I think should open up a debate about each court in person, let's see to what extent the court is up-to-date, and then let some of them be abolished. The same Mr. Shex in front of the HDZ club is absolutely logical, but also the vice president of this House said he should hope, that he should believe that there will be faster justice. We generally hope for many things, but often that hope turns into an illusion. If nobody on the other side like we heard in these courts, etc. He won't be out of a job, then you're really a man asking the question then why do you cancel these dishes? I say it is not a problem in the number of courts in the Republic of Croatia but is a problem in the existing legal procedure. The problem is about the laws passed by this House, which is above all the Law on Procedure and a whole series of material laws to change, to make justice more understandable, to make it cheaper and to make all that same justice available to people. The clear greatest burden of any judicial reform will be on judges, and they are too often cancer of the early Croatian judiciary, they admit it to themselves or not. So we have three problems or four problems. The first problem is our judges, the second problem is the existing procedure, the third law, the clear price of the trial, but I think that we're also going to have something to say about that law, so these are problems and it's not a problem I don't know the number of courts. For example, here's when I say that often judges are the cancer of this society's wounds, it's enough to mention the Lenac case. Eight hundred and fifty million kunas are lost, no one is responsible. The Rijeka Bank case, a billion kunas lost, or $138 million, happened when the dollar was 8 and eventually turned out to be responsible for the collapse only Podgornik who opened the door every morning of the bank. It means what else to say. So I am told that there are no, I must quote this, binding the European Union regulations or the directive that Croatia must form when it comes to this network. I didn't understand the Vice President when he mentioned the year even 2019. The only thing the European Union commits is the legal property of the European Union, and it is not regulated or prescribed the way of reform, but is in the jurisdiction of the country itself to implement it. Thirdly, he objects that we have too many courts which may be true, but we are the only ones who do not know Europe. In this way, we have an overpriced system of trial for exaggeration that has previously been resolved in administrative proceedings. There needs to be rationalization, first of all, the establishment of infringement departments in municipal courts such as in that pilot project already done, for example, in Buzet, as our Slovenian neighbours did long ago and others. Finally, Europe does not ask us to rationalise the network ourselves, it also says the case of neighbouring Slovenia which entered the European Union four years ago and has not abolished any of its municipal courts. I think you should be extremely careful when it comes to this law and I also think that it is still not the time for this law if, among other things, the years are mentioned like 2019 or similar to them. It means so much, and since it's the least I can do about the court from the city I come from, it's understandable that I'll be against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6360	Thank you. At 10.42, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The reform of the judiciary is certainly one of the priorities of the Croatian state, one of the priorities of course of this Parliament. This is just one small step in judicial reform and unfortunately one of the first steps, because we are witnesses to a still big problem in the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. It would be a great joy for us if this really started to solve the problem of justice effectively. This is only about the start of rationalisation in the area of the seat of courts in the Republic of Croatia. So it's just a reduction in the number of courts and a reduction in the number of courts, I guess we're not sure yet, with a reduction in the cost of the work of the courts. We'll see if that really leads to the fallout. The club of national minorities is pleased that it gave up the original solution to the abolition of autonomy I say, the Rovinj court and the merger of the court in Rovinj with the court in Poreč. Not because we'd have something against Porec, on the contrary. It is because the Rovinj court is the oldest court in Istria on the one hand, and on the other hand it is a court that is relatively better than the rest of the courts working bilingually. As we know, the Law on the use of minority languages requires that in municipalities, pardons in cities and in districts where bilingualism is foreseen, that courts also have a certain height of bilingualism. We are witnessing the situation that despite the fact that this law has been in existence for eight years, in fact bilingualism has not worked seriously in courts or in the Rovinj court which is the relatively best court in myself I think in Croatia as regards bilingualism. When we had a discussion about using bilingualism. When we had a debate here in this Chamber about courts and the use of language in court, then there was the President of the Rovinj Court, Mr. Vuđeri, who, of course, praised the work of this court and we join it. And we claim it's the best judgment. On the other hand, there is still a great way to the bilingualism of the court. A good reader of the Law on the Use of the Language of National Minorities will realize that today, in Croatia, courts do not work bilingually. Doing bilingualism means something else. It's a natural thing that because it's created and otherwise one such atmosphere today we don't even have a lot of demands from representatives of national minorities. Let us not forget that 7.5% of people in Croatia are declared representative of national minorities. We don't have a lot of requests to run objects in the language of some of the national minorities. Instead of being the reason why we don't consider this problem important, it means poor use of bilingualism in a court of law, we'd have to ask ourselves something completely different, we'd have to wonder why the members of the national minorities don't ask for disputes to be held in their language. It is, of course, a problem of trust in courts and trust in the judiciary. It's a long way to reform the judiciary. We managed to do it with a relatively long battle not as much as for other things but for a month it was still a battle to save what we called a court in Rovinj and we succeeded in it. And here the proposal to abolish the best bilingual relatively, very relatively best bilingual court in Croatia has prevented it from being abolished. But I repeat, the National Minorities Club believes that the path to judicial reform and a path that includes, of course, not only the honesty of the court, not only the affirmation of all the values that the courts need to have but also the affirmation of bilingualism as an expression of positive discrimination that involves bilingualism, so this path to judicial reform is very, very long before us. The National Minorities Club will eventually leave its members to vote depending on their place of residence because of course everyone has their own, representatives of national minorities in one part are party members, in one part are independent, each has its own interests of course. They will let the National Minorities Club know that each member votes for his interests and his conscience because for example we cannot ignore the fact that the whole of Istria, meaning not only the Italians but also the whole of Istria, has shown negatively that the court in Rovinj has been abolished, so even a representative of the Italian national minority cannot close their eyes to the fact that one otherwise good court in Istria is abolishing the one in Buzet at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6362	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6363	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I would like to say a few words about the upcoming reform of the judiciary and warn of some details regarding the possible application of the reform to the Varazdin County. First, it should be said that there are over 184 thousand inhabitants in Varazdin County and the ministry has provided for only one court, while in some other districts that have up to a third of the population, even up to three courts are less foreseen. It is unclear on the basis of which such a decision has been taken. Perhaps because of the fact that some of the counties are mostly mountain-mounted, but on the other hand, the same situation is also in the area of the town of Ivanca. The municipality court in Ivanac covers a wide area from the county border with Krapina-Zagorje County to the interstate border with Slovenia. Due to the poor transport connection of public transport, it is difficult for citizens to come to Ivanec and how much difficulty it will be with coming to Varazdin, the legislator is obviously not so important. It is obvious that some in Croatia think that each family has several cars and that the problem of transportation and availability of services is not the problem of the state. In addition, in Varazdin County we are constantly witnessing the suspension of bus lines because of the so-called. indemnity of transport to individual remote places making life more difficult for residents. The rationalisation of the judiciary is certainly necessary but not by abolishing courts and making it difficult for citizens to achieve their constitutional rights, which is making it available to all state bodies at a minimum cost. Some citizens would travel more than 70km in one direction to the court in Varazdin. Among them are the people of Bezova, who must cross the Croatian-Slovenian border. Already now, citizens are spending 50 kuna on coming to Ivanec for the bus while they will need 100 kuna for their trip to Varazdin. It is the same case with citizens of the former municipality of Ludbreg where residents of the municipality bordering the Križevci-Koprivnica County, for example the Mali and Veliki Bukovec municipalities, will have to take place in a way that guarantees their constitutional rights to judicial protection. The Ivanek court has been working continuously for 110 years, and the collection of documents shows that court registrations were before 1895. It has 41 thousand inhabitants from two cities and four municipalities of the Ivanje region. He employs a total of 31 employees, of which six judges. Last year received and solved about a thousand 500 cases. The most employment is a grantin in which four workers do not arrive to meet the requirements of the parties. In 2007, they issued 15 thousand land-book excerpts. Here's an example. Ivanec and Slatina are the only cities in Croatia that have six judges or have courts in which they work six judges, so they meet the criteria for which you suggest we abolish them. Therefore, I think that the abolition of courts and grants in Ivanac, Novi Marof and Ludbreg and their unification in a massive centralized court in Varazdin will not result in the rationalisation of the judiciary and the increase of its efficiency but vice versa. Large increases in the costs of the functioning of the court, which must anyway be borne by taxpayers and also by new direct financial burdens on citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6364	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, it seems to me that in this Chamber, what we all agree on from the finding is the claim that Croatia needs judicial reform. However, when we start talking about what should be the first step, the second step, the third step, fifth or 15th, when and in order to draw them, it is normal for each of us to have a view and a position. But I am most sorry that, listening to the secretary of state's opening statement, we always come with one step in which we speak as the first step in reforming something. It would probably be far easier or more understandable to discuss in, on judicial reform, that the government came before Parliament with the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th step in the package. For the situation in the Croatian judiciary, it is my opinion that the judges themselves and their associations, who because of their false solidarity among the Czechs, within the Czech Republic, did not realize in time that the poor situation in the judiciary, and even worse public perception of the situation in the judiciary, will sooner or later cost most of them. And when the problem is solved in the package then often the punishment of the age and those who have not earned it deserve. And there are always too many who get out of sanctions, when measures of rationalisation, reform are taken, not by personal quality of ability and efficiency, but by packages. From the proposed law, I will refer to only one provision, which is the one that provides for the abolition of the Municipal Court in Prelog. First of all, historical facts. The court was established in 1850 and until 1918 it acted as a royal court. From '18 to '41, he was... Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the Hungarians occupied the Međimurje and gave him the status of the Kotar court, so even during the Hungarian occupation, the Hungarians did not dare to abolish the court, but gave him the status of the Kotar court. Since '45. By '63, there was a court of wheels, and then it was lifted. Who knows why and what political circumstances were then present. And the Prelog was remanded in the mid-1990s. And it was welcomed by everyone not only in that part of Medimurje, but also in the then Municipal Court in Čakovec, because it meant discharging their work. It is also interesting that this Municipal Court in Prelog works, has offices in the building owned by the City of Prelog, which has freed the whole area of the court, so no rent is paid, but the city building is assigned to the state, the court, that they can use it for free for these purposes, about 200 square meters. According to the number of cases that were back in that court three years ago, which were resolved or transferred as not resolved in the following year, according to the data itself, it is in the upper half of somewhere dozens of the success of Croatian municipal courts. Comparing, and listening to the criteria proposed by the applicant in this proposal, it is not possible to take away the impression that the criteria again as many as they are listed have strange paths when it comes to paper. So, for example, according to this proposal by Međimurje with 120 thousand inhabitants and 25 units of local self-government would have 1 municipal court. Požeko-Slavon County with 85 thousand inhabitants and 8 units of local self-government would have 1 municipal court. Varazdinska with 180 thousand inhabitants, if I'm not mistaken, and 28 units of local self-government 1 municipal court. And besides those three, it's still just the Personal-Senj and Virovitica-Podravska with one municipal court. Now, Istra probably has six times as many residents as Međimurje, because Istria would have six municipal roads, probably have six times as many units of local self-government, legal persons benefiting from the service of municipal courts. So neither the population nor the local self-government units, nor the number of legal persons, nor the territorial distance. These three examples, whichever criteria you take don't match, don't hold water. I have no requirement for Istria to reduce the number of municipal courts, but there were other additional criteria, bilingualism, the interest of national minorities. In Međimurje, that criterion was not present. The promoter may not know, but in the structure of the population in Međimurje there is also a significant number of those we call national minorities, not a word of it. And therefore, a concrete proposal in this first reading, likely that the Secretary of State will listen and accept, at least to take a good look at the proposal, that the existing Municipal Court in Prelog remains, has so far covered about 30,000 inhabitants, but that by extending its jurisdiction we only reach the status or coverage of the 50,000 inhabitants. So that the Prelog would cover the area of Belica, Dekanovec, Donja Dubrava, Donji Kraljevec, Donji Vidovec, Domasanec, Gorica, Kotoriba, Mala Subotica, Orehovica, Poturet, Saint Mary and City of Prelog. While the Town Court in Čakovec would cover the entire central and upper part of Međimurje. And I think that such a proposal would satisfy absolutely all the criteria that the Government has presented here in writing and today's introduction to the explanation, but also when Mr. Shakespeare spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the same criteria, listening to them carefully, this proposal contains itself. This team is more than possible because, possibly, the relocation of judges and officials from Prelog to Čakovec over the next 10 years is not possible, because the spatial conditions of the Municipal Court in Čakovec, the problem of the district court has barely been resolved by the transfer of the municipal court to these premises, and the current migration or rapid relocation of the business from Prelog to Čakovec is simply not possible because it should again look for a spatial location where this expanded by the number of judges and employees should act at all. If the City of Prelog, and is ready, and continues to give and leave on the use of the building where the court is now, then I think it's far cheaper for the state. And it seems to me that the question of ability and quality and the Municipal Court in Prelog and Čakovec government has so far not led to doubt. That's why I'd like you to consider this proposal and I want to believe that in the second reading, that's exactly how it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6366	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6367	Thank you very much, Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The aim of this law that we have before us, which should enter into force on 1 October of this year, is to rationalise the network of courts as an integral part of the reform of the judicial system, i.e. bringing it into line with the acquis of the European Union. The fundamental principle of proposed rationalization, that's what the secretary of state told us about, and we've all heard it many times before. Therefore, the fundamental principle of this rationalisation is the merger of courts of the same kind with respect to two criteria. It is that in these courts it works less than 5 judges and that courts are less than 50 km away from each other. However, already a summer view of the newly proposed network of municipal courts shows that the established criteria although they themselves are not esteemed, because there are more cases where courts with less than 5 judges and courts less than 50 km away from neighbouring courts are detained. It turns out that actually the criteria are only established for forms. That is why it can be said that the bill is actually discriminatory, because some counties with equal population as my Međimurje County will remain 3 municipal courts while Međimurje will remain only one. Therefore, the judiciary as a state service will not be equally accessible to all citizens. Furthermore, Croatian citizens in a pre-election campaign for this assembly of parliament were promised decentralisation primarily by the state administration. When the government was presented, the prime minister said this in his address, and I'll quote it. “The balanced development of all parts of Croatia is a prerequisite for the stability of the country and the equal position of all its inhabitants.” The proposed suspension of courts is not at all on this trail, which is the new centralisation. Finally, the question of the very essence of rationalisation is raised if it is borne in mind that, by 2019, the Minister of Justice will determine by a special regulation the establishment of permanent services in which judges will be dislocated until the conditions for the court's work at its headquarters are ensured. Therefore, in places where municipal courts are abolished, we will not have courts but permanent services. It's not a neck, it's a neck! It is obvious that in all of this, the most profitable producers of signboards and printers who are certainly happy to rub their hands because they will have a lot of work to do. And now from the general to something more concrete. All of us MPs come from certain local environments that are vital to the consequences of this law. When it comes to the County of Međimurje, this bill suggests joining the Municipal Court in the Prelog municipal court in Čakovec, which my colleague Lesar spoke about earlier, so that the county with 22 municipalities and 3 cities and with more than 120,000 inhabitants will have only one municipal court. What we are afraid of in Međimurje is that in one of the following rationalisations the County Court in Čakovec will also be abolished, since the County Court as a second-degree court can practically not remain in charge of only one municipal court. The Municipal Court in Prelog was founded in 1990 because we believe there was a need for it. Not to mention that the Prelog also had its municipal court from the far 1850 until 1945 as the Royal Kotar Court and by 1963 as the Kotar Court in Prelog. As counterpart Lesar said in Prelog, the court was not abolished even during the Hungarian occupation of Međimurje from 1941 to '45, and now that we have our Croatian state, the court now wants to be abolished and it is clear that the citizens of Lower Međimurje and Međimurje are generally very dissatisfied with the fact. Today, the Municipal Court in Prelog covers the area of 7 units of local self-government with 30,000 inhabitants. It's got 15 people out of three judges. The land and book department of this court covers 20 catastrian municipalities with about 58000 z.k.a. Intakes, and annually issues only 10,000 land-booked excerpts, not to mention other court cases. What problems will cause this court to be attached to the Municipal Court in Čakovec? First of all, there will be a spatial problem, as conditions for the functioning of this court and the County Court have barely been created in the existing area of the Municipal Court in Čakovec and after the misdemeanor has been removed. So you're going to have to provide extra space, which is a new cost. I'm asking, is that rationalization? And the Municipal Court in Prelog now has a functional space in the building that is owned by the city of Prelog and which, if necessary, can be expanded and completely free of charge. The city of Prelog is a local environment that has been developing very intensively since 1990. Prelogous entrepreneurs record the highest economic growth rates in the county. Moreover, it is a strong export-oriented economy based on new technologies such as illustrations to state that the export rate of the pre-burden economy is 26% to 14% of the average export rate in the Republic of Croatia. Should colleagues and colleagues need such a successful economic environment for our country or not, and whether these environments need to be provided with all public services necessary for even faster development and progress. The abolition of the municipal court will lose a very important part of the public infrastructure needed by the economy and citizens of Lower Međimurje, and one of the main attributes of the city will be lost. Leading by a series of arguments presented, the Međimurians expect an individual approach to be respected. Each individual case of the court should be analysed and this proposal of a network of municipal courts will be amended by the second reading in such a way that the Prelog municipal court will remain in that network by extending its jurisdiction and territorial work in such a way as to add a total of 6 municipalities with around 20,000 inhabitants to the existing 7 municipalities and thus have two municipal courts in Međimurje with equal jurisdiction and territory and with a more even schedule of population. Of course, in the Municipal Court of Prelog, there would also be an increase in the number of judges who could clearly then absorb a far greater number of court cases. At least from the Međimurac point of view. Justice services would make it more accessible to citizens, and that is absolutely the most important. Unfortunately, the proposed quasi will not reduce judicial costs or make the judiciary more effective. Citizens will not get a better service but every year until 2019 until the process of rationalising courts should be completed, they will receive millions of bills for another, unfortunately, cosmetic project only. In this year alone, the account will weigh 40 million kunas, namely the amount of funds secured in the 2008 state budget for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6368	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Buric-Pejcinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ma'am, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, now that I'm listening to some debates that go against the proposals of this Law on Areas and the seat of a court man would say so here's really not going to be achieved, all these courts need to stay where they are and in fact all of what the government's been doing for the last few years is not serving anything. I'd like to say here at first that the experience of other countries that have been going through similar changes speaks differently. In one case, however, he certainly testifies to what we are witnessing and in this debate today. It's a hard job, it's a job that isn't, especially for whoever brings it, in any case popular, because, of course, as with all other things, what's acquired, what's located somewhere isn't popular to end. But here in this House I would like to ask the question, is the popularity in a certain environment of some legislative proposals a reason not to approach this very serious business, and it is certainly serious, it is a testimony to the fact that someone was saying this today, so that we are a country that today in Europe has the largest number of courts and the largest number of unsolved cases. Of course, this one law that we have here will not solve it in itself, but it is an important law in the context of judicial reform and I would certainly disagree with colleagues who have represented a different view, would disagree, so this will contribute to efficiency, but we may not see that effectiveness immediately. A colleague who spoke before me spoke of a particular environment that certainly according to what I know belongs to developed environments, so an environment that promotes small and medium entrepreneurship, etc. and, of course, it is generally essential for the economy to have an effective judiciary. However, effective justice does not mean that a court that needs to decide on certain matters must be located a few miles from where it will work but where it will have to go to trial, the court will be effective. And right through this prism of efficiency, I see this big job that the government actually got into, and I would like to congratulate her on that, because from what I've been talking to my colleagues in various and very developed European Union countries, wherever it was done, it wasn't simple and it was working on a long time, I know a province in Germany that my colleague told me that they were trying to do it for 30 years, and then finally a political consensus was adopted to do it. So politically, it's definitely not an easy job. If that were the case, I don't know how many colleagues and colleagues you've been tracking and the situation in France. So France enters one of these similar reforms, one developed country, no one can say that surely the French system that exists for a very long time and is very famous is not good. But they haven't changed their structure in the last 40 years. Life has changed, needs have changed and France is getting into this business. Believe me, according to what I've been following in the French media, the resolution minister has been exposed to the barbaric fire because for the same reasons that we hear here in our Croatian Parliament are also in various departments in France colleagues and fellow rebels and say that the situation should actually remain what it is. I return to that initial thesis, so efficiency first of all, and this law certainly intends to achieve it, but it is a complex business. It shall require, in each respect, both costs and financial expenditure, etc. And that's why I've heard that we've also mentioned here why it's in some cases until 2019, which since this year seems very far away. Well, it's because it's being done seriously, that this business is being approached systematically and that it really wants to do what's best. Of course, this is not meant to stop, but in preparation for how well it is known and that there is a similar rationalisation in the criminal courts, but this debate, which is in the first reading, will contribute to the surety of this second step in which the government will go and we will discuss here, is well prepared and well done. That the government had approached this very seriously shows the fact that she had been doing it for a while, that she certainly had access to where it was possible by respecting certain specificities, such as courts on the islands. However, if we were to go by specificities, of course, that each of us in the middle from which it comes, could find a series of reasons to defend that a court is determined either for reasons of long tradition or for others, or for being very effective and good courts that we should remain. But as always, the government had to limit itself to what is most important, to a certain set of measures that are here and defined, and thus actually joined this rationalization that is ahead of us. What goals should be given to this, or the results of this law. I'll tell you just certainly a rational judiciary, an effective, more even burden of judges. My colleagues and colleagues, I wasn't there to hear the argument all the time, but I didn't hear that we talked about it. It must also be important to think about that there are judges who are certainly doing much more than others, and I think that part of the efficiency and proper deployment is, therefore, a more even burden on judges to deal with backlogs. It's certainly a great success, you know that maybe a year and a half to two years ago we had a million and a half unsolved court cases. Now it has fallen below a million, it is still a large number, but still when you take the total number and the time in which the number of these cases is reduced you can certainly say that you are going towards a more efficient and faster settlement of court cases. Certainly greater economicity of the system and ultimately no less important, greater citizens' confidence in the judiciary. Therefore, generally in the state as one who has to be at the service of citizens. So that the benefits for the citizens are visible will certainly be easier to approach, easier to exercise the right to legal protection, which means, above all, to shorten the duration of the proceedings. For judges more evenly deploy the cases, the workload of judges, greater training opportunities, specialization, improvement and progress of judges. And in the end, I would underline no less important for sure in the longer term and financial savings. Here I would actually end up with this and that part, at first someone said, this is primarily important to us, this is one big law that is a step in resolving the issue of judicial reform. Of course, for that reason too, this law is the most important. So we need to get the justice that our citizens deserve. However, we should not forget that in this business we contribute to another important goal in which we have all agreed in this House, which is the accession of the European Union. So, at the same time, by doing this to our citizens, we want to give our citizens a better judiciary, and we want to meet the criterion in this area and certainly meet that part of the political criterion that speaks of the need for a rule of law. This certainly also measured this political criterion to a large extent. Thank you very much, and for that I think that this law should certainly be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6370	Thank you. Two replicas. First respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6371	So here I would like to replicate to my colleague Buric Pejcinović. She used the argument that we are the country that has the largest number of judges and the number of pending cases as an argument why this law should be passed. This law does not talk about reducing the number of judges but about reducing the number of courts and moving the same number of judges to other areas. I don't see any correlation between the efficiency of the courts, with the same judge working in another office or in another office that will increase the efficiency of his work. Now, as far as economics is concerned, it is also said here that 40 million kuna are foreseen for the implementation of this law this year, and by 2020, new additional funds will be provided in future state budgets compared to what we have today. It would be much more convincing, and I would agree with you that in this law, either in the introduction or in the explanation, exactly what are the objectives of this law, how much will the budget of the Justice Department be reduced compared to the existing one, because that would be the case when it comes to economics? How much will be increased in relation to the investment of the state budget, the efficiency of the work of judges and courts? What is the time limit for this law to be resolved? How many citizens and what year will they expect to get rid of their cases? So how do we increase the efficiency of this court? There's only one mechanical measure here to remove the courts. At the first moment, it will only come down to increasing the costs of the Ministry of Justice because it will be necessary to change tables, cards, memos, etc. Because so all these arguments that you've been talking about simply don't appear in this law, and I really suggest to the Proposer that he installs it all until the second reading and then clearly tells us how much money, why the citizens will have 2020 and how effective the judiciary so that we can have monitoring criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6372	Reply to the replica by Ms. Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I would answer this question as an economist, rarely in that function I speak here. First of all, speaking of efficiency, I'd like to say that here we have to look not as perverse economists which is cost and what is investment? This is an investment. So, I don't know how many colleagues I can make on the 11-year deadline that this is all supposed to answer, what savings are going to be, but I'm sure this is a huge investment whose direct financial results can't be seen right away. But it's certainly an investment that will get results. As for that first remark of yours, how much will it contribute to that fact, the number of judges will not be reduced but the number of courts will be reduced? Again from the position of the economic profession I can say here that it is clear to everyone that when you have one court that judges at least with a larger number you have individual costs per head of each of these certainly through the information, through the costs of those who are some fixed costs, certainly much less. Thus, it will certainly be through this fact that it will work in one space and not to say that today the burden of both judges is not equally allocated. This certainly wants to make things more even and therefore better and more effective in solving court cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6374	Mrs. Representative, dear zgrebec replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would refer to that part of the exposition of a colleague who said that in other countries the debates of a long, long-term, many years, even decades of even certain problems were being discussed by Germany, which had been discussing the problem of the judiciary and the network of courts for 30 years. But what's wrong with us? We don't systematically follow certain institutions when we go into change, we don't have analysis, we don't have the causes or consequences of bad and good sides of a particular system. And we don't give results that are smaller or that will be larger if there are certain changes. I'm going to say that for example to the local self-government units because they're just connected to a network of courts. Namely, we're up to the '90s. There were 113 municipalities in Croatia. Very quickly, even in a few months and only in the debate in Parliament, the Law on Local Self-Government Units Act was adopted in two readings, we established almost 400 municipalities or over 400 municipalities, cities and counties. Adequately, it was then the establishment of new courts. So I'm going to say for example in Međimurje County. '63. The wheels have been shut down for years. Only one municipality was founded and the Kotar Court was abolished in Prelog. He remained then under the new arrangement of the Municipality Court of Čakovec because it became only one municipality in the area of today's Međimurje County. In the 1990s, the establishment of 20 units of local self-government in the county came under the direction of another or two courts. A municipal and county court in Chakovec. Now we have no analysis of what the results of these two municipal courts are but we say there are certain criteria that we see that all parts of Croatia are not applicable and we say we will abolish this court without any further reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6376	We'll stop for a moment with these replicas. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have just been joined by members of the Embassy of the Canadian Parliament who are on official visit to the Croatian Parliament. It is an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me to welcome, on behalf of the representative and representative of the Croatian Parliament, His Excellency, Mr Peter Milliken, president of the Canadian House of Representatives as well as members of the delegation. Please let's all say hello together. Reply to the replica, respected representative of Mrs. Marija Pejcinović-Buric. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, when I talked about those experiences from some Member States of the European Union in particular about Germany, I said that in a context of how difficult it was. In this context, a colleague who passed on his experience to me congratulated us on thinking about it, that we actually came to this stage to take on the political responsibility that such a decision requires. Here, in that context, I think it is very illustrative to see that this political responsibility is not simply taken over and that this time here we have had the courage but also the responsibility to do so. As far as the analysis is concerned, I think the analysis was very detailed in the ministry, but I suppose more can be said by the secretary of state when he speaks here. So, certainly what was done was not based on just what someone thought would be convenient but it was certainly seen and how it was done elsewhere when they were going into such changes and how the situation is today, so those people who are therefore representatives of the Supreme Court and of many other institutions are involved so that I believe that the analyses that have been made have actually shown that they should go and that they should go exactly this way in which we have now come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6378	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6379	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for areas and courts’ seats shall bear the P.Z.E. mark. No. 30 which means that part of the package that we are harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union is accompanied by a declaration of compliance. But the promoter did not ask for an emergency procedure which I interpret as a respect for the problem, its delicacy and the openness of the motions that the first reading debate would offer as a check and a possible correction. The reform of the judiciary should not be proved to be one of the preconditions for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union or a link between all the criteria for membership in the European Union. But at the same time, the aim of this reform that the Ministry of Justice started in 2004 is to increase the legal protection of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to increase the level of rule of law, to increase the legal security of economic operators, etc. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 22 September 2005 a document entitled "The Strategy for the Reform of the Judicial System with the Plan of Action", which provides for the implementation of structural changes, the reorganisation and the reorganisation of the judicial and state-law network, the reduction of the backlog of pending cases, the discharge of courts from cases which are not, in their nature, judicial, up-to-date the alternative ways of resolving disputes, the reduction of the duration of judicial proceedings without jeopardising the parties' rights to a fair trial, the introduction of free legal assistance, etc. Furthermore, on 9 November 2005, the European Commission positively assessed the adoption of the strategy and its content in its progress report on Croatia in the process of adopting European standards. Today, it can be said that a large part of the measures in the action plan have been implemented and the rationalisation of the network of courts is the part that is in the process of resolving it. The initial findings are that Croatia has an excessive and inadequate number of courts, given the size of the state and population. Compared to other European countries, Croatia is one of three countries with the highest number of courts in Europe. It is also one of two countries with the highest number of judges in Europe and with the highest number of administrative staff in the judiciary. Nevertheless, Croatia is the country with the largest number of pending cases in Europe. This is a January 2006 finding. Today, the situation with the number of pending cases is somewhat more favourable. According to the European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice in Croatia, the number of judicial courts is 52 per million inhabitants while the number in Finland is 13, Hungary 13, Moldova 15 and Slovenia is 30. The initial findings are the result of the CARDS 2002 project, the modernisation of the judiciary, the support of a more efficient and modern judiciary in which our twinning partner was Finland, a detailed analysis of economic viability and the savings of rationalisation that the CARDS project 2003, financial impact assessments, the rationalisation of the network of courts. The Justice Ministry Working Group in cooperation with Austrian partners has developed a proposal to streamline the network of courts in a way that brings courts of the same kind together, meaning municipal courts with municipal, misdemeanors. The CARDS 2004 project, carried out in the High Violent Court with the cooperation of German experts, will give the criteria for rationalising the network of criminal courts and the proposal could be completed in July this year. With each rationalization and so on, the question immediately arises what will happen to judges of merger courts that cease to exist. A categorical response can be found on the Justice Ministry's website; there will be no dismissal of judges or officials. Excess can be solved by moratorians to hire new ones. What is expected as a result? Greater efficiency, better organisation of work, greater possibility of specialising judges, more equal burden of judges, more uniform court practice, the possibility at each court to convene councils of several judges, which is not possible today in small courts. And because of all this, I consider the legislative proposal that is before us a result of serious professional analyses and should be accepted and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6380	Thank you. Three replicas. First, Your Honor, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6381	You are talking about a reform that has been successfully started and aimed at increasing legal protection and increasing the rule of law... Look, this measure will neither increase the legal protection of citizens nor increase the rule of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's actually not even rationalizing. What's rationalizing that? Is the number of judges shrinking? No! No! Is the file down? No! No! The records will move from one building to another, reduces the number of buildings. And it is not clear to anyone here how a small number of buildings will affect, or increase the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia and increase legal protection. Well, look, we all know what the problems of the judiciary are. It's a number of unsolved files, it's a long-term trial, and it's often an unquality trial. That's the problem with the judiciary. And judicial reform would have to come from that, from the problem, this isn't the problem. Do you need to reduce the number of courts and rationalize, though, you know when? At the end of that reform, in the end. When you reduce the number of files, when you see that the number of courts is unnecessary given the number of pending cases, then we can go into rationalization. And this is a rationalization that goes wrong, it goes from the end, what should be the last measure, suddenly becomes the first measure. Why? So to create an illusion that something is being done in this reform. But this won't help citizens get easier, simpler and faster to justice. In fact, it's going to make it a little harder for them, and they're going to have to travel a little longer to that justice. That's all the citizens will have from this. Therefore, the reform should have been brought before, but it should have been more determined to bite into that sour apple. It was necessary to consider changing the State Judiciary Council, which allows non-quality judges to remain in the judiciary. Because he doesn't take their licenses, because he doesn't throw them out, that's the problem. This doesn't solve your problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6382	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6383	I cannot agree with your thinking or the sequence of arguments that have been heard here, with the conclusions that you're making. You distinguish the part that justifies your point of view and you fail to notice what was also said in the introduction, the part that would contradict what you represent and predict. Rationalization is not the mechanical way, although it is often used as a milder form of layoff, but is not the only one in it. In the organisation of the work of either the judiciary or any other work organisation and other species shall apply when production is rationalised and in this case the judiciary. It was mentioned here that we have an inequality of the burden of judges in smaller courts compared to larger courts. Here, it's already an argument of the kind that introduces a different atmosphere, a uniform criterion for the burden of each individual judge but then the atmosphere in that court. So the measures that were mentioned here promise to make a positive change, and it needs to be implemented, should be put into it. It's not the wrong way. What hasn't been done yet doesn't even make sense to mention it. We're starting with this situation right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6384	Second replica. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6385	You tell your colleague Pulic that European observations are also such as to warn us that we are the country with the highest number of judges, the largest number of courts and the largest number of pending cases. And that's exactly what you're saying, but you missed something to say, which is most important in that thing, that we're the country that has the largest number of cases in courts given the number of residents. So I've pointed out before that each family now has one case before the court. And that's the biggest problem. And these measures will not make the judiciary available to the citizens, the burden of this kind of to God's reform falls, and will fall right on the citizens who will have to stand out more, pay not only travel expenses, but also on the spot where the entire judicial team will have to go out. And these are the biggest ones, and these are basically the biggest problems that citizens, even these little ones, will bear God's reform procedures themselves, and that certainly shouldn't be intensity. And I repeat, this is one measure, so we're talking about rationalization, we all agree that it is necessary, but it really needs to be stressed again, just as fellow Stazic has now repeated it, it comes at the end, at the end of the day, when the objects are already falling. And you said well that in 2006, until 2006, when you quoted this as saying that we've been having a little fall lately. But imagine that this fall would happen, that by 2003 and 04, it would have been the end of '04. In the year, 12 judicial bodies and five hundred judges and state attorneys were not opened. And if we had closed the courts then, and we didn't hire judges, so where would we be now, how far behind would that be? And who could possibly handle that?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6386	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6387	Comrade Antičević, you have categorically stated that these measures will not increase the efficiency of the courts. I from the same proposed and spoken conclusion quite the opposite, I claim yes. And we should do it. Simply the fact that we have the largest number of judges, the largest number of courts and pending cases, should be read to encourage us to change something in a system that is not efficient. You're going by the logic that a number of cases actually encourages employment and that's the one step that should fix the situation. But it's not! We need to find another solution because we have gone too far with this measure and it is obvious that we have come to an absurd situation that really degrades us compared to neighbouring Slovenia. I think this is a good way to go and that the measures will soon prove effective and the results will be in front of this House as soon as possible. I'm sure we'll be informed of positive progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6388	Next replica, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6389	Well, you see, colleague Pulic, the real problem is that too. We've got here a bill of law that has such far-reaching effects on efficiency, on the standard of citizens that is ten pages. We do not have here any measure or criteria on how much costs will be reduced or increased or by investments increase efficiency. We don't know when or how many items will be reduced. On the one hand, you say we have too many judges and administrative staff. On the other hand, we won't fire. We don't have anything here. We only have 10 pages of paper here that reads that the number of courts will be reduced from 107 to 65, where they are punished effectively, because nomotechnical error has occurred in the bill that the municipal court in Djurđevec remains, and then the error has turned out because it is abolished, and it has been abolished for the last 10 years because it is one of the most efficient courts in the Republic of Croatia. So why remove effective vessels if we have such a problem? Let's combine inefficient vessels with efficient and inefficient inefficient courts. There is no one against the reform of the judiciary, but we really need arguments for that. I want to know what will be the consequence of this reform. When we have an effective judiciary, not when a judge from Djurdjevac will have conditions, where the Ministry of Justice has restored the building to Koprivnica where neither the judges in the Municipal Court in Koprivnica have any place to conduct the debate, where the Criminal Court is in the subunity. They pay nothing but the phone where the County State's Attorney's Office is in the sub-house, and now we'll tell you all about it. You from Djurdjevac go to Koprivnica. I don't know where they're going to judge, in a tent in front of a municipal court. And in Jurdjevac we have a beautiful building, an efficient court and everything else necessary to prosecute there. So these are the arguments we're talking about. We are not against reform, but reform cannot be reduced to ten pages of the law that talk about the abolition of a certain number of courts without any criteria. How are we going to track what happened, how are we going to know in 2010 whether the objectives of this law have been achieved?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6390	Reply to the replica Mr. zastavnik Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6391	I can't tell you about those arguments you brought to the court in Đurđevec. I just don't know the situation, but I can tell you that what's already been mentioned here is wrong for every single court that attaches or abolishs how you say you find arguments not to do it because it could always be found for any court as well as for a jujube. However, we are discussing here and these measures have been taken before us, before this High Body to resolve the system, not an individual case. Here, even in terms of Djurjevac as an effective court, he's imposed himself in some way as if this merger was the result of punishment and rewarding. I think it's the wrong way and that way you really can't support it, because you can't even understand this concept that's proposed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6392	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6393	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to get a little involved in this debate here on behalf of the motionary. I'd just like to say this isn't about lifting. It's not the primary point and it's not the purpose of this law to abolish any court. You're trying to connect her here. The weight here is that those small vessels where we have one or two judges with insufficient inflows of cases to bring them to a larger court. What do we get by that? This will give us a larger court that will be able to organise itself better, in which we will be able to make much better use of the resources we have. Because what I said in the opening statement is a court that has one or two judges who must judge in all segments, who must judge both the harassment of property and the compensation of damages and criminal charges. It's not a court that can meet the conditions we need. And that's exactly why we're getting a better organised system, to get courts in which we're going to use those resources much better than we have. In this context, as one of the most important measures that will immediately arise is the possibility of specialising judges. Specializing judges means next. We will have judges who will be specialists and who will judge in individual segments. What does that mean? This means that he will carry out the procedure much faster in a particular case. This means that it will make a much better judgment which will not be so much subject to a number of suspensions by the Court of Appeal and that means that we will ultimately have a faster procedure and a more quality procedure for citizens. As to the fact that this measure is the last, first, or whether it's enough. It is absolutely safe and here with all those who have performed I agree that this measure itself isolated from others will not automatically lead to the quality that we stand for. However, it should be looked at in the light of all the others we are preparing, and therefore I am announcing because one very respectable working group is very fat in the draft amendment of the Law on the Prosecution. Amendments, in fact, make a new Law on the Criminal Process where we are going to set ourselves up and where we want to lead to those about which many here have talked about procedural improvements. We want a faster procedure in the first degree. We want a speedy procedure in the second degree. And when we get all these measures together, then we'll have a much better and better system than we have today. This is a measure we must implement. This is the measure where the criteria are explained we are valid for all of Croatia. We're going to a merger of those courts where we have less than five judges, where we don't have enough inflows. The inflow of cases is by the statistics we have very closely followed by every judge and every court. The inflow of objects decreases from year to year. I want to believe that this is a fact and a consequence, and that we are becoming both society and knowledge and order, and that a little bit of the market is falling off those who act in a way that they want to trick companies that operate exclusively in a way that they want to fool someone into being less and less today. And therefore, since we are becoming one more orderly and civilised society, for the future to expect that we will fall, and therefore I think that this is one law that is simply needed for us not for the sake of the European Union but for our own sakes because we need courts that are efficient and well organised. Unfortunately, you know the court where we have one president and one judge and ten officers today is not. As for projections for the future, of course this takes a lot of funding. We've got some projections on how much it's gonna cost. We've already planned and balanced in the budget for this year. Somewhere we will be able to implement these physical mergers relatively quickly, for example in Kutina we could easily solve and build one floor and connect with Novska would be very soon then. There are such 10, 15 cases where, with little investment, we will achieve the effects that will take place in the next year or two days. It'll be more expensive somewhere, of course. There are projections for all of this, and that's why we set 2019. We'll be satisfied and I believe we'll do it faster. But what will result as a direct consequence and the consequences that will be seen immediately is the specialization of judges, it is a much better quality and better management of these courts that we will get means by taking effect on this law. And I say in preparation there are other laws that must certainly contribute to the speedy conduct of the procedure, which is not to keep our citizens waiting for a year or two or even three at the first hearing. After the first hearing that the procedure is conducted in a way that after two years someone will remember and I would suggest that another witness be heard in the process. We will deal with this in the amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure that is under way and with which we will come out very quickly here and before you. It's about tradition, too. I have to look back on it. There were words that we now abolish courts that are 200 or more years old. Look, again, I'm saying that it's not a stand-off, it's the right word for merger. Jobs will continue to be carried out where there is a need for this in certain organisational entities on the ground either through the departments of these courts. That means we're not doing rationalization to send citizens 50 or 100 kilometers away than we're actually going to spend the organization within our system. We'll send judges specialists where it takes to spend the office days. And when the judge comes in, that debate and that case will not take ten hearings, but it will take three or four, and that's already a big deal, and that's already very important. You know, tradition can also be referred to as Austrian. But today we live in 2008. Today life has brought some other forms, some other nomenclature, and today Austria doesn't actually have that network of courts it had during Austria and they've changed and adapted to living conditions. This is what we do. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6394	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6395	Well, I'd just like to correct Secretary of State Bpsnakovic. As for the suspension of the courts, he said that the courts were abolished with one or two judges, or excuse me, yes. So the District Court in Djurdjevac has five judges employed according to the Justice Ministry's resolution could have eight including the president. So it's not true that one to two is abolished, this is about five. According to the solution, he may have eight including the president and may have 39 employees and 4 deputies. He has 27 employees and 4 deputies at the moment, because unfortunately he could not get consent from the ministry to fill both the number of judges and the number of employees in this period from 95 to today. So it's not exactly a fact or a statement that a judge with one or two is abolished, but here's one of the most pressing, one of the most pressing courts with five judges and can have as many as eight.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6396	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6397	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll be very brief. I agree that this mechanical merger, here's the merger not to lift, but mechanical merger deserves if anything else at least our attention so that we try to help in that second reading to make these mechanical mergers if anything can be fixed, and to benefit our fellow citizens, here's to respect some of our remarks so that these divisions that will be done by such an act are reduced more. Of course, as a politician, I will say on three examples, I am not some expert in the judiciary, but I can rub my hands and say here a year before the local elections there will be no court in my native Novalja where HDZ is in power, there will be no court in my Senj where the HDZ is in power and there will be no court in Vrbovska in my county where the HDZ is in power. So as a politician you could point and say, that's what your authority has given you to remove the possibility of a court being more accessible to you, that the court be closer to you and that you have more quality and faster justice available to you. But I'm not going to be bad, so I'm just gonna try to tell those three examples if anything or anything is possible to fix. In order for something to have the status of the city to first have a square and then possibly a mayor. You should have a doctor, you should have a priest, a postman and of course a judge. Some of these cities I have listed will not have one attribute, or will not have their own judge, and then perhaps the issue should be raised, whether they deserve to be administratively divided or called the city. But in any case, I suggest that in that second reading you wrote here, and there it was, and you yourself said, that both some consultants and people you consulted on making this proposal gave you some opinion, so you would like to see this consulting solution of people you consulted, why you divided like this, or why this mechanical merger, to see what the arguments were and how they were managed to combine certain courts, the criteria that they were, so it might be clearer to us which is smaller, which is the larger court. I doubt that, while wearing this European mark, this law, I doubt that someone exactly Europe has said, here in my native Novalja, let it not be a municipal court. Speaking of Novalja, allow me, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, to highlight this High Croatian House, so that we may need to have our own Cyprus in Croatia so that we can try the Island of Pag, which is divided administratively into two units, to launch an initiative that it belongs to one administrative unit. Is she Zadar, is she Lika-Senjska, whether it's Primorje-Gorskina, whatever. Let the citizens decide that. Because we also see wires falling on Cyprus and walls falling, and we still build walls and work with us. But it's just by the way. We said that the criterion should be available. Well, now I don't know if it's accessible and understandable something that's for Senj, I'm just going to say that example and very... , is it accessible and understandable for Senj who is in Licko-Senj County to belong to the Municipal Court in Crikvenica, that he will unfortunately have to go to the County Court in Rijeka and that in Lika-Senj County he will have nothing to do with the centre of his county like Gospić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also seems to me that the criteria by which it was very narrowly liked at the Ogulin Municipal Court, I don't see the arguments, I don't know what kind of those who can justify Vrbovska being associated with Ogulin. Since you know very well that in these few years in the Municipal Court in Delnice, very much has been invested, that the Municipal Court in Delnice and closer to Ogulin for Vrbovska, that behind that when they are attached to the municipal court in Ogulin, they will have to go to the County Court in Karlovac, and then somehow here it is ill written or it does not seem logical to me that, for example, the County Court in Karlovac is for the area of the Municipal Court in Karlovac and Ogulin, the Municipal Court in Ogulin for the municipality of Josipdol, Plaški, Saborsko,... and the cities of Ogulin and Vrbovska. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also the Municipality court in Karlovec that I do not list all other cities, including Ogulin. It is obvious that you yourself do not trust that court in Ogulin when there is jurisdiction attached to the Municipality court in Karlovac, and then the County Court in Karlovac. It would be biased if the Municipal Court in Vrbovska were joined or attached to the Municipal Court of Delnice since there are also personnel there and it is spatially equipped and can receive that number of cases as many as there are in the municipal court, now formerly, so it says here in Vrbovska. So I think that these are some arguments that might need to be considered and appreciated that there really should be as little disagreement in this merger as possible, to be at the end and finally through that analysis that we are probably going to at least get, better and faster justification for all of our residents and not just for some. And here it was, colleague Marija Pejcinović Buric said that in France, of course, I agree with Parliament, the Secretary of Fire was cast out. There is a difference between Parliament of France and our Parliament, because we cannot expose our minister to the baraque fire, because she is not here today. And there's been a lot of talk about whether this mechanical merger is going to get us quality? Will the judges now mechanically merge into a court of quality work? No, I don't. He won't. Those judges who work unfortunately will continue to work well, and those who do not work by joining together will certainly not work better. And that in that second proposal, Mr. Secretary of State, there's a way that somehow you can nom technically try to arrange it, that I'm one of some beginners in my Primorje-Gorski County of this gender equality, to try here, write here, says somewhere, the Minister of Justice also empowers us. There are already two mandates, we have a minister of justice, so somewhere, say that she is a minister of justice and not a minister, that in that way, in some way here we are closer to Europe than we are today. And for the end, it's obvious that in this country, we respect everything, from food, so here we are now witnessing that we have also begun to respect the water polo judge in sports. So if the problem in judges is to import a little bit of European judges who are going to quickly solve what we're left behind, cheaper than this investment that we're going to invest in in these ten years. I think that's a good idea. Let's pay them and let them handle it. Then we'll be able to handle these dishes slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6398	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6399	A colleague! I agree with all of you what you said, except in this last one, that if we introduced a European judge to solve the cases here. And a European judge would become an unscheduled and inefficient judge if he came to our terms. And instead of us exploring solutions and offering them, right here, and now we've heard already and saying that in many cases of this god-awful merger of vessels, only a change of record will happen, a change of tables to make it clear to everyone. But you've done well in a court of law. But it's mostly with all these smaller courts that this whole last couple of years have been redecorated, repaired, they've been old, abandoned buildings. All of these included many and active units of local self-government, which was made possible by law in particular. And in this way, there were absolutely conditions for these courts to become up-to-date. Not only did these courts become up-to-date, but for all the measures that have been carried out for years, the results in these smaller courts came first. So what do we do now? So, the state's money was spent on their arrangements, and now we're gonna move those judges and the entire staff to inadequate spaces. Here's an example of what's going to happen and of moving many smaller courts to larger courts where judges have no place to sit in these larger places. So these effective judges here will become inefficient judges. And people have already been so satisfied in these smaller courts, that we do not now list these other reasons that I have just cited which will gather the trial of people, because other than travel and these costs of moving, and the court's exit and the obvious team to the scene of the dispute, which is mainly about land matters, the establishment of property rights, is mostly the nature of such affairs. And it is absolutely incorrect to specialize in courts to achieve in large courts. Specialization of courts is achieved in small courts. Look, all the leading lawyers of Croatia and the deceased and living their practice have been raised in smaller courts. Well, you can't be tried for property if you don't know how to disturb the property, so I don't count the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6400	Thank you. Luke Denon's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6401	Thank you, colleagues. Obviously, I was wrong about this judge import. Maybe, here I am correcting, so let's get the criminals out of here so our export balance increases and leave the judges alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6402	Another replica, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague in that part when he says it on more than one occasion, and he says with certainty that the courts will not function better with this proposal, it won't improve the organisation of work, they'll simply do worse than everything else is planned. This proposal will indeed create basic preconditions for courts to function better in all of these segments that we have so far been justified to hear in terms of and the very reasons of individual legal institutes. For example, specialization. I can't agree with you either, the specialization of judges, I can't agree with you or with my dear colleague when he says that just the small courts where, to a greater or less extent, the judges have been properly specialised, and that specifically means that the judges have been in a position to deal with the same kind of case-like fact-finding substrates so that they can do the same things faster, more effectively, better, more effectively. If it's a specialization, and I think it is, then it's precisely these proposals, so by unifying and the possibility of deploying objects, that's exactly what makes things better. Then, I'm going to mention it again in this replica. It really isn't about abolishing courts and a respected colleague then your mention of certain units of local self-government and my Senj, Novalja or some units of local self-government you mentioned then there is indeed one politically incorrect omen in a way that in one of the problems that we solve and relating to the judiciary you actually want to make a cheap political point, which is certainly your right, but to those people and people on the ground I am telling in terms of this replica the next. The reform of the judiciary in this segment will certainly go. This is the law in first reading. It will be seen after reading all the arguments that make the network of courts itself and in that area... In the best possible way. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6404	Thanks, buddy. Mr. Luke Denon's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6405	Yes, I wonder how you can safely say that this mechanical merger will really contribute to making judicial reform more effective and more quality and faster justice available to everyone. I don't know where you got that right, how do you know that. I'm just saying that but listening and hearing you say that the secretary of state has an analysis, I didn't by heart say, for Ogulin, there's an analysis of some people who understand it, and not me, where it's claimed that the Oguline Municipal Court isn't teamed up, that there's a bad judge unlike the Delnice delinquent court where there's good judges and where the cases have been dealt with properly, where the building is arranged adequately, where there's room for judges from Vrbovski and that's where I'm trying to say that there's a bit of illogicality here that could be corrected. And it's also in the same unit of local self-government and administration as the Primorska County where there's no need for citizens to travel longer to Ogulin, so to Karlovac when they're closer to Delnica and Rijeka, especially now that the second tape of the highway is ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6406	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6407	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'd correct an incorrect quote. Later in the debate, I'll talk a little bit about the court in Vrbovska, but I'd say colleague Denoni. He's still speaking wrong here. It is not correct to talk about distance because the distance in the direction of Ogulin and Delnica is really a big difference from the seat of the courts as it says 36 kilometers or in the direction of Ogulin is 16 kilometers. I would also point out that the court of the 1980s came from the Ogulin Court, meaning when it was formed then in Vrbovska and of course it is very important, as Mr. Secretary of State now said, that it will not be felt on people or on trips. So this proposal is, however, when the talks were being held by professional people because I was involved and then there was a talk and about which court to join that opinion to the public is most of the part, I don't know where you get that opinion from, that it's going in the direction of Ogulin. I don't know, I had a different opinion, I heard other opinions, and I heard a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6408	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6409	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of this law is, in any case, to reorganise the judicial administration, not as many courts as the judicial administrations, but also to specialize judges. It is indisputable that, regardless of the difference of opinion, by joining the courts, we get the opportunity for judges to specialize in areas and, of course, specialised judges are faster in deciding and studying certain cases and thus achieve efficiency. However, these measures are also designed to improve the technical and indirect technical conditions or the technical equipment of the courts. Given that the first reading is and since this system is provided for in this Law on Court Areas, I would give a few suggestions for otherwise these other regulations governing the area of trial, so I think it would be good to consider in terms of a more efficient and quality trial and that judges are not appointed permanently and for life in one court, but to be appointed judge but to be able to deploy them according to the needs of the cases that exist on the ground. Thus, a specialised judge who has been able to come to an area where a number of professional cases have accumulated, thus solving effectively, quickly, without special training, something similar to what top surgeons do when technical conditions are created in areas where, under technical conditions, he would go around the field and handle special cases and could in any case contribute to the efficiency of the judiciary. Of course, since I come from the area of local jurisdiction of one of the courts that has been abolished and which has already been mentioned several times today, and this is the court in Prelog, I must point out what is important and what has been pointed out but I would especially like to point out that it was founded in 1850 a year after Ban Jelačić, in '850, came and joined Međimurje and practically established the rule of Croatia in Međimurje, and thus brought the first court into the Prelog. And then, of course, historically he developed in various ways until the end of '63, until the awakening of '99. I would like to point out that the Prelogous area currently developed in that area was the most painful. And that, by chance or not, after the court arrived, practically and the economy started, property legal relations improved significantly, the garnery with its apparatus obviously contributed to that and that is the area that has the highest employment rate. And we're sure that in the next two years, there won't be an unemployed person around here anymore. Therefore, an injection should also be given in support of the administration which otherwise works there and which has developed on the basis of that court, such as the social care centre, the cadastre, the police administration, etc., etc. So my proposal would actually be on track for the first one since we're not losing anything. In the second reading of the proposal, it seems that in Međimurje with 120 thousand inhabitants will be divided by local jurisdiction in half and not like now Čakovec, there is a right to 15 judges, while then the Prelog is not enough. So if we deploy these 15 to two, we can get two solid courts in which we could work on pleasure and the locals and those who have even given 50 km away, so the area that includes the Court of Prelog is more than 50 km away from Čakovec himself and the centre where the court is scheduled. And even if that is not possible then the minimum minimum would also be to introduce the Court of Justice of the Prelogs into those courts that will be joined by 2019 and not immediately at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6410	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6411	Well, my colleague Ivkovic, I only hope the secretary of state didn't hear and he didn't take your proposal seriously about visiting judges who would first specialize in a particular area and then, as such, judge in different courts in such and related cases. Well, look, they're not the judges of the merchants, so what would it look like if there was a debate in the Box at 9 o'clock, and then he went to Pazin, and then at 12 o'clock in Crikvenica to judge in a related case. Well, look, I'm just hoping that this proposal of yours won't be taken seriously by the secretary of state. When it comes, when it comes to whether or not something is being lifted or connected. So beware, if the Court in Senj joins the Municipal Court in Crikvenica, will they then be joined in Senj? He won't! He won't! So the court in Senj is lifted. No, they won't, there won't be a court. At all, with this merger, you know you should try to connect comfortably with a useful one. And with this proposal of yours, I think it's embarrassing to connect with the useless. What's gonna be awkward? Uncomfortable will be for judges who now, who are now judging in Senj, will have to move to another city, will be uncomfortable for the parties, because they too will have to travel further than they travel today. And uselessly, it is useless that this will not help the judiciary, nor will the number of cases be reduced, nor will the quality of the judiciary increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6412	Thank you. Mr. Ivkovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6413	The fellow Stazic obviously didn't think before to achieve the efficiency of the judiciary in reality, so let him think about this proposal a little more seriously, it doesn't have to be every hour, but it can be every month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6414	It's Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6415	My colleagues and colleagues, all of us here, from this debate we are clearly in agreement in one, that judicial reform cannot be based solely on the suspensions or mergers of courts, especially those that work well. An example. All Zagorje courts are in line with more effective and up-to-date courts in the Republic of Croatia, there are no significant number of delays or ineffectiveness problems. And yet half of them, three out of six, the suburbs, the Klanec and the Lower Stubica are abolished. So, despite having good personnel, good business organization and efficiency, we still end them. Is the abolition of courts, or merger, since that's what the government is trying to say because it sounds better, is the abolition of courts supposed to be the first strategic state measure to begin to improve the situation in the judiciary. So that they're going to fix it, is it supposed to start with cuts that are painful for citizens who ask if that's all we know, because if we know why we didn't start with other measures, we're solving whether it's cause or consequence? People want cheap, quick and effective justice, but available. They don't want us to drive them within tens of miles of them to more distant places, with which I have often said they're not even connected by public transportation. And when he gets there, he will see his judge from his place of residence and in which justice has been shared over a century, who has moved to another building, to another place, only a court case has walked. And he created the new rage of our citizen because he lost more time and nerve and money. And the job may have been lost by a public notary who worked in a place where the court was abolished. Because without a court of law, it's hard to survive. The Croatian People's Party considers it necessary to implement a series of emergency measures and more urgent measures in the judiciary in order to make it more effective. These measures must also be of human nature and normative nature. These measures are of paramount importance in the application measures, as only judicial officials can truly reform the judiciary. The personnel are the beginning and end of every reform because of the quality of the staff, there is no quality justice. In the judiciary, as well as in the administration, entrepreneurship should imitate criteria from the competition, promote the most successful and eliminate the failures. The principle is the same. In order to eliminate the incapacitated and promote the incompetent from the judiciary, it is necessary to amend the Law on regular courts and the Law on the Court of Justice and to introduce these amendments to the mechanisms of monitoring and establishing objective criteria for the work of judges which would be the basis for the appointment of judges to several courts, but also for the resolution of those who do not satisfy their quality and quantity of work. Of course, it will be necessary to redefine the framework criteria for the work of judges – the minimum number of resolved cases, the minimum acceptable number of abolished cases, the exception to that rule and others. The appeal departments of the county courts and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia would be obliged to assess the quality of judges based on appeal decisions in concrete cases. In the election of judges to a senior court, candidates would be ranked according to objective criteria. So the number of cases solved, the number of items abolished, the number of confirmed cases, the assessment of the work of the Board of Appeals. The President of the Court would be obliged to monitor the results of all judges' work. When he notices information about the inadequacy or insufficient quality of the work of a particular judge, he is required to report it to the State Judicial Council for the purpose of considering his resolution from the judicial post. For example, anyone who has no valid justification such as sickness, maternity, professional training and, for example, for more than 4 months in one year has a number of resolved cases below the lower threshold or the number of cancelled above the upper threshold would have to be declared to the State Judicial Council. We have all realised this we know that the greatest pain of the Croatian judiciary are unsolved cases and the inability to achieve judicial protection within a reasonable time. As urgent normative measures, the Croatian People's Party proposes reforming the litigation procedure, which should significantly limit the court's powers and transfer the burden of evidence to parties in the dispute, organise a concentrated main debate with the inability to propose compensation and evidence, tighten the issue of procedural discipline of particularly professional participants in the process, oblige the court to make judgment within a reasonable time. Further measures should be taken: the delivery of subpoenas through delivery mail where the person invited finds himself, not more towards the headquarters of the company or housing, the introduction of measures to discourage hanging litigation. These measures must also be directed towards a country which is far behind, where a legal obligation should be introduced to approve by the State's attorney of the Republic of Croatia any case involving any ministry. And what we're saying today is that we're doing rationalizing the network of courts and the immediate abolition of only those courts that don't have enough inflows to justify their existence. Those judges should be deployed to the most burdensome neighbouring courts. Gruntovnica. Gruntovnica is a real estate register. As there is a register of cars, vessels, etc. which are carried out in the administrative bodies. The merger of grantovnica and catastra, and the establishment of a special independent service of grantovnica and catastra, while further informing land books, could greatly increase the efficiency of the work of land books as an important element in the judiciary. The establishment of specialised labour law courts in order to effectively protect the most vulnerable category of the competition, i.e. the court game of workers, in a special shortened procedure. The administrative authorities should be able to resolve any infringements of their jurisdiction in the first and second stages. Criminal courts should extend jurisdiction over socially less dangerous offences for which fines or prison sentences are intended for up to one year. These courts would be judged by a special, accelerated procedure, and they could also become courts for disputes of small property values where they would be judged by an accelerated procedure for each dispute to say I do not know 30000 kuna. These small procedures take almost as much time as judges, technically, for a dispute of several thousand kunas spent almost the same time as for some much larger property dispute. Here are these or suggestions from the Croatian People's Party that I would like to see and discuss, and not primarily not and first, which we are drawing on ourselves the anger of dissatisfied citizens who lose their acquired rights, and the judiciary does not solve their pains.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6416	Thank you. We have one replica. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6417	I think this is really the core of the problem and this is what it should be about, these aren't just the kind of hints a colleague was talking about. This should be a national consensus if we really want judicial reform. Let's let the buildings go. Buildings come at the end, or buildings should be constantly renovated. But by building, is one judge working in one building or working in another building. It's not a reform! Especially from a building where there is such a condition, it moves to a building where judges don't even know each other, in which the court is a large mastodont, where he won't even have a chair. And the real problem is what my colleague says, and what I have pointed out for myself is that objective criteria are introduced first and foremost, which is more objective than just promoting justice, and also elimination and strengthening procedural discipline. This has all been made possible by a significant PPP novel, as it is obvious that this is not being implemented. We should all consider together what these are, what difficulties are and why this CAP is not being implemented, that is, how it needs to be updated in this sense, in order for a colleague to change what he was talking about in order for this procedural discipline to be the same as the legislator, that is, how we have adopted such standards. And something else that's worrying. So, as we discuss today the reduction of courts, the government is seriously considering. It is already being cooked to create a new court between the county as a new instance between the county courts and the Supreme Court. The appeal court that the idea never seems to have completely died, and that is then absolutely shows that it does not know the left hand what the right hand is doing and vice versa and that is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6418	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6419	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Among the 42 municipal courts scheduled for accession is the court in my Vrgorec, so it is proposed to join the Municipal Court in Metkovic. We in Vrgorec make it inappropriate. I'll give you some indicators. First of all, I will start with that traditional as well as former colleagues and colleagues who have been exposed, which is that this court was founded in 1855 as the Imperial Court and it acts as such until today. What is also very significant for us as a small town is that it is the first city in the modern Republic of Croatia and the independent Republic of Croatia in which a brand new court building was built in 1996, and it has 608 m2 of absolutely fully decorated court, i.e. the space intended for the court to act clearly in Vrgorec. Furthermore, compared to the town of Metković, many of our settlements such as Duge Njive, Vlaka, Zavojana, Dragljana, Kozica, Rascana, Mejaca, Žlibina and Poljica are over 60 kilometers away, not all but one part, some even 70. These areas are mostly situated in the hillous area, so one traffic isolation, i.e. the lack of public transport, is another unfavourable environment for them. The town of Metkovic is also for us and the other county, so that's another problem. It would also be difficult for the court from Metkovic's headquarters to approach the Vrgorac area because the number of court disputes in this area is too heavy for real estate where therefore necessary judicial commissions, field art, etc. So both would be unfavourable. So mostly what I'd like to say is also related to the number of items received that are not small and significant, it's moving towards the data that I'm familiar with around a thousand and 500. There, then, clearly counts should also be made for different testimony certificates, etc. and we also have these catastrian municipalities that are quite large, one of the largest of the Dusins for which no land book has been established at all, and that may provide one justification for the further existence of that court. And we from the local administration, I as mayor there will suggest the following, and that is to satisfy that one minimum, and that is that the municipal court is adapted already when it goes towards the docking, where it is more rational for us, and that is the city of Makarska. So we're closer and more oriented towards it, and even most of the Macarans are originally up from our hills of vervain trees, so maybe that gives one even more favourable circumstance to attach to it. By proposing as I hear it will be, that the Court of Justice in Vrgorec, because it has all the conditions except that there are not enough judges, so two of them are, being the Court of Justice in Makarska, its department, that there are office days which would in any case satisfy the needs of citizens that they do not have to travel clearly in certain directions and also satisfy what we all really want, and that is the even development of all our regions. That's probably for me and for my judgment, we're gonna stop further eviction. People must have institutions that are necessary for life. Because what matters in all this is the life and daily communication and needs of citizens. I would also suggest that the Municipal Court enter Vrgorec in the second phase of the reform, which means by 2019, and that some newly established courts that were founded a few years ago were set off in this first phase. There are those in the county anyway. I will personally vote in favour of this proposal, because I still believe that national interests are ahead of these local interests, presupposing that this is only the first pillar of this reform and I believe that this reform will still contribute to a more effective judiciary and that justice will actually be faster and more accessible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6420	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6421	I have to admit to my colleague Matkovic that I don't understand you. You say you will vote in favour of this proposal because it means reform, and your whole debate was in the direction that no court should be joined at Vrgorec Court in Metkovic and for that you made very good arguments. The Em court in Vrgorec is restored, em is large, em is teamed up, em some settlements if they move to Metkovic to be 60 kilometers away from that court and all of your arguments. We have heard here about the courts in Djurdjevac who are moving to Koprivnica and the court in the Pregrad, who are then moving to Krapina and now we have here a whole series of courts worth similar arguments that should actually not be attached anywhere and that they should not be abolished but should remain as it is, and when they eventually reduce the number of files to think about it when in five, six, ten years if that happens. Because you see, your entire debate points to the essence of the problem. There's no criteria here. There's no criteria. There are no valid reasons why this is done. There isn't. But someone said there's too many municipal courts out of Europe, let's cut it down now. How? Why? With some logic? This is done without logic, without justification. Look, that's where those courts that have a small number of pending cases are combined or have no pending cases. And why don't they have them? Well, because they're high-quality. So tell me, wouldn't it make sense to move the files instead of the judges? So if a court has too many files that can't be solved, it's simpler to transfer those files to this other smaller court, so let the judges who have nothing to do with it if it's true they have nothing to do but move judges. Well, then we'd have achieved some purpose. Because beware of this purpose will not be achieved except that your people from those places around Vrgorec will now have to go 60 kilometers to Metkovic. That's what it's going to be, that's the only purpose. But I'm surprised to you that despite the arguments you've made, you say you'll support what you disagree with. Here's what I really can't understand, it's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6422	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6423	Dear colleague Stazić, thank you for letting us say some of the support you are trying to give me in this justification for our content that I have presented here regarding the existence of the court in Vrgorec. But I don't expect you to understand me in this second part, do you, obviously, did not follow closely what I wanted to say? I said that we are inadequately attached to the court in Metkovic, but I did not say that we are inadequately attached to the court in Makarska. So we'll accept that. That's one thing. And secondly, the people down on the ground that I live with every day, understand the needs and know that there are also I said before, the national interests that court before our locals. And we believe that political responsibility is not easy to take over. And these are changes that didn't just come to one's mind. So, they are necessary and we will support them, and I hope that the proposings will understand and that we will find a common solution that will be satisfactory for all of us. And I said, it's satisfying for us, in this part of it, to be a facility where it's closest to us, and that's Makarska, when it's already going, is it, and when we understand that these are needs without which we can't, or reform, which is just like the first pillar as such. Now that would be what I wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6424	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the bill of law is an expression of part of judicial reform. We've got a record of the situation, we've got a problem, and we've got an attempt to solve this problem. We can see from the footage that we have means 107 municipal courts that vary in size, by number of employees and by number of inflows of objects. Looking at Europe, other European countries, the Republic of Croatia is among the countries with the highest number of courts, judges, administrative staff and court cases. In this regard, on average by judge, the municipal judge comes annually, on average 200 criminal cases, 600 litigation cases, 700 extraparate cases and 900 executive cases. So there's a problem. And the problem is too large and inadequate a number of courts that are not effective and create great lags. Of course, it requires huge financial resources for their work and maintenance. Croatian citizens lost confidence in the judiciary because of their ineffectiveness, but also corruption. Therefore, the reform is obviously necessary and it is moving towards certain solutions, there are many objections to this selected model of reform that we have seen in today's discussion. The proposal for this law has also sparked resistance in local communities, which means they will be left without their courts. I'm not saying cancelling. I'm saying hooking up. The conditions for the docking of vessels are known. That is, the criteria are at least 5 judges or inflows of cases for at least 5 judges. Then the distance of the courts up to 50 km or the number of inhabitants, the density of the population in the area of jurisdiction. In Dubrovnik-Neretva County we have seen that there is actually a court accession from Ploč and the court from Metkovic, a pardon from Vrgorec, which Mr Matkovic mentioned, the court in Metkovic. Mr. Matkovic said as far as Vrgorec himself is concerned, there is a tradition and a new building and a distance that is 30 kilometers away, but remote villages in Vrgorec cross that quota, or that criterion 50 kilometers away. Transport isolation, etc. Also in Ploča it is not as long a tradition as in Vrgorec, but there is still some 30-year tradition, and finally the needs of the residents of this city for a quick and effective trial. What remains of the citizens was told by Mr. Shakespeare in his opening part, or in the name of the club, that he remains conscious, faith and hope for swift justice. The burden of this reform will also be borne by judges who will have to travel from place of residence to place of work, citizens of course who will have to travel at a greater distance to do the work they have done so far in either Vrgorec or Plots. And the loose objects remain. They're walking. Rationalization. Many believe that rationalising the merger of courts is essential in cases where small courts are brought together with one or two judges, so courts are confined to jurisdiction, where cases cannot actually be conducted in criminal cases in which they are tried in the Council. Such vessels are certainly not effective because of the costs of the entire apparatus. And in other courts full of jurisdiction, it would be necessary to implement a reorganisation. Therefore, rationalization in itself, I believe that you will not bring the efficiency of the court. Maybe they're just cutting some costs. Rationalisation should be carried out in other ways. By adopting effective legal regulations, the education of judges, information, etc. The third complaint refers to the choice of courts to abolish the number of judges, the geographical distance, not the efficiency of the court and the number of cases solved. So you're looking at the quantum instead of quality. Furthermore, many believe that a more detailed analysis should be carried out prior to the abolition of certain courts and the resolution of cases that should even be reached in a municipal court or in municipal courts, many cases for which a different mechanism exists are resolved. It is very difficult to speak in advance, to predict the success of any reform. However, it is important to take into account the opinions of the judges and staff of course to which the reform applies, as well as the citizens. The current situation shows that there is resistance to the way in which rationalisation is carried out, and of course there is no challenge to the necessity of reform, but the question of approach is stressed. And in the last term, it tried a kind of reform, a merger of municipal, misdemeanor courts, which proved to be a problem, and the project was infamously completed, also mentioned by counterpart Ingrid. Many believe that this law will not address at least efficiency, but rather that the law is designed to form, meet European criteria, and that it does not contain a constructive solution. And our friends from Brussels expect news on judicial reform since the Republic of Croatia has a poor judicial rating. The Republic of Croatia is expected to create an effective, modern, rational judiciary and our citizens expect it. What can I expect from this, what can I get at the very least? I can get offices, I can get facades, buildings, and certainly not an effective judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6426	Thank you. Let's move on. Honorable representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6427	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, state secretaries and respected associates. The availability of justice and justice does not mean that our courts must be at the doorstep, but that the judiciary must be swift and effective and therefore more just. That thesis was recognized by the ancient Roman lawyers, saying that such a fast giver doubles because the justice on which ten, fifteen, or more years can not be called that. I think I should say and stress that the judiciary and justice must be equal throughout the Republic of Croatia, as the laws we bring to this House are equal for all of Croatia and for all of its citizens and citizens. Of course, I understand and find the Buzecans and Rovinjeze and Vrgorčana and understand their concerns about the abolition or merger of their municipal courts. However, I do not want to speak here in this direction because I do not think that every municipality or city in Croatia must have its own court but I believe that when these courts are finally equipped, we inform them, we train the people to work in them quickly and effectively, which will ultimately lead to their work guaranteeing fair trials and thus the equal availability of justice to all our citizens. I think it's primarily a national interest that someone here has called in previous discussions. Small courts in which one or two judges judge both criminal and litigious, and executive, and non-partisan cases cannot guarantee justice. Since no one can do hundreds of different things at the same time, each of them can do just as well. That is why I am looking for the reasons and incentives of this rationalisation of the network of courts, but I believe that it is too late and that it has not been implemented by some clear criteria until the end. I am afraid that this law, which calls for some major reform, will only attach this law to the epithet of reform and that of false reforms that will again come to light on the already repeated thesis of changing the board from the front of the courts. Because how else do you explain the fact that when the borders of county courts do not follow the borders of the county, was it really necessary to leave one county court in each county? Maybe that doesn't sound good. Here, a colleague from Međimurje County says that one municipal court remains, and another is the County Court also in Čakovec for only one municipal court, while, for example, seven municipal courts remain in Istria and one county court for, say, a double number of residents, as long as we compare Međimurska and Krapina-Zagorje County, which have approximately equal population to one county court, three municipal courts remain. Therefore, I do not fully understand what criteria we are referring to. Small county courts lead to the feudalisation of the judiciary and the inability to set up departments in these courts that could really be quality-playing individual issues that arise in the work of the court. And yet, where we call upon ourselves and to what criteria. Among other things, the problem of this bill is the list of courts so-called. constricted jurisdiction. Namely, the list of these courts has been drastically reduced although it is not clear that in Croatia and after this rationalisation, there will remain a whole series of courts that have not been teamed up since 1 October 2008 they will be tried in cases that have never worked before. It's about courts with fewer than five judges, so when a judge gets sick, for example, that court can't hold a session of an extrajudicial council. We are here talking about abolishing the rationalization of the work of courts or mergers, and then by this law we are spreading some of them competences. It is therefore necessary to take due account of the proposed decision of the courts of consensual jurisdiction and to return to some previous solutions by making it clear in the transitional and final provisions of this law that this law applies from 1 October of this year and that it puts aside the earlier Law on the Areas and Jurisdictions of the Courts, and that the courts whose abolition we are proposing today will, by the time they are actually abolished, have to judge all criminal cases in the jurisdiction of municipal courts. It is therefore necessary to work very hard on this law so that instead of some innovative idea, we will only get the bad realization of what seems to be quite the prospect of this proposal. And yet, it seems to me that we are repeating the same mistakes over and over again, repairing and embellishing some official figures so that someone might like them more and calling reforms what fundamental reforms aren't because our judicial system lacks speed and efficiency, and that's the most important thing for our citizens. I am convinced that this proposal will not improve that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6428	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6429	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to rephrase to my colleague and the distinguished representative who opened her exhibits and said, "Who gives doubles quickly.". In fact, we had a case in the Croatian judiciary, so we had a court, I mean the Municipal Court in Supetar. We had and we have a building and one of the most beautiful, so don't insult your colleagues and others from the Brač stone. The court will continue to remain but we had judges and judges who judged quickly and gave not double but multiple and most often gave what did not belong to those they gave. That's why they're not the real topics of table, seat, titles, laws and people, and until the right people start implementing the right laws, we're not going to make a step in reform because what we're discussing today is not a step but just a figure or a spin in a circle. However, even when we are spinning in circles, we can accidentally stop by looking in the right direction. And as much happens to this government by chance and to the pressure of Europe I, for the sake of Croatia's well-being, want this time to happen that in this rotation we are still going in the right direction to make reform right and to get closer to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6430	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Honored representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6431	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on areas and courts, which implements the rationalisation of the network of courts as part of the judicial reform, means that according to the criteria to attach or abolish courts with less than five judges and those within a distance of 50 kilometers of each other, it is in fact evident that it is meant by these criteria that are prescribed here and I will talk about the situation in Virovitica-Podravska County that these criteria really did not respect. Namely, the proposed bill suggests that the Municipal Court in Slatina and the Municipality Court in Pitomaca join the Municipality Court in Virovitica and the Orahovica Municipal Court to join the Municipality Court in Nasice. So, it would be a question of joining the Orahovica Municipal Court, which falls within the area of Virovitica-Podravska County, and that court should be attached to the Municipality Court of Nasice, located in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. I must say that out of the total four means municipal court in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County, Virovitica se, Virovitica Court with 8 judges, Slatina who has six judges. It shows here that the criteria were up to five judges and Pitomaca and Orahovica, who have three, three judges, in a new network of courts, only the Municipal Court of Virovitica is foreseen. I consider the four courts mentioned,... The municipality court in Virovitica, there is no reason to abolish the municipality court in Slatina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll tell you what's going on. In light of the fact that in the Slatini Municipal Court it means six judges, there is, in addition to these six judges, a judicial advisor who should soon have the status of judge. Given the fact that it is the inflow of cases in that court, and its centuries-old tradition. There is no provision anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for the abolition of courts with the same number of judges and inflows of cases. Only in one more case is the suspension of the court with six judges and it is the Municipal Court in Ivanac. With the inflow of the case to that municipal court far less than the inflow of the case at the Municipal Court in Slatina. On the other hand, in a total of 57 courts, which according to the rationalisation plan should form a new network of municipal courts, I don't count courts on islands here. One third has a smaller or equal number of judges, and a smaller or equal inflow of cases as has a municipal court in Slatina. For the sake of comparison, I will only give information to the Municipality Court in Nasice which means according to the rationalisation proposal should continue to remain in relation to the meaning of the Municipal Court in Slatina and this data for 2006. So the District Court in Nasice has five judges. In 2006, there are 417 litigatory cases 1092 executive cases, 409 extra-paris cases and I am not counting any further. The municipal court in Slatina, as I said, has 6 judges, had 617 litigation cases, 2513 executive cases, 96 leftovers, and extraparate cases in total 548. It is evident that the Municipal Court in Slatina has a number of judges, and a double number of cases from the Municipality Court in Nasice, from which it is visible, I would like to point out once again that the criteria under which this rationalisation was allegedly carried out in the Republic of Croatia are not respected. Or perhaps it was the criterion that came from the town of Nasic, and as far as we all know, Minister Roncevic is coming. Is it, to be a little cynical? The reason for the stay of the Municipal Court in Slatina lies in the fact that the details of the Orahovica Municipal Court which should also be abolished or attached would significantly increase both the inflow of cases and the number of judges at the Municipal Court in Slatina. And I don't have to speak specifically about what would be the financial consequences of abolishing the Community court in Slatina because we know it's a court with a large scale of cases and a larger number of judges. And if that court were to move to the Municipality Court of Virovitica, then there would have to be a building of the same size as the municipality court building in Virovitica. It is, therefore, a solution to which the municipal court, there is something else, meaning the municipal court in Orahovica, which should be attached to the Municipality court in Nasice. It is therefore a solution under which the municipal court, whose local jurisdiction is affecting the area of a county,... Connect to court with headquarters in another county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I don't even object to that, in principle, to this proposal, I believe there are no valid reasons for that. And I'll tell you why. Namely, Nashice is not an administrative centre in relation to the area, the current jurisdiction of the Orahovica Municipal Court, and for any other reason this area does not engraving towards Nasice. Slatine is finally almost nothing or more distant than Nash. For all these reasons, I propose that in the nationalisation of the network of municipal courts in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County, the municipal court in Orahovica stands with the municipal court in Slatina as a future municipal court in Slatina and the municipality court in Pitomaca with a municipal court in Virovitica as a future municipal court in Virovitica. It would therefore be two courts of equal size with ten judges who would also meet the criteria of distance from other municipal courts. Finally, if this legislative proposal we received here was not given up in the parliamentary procedure, I am afraid that the existence and existence of the Verovite County Court in Virovitica is questionable because the Verovitica County Court would only have the municipal court in Virovitica under jurisdiction. That is why I am asking and appeal, the proponent of this legislative proposal to respect these arguments that I have made. Because I really believe that the municipal court in Slatina is necessary and that it should stay, meets all the criteria prescribed by this bill. And I think it's unsustainable to be a municipal court in Orahovica, meaning a court in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County joins a court in Nasice that has, I said, fewer judges and fewer inflows of cases than the municipality court in Slatina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6432	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6433	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. On the basis of the Law of 21 November 1874, the Order of the Royal Croatian Slavonical Department of Justice was issued from 14 February 1875, which established the Court of Justice in Đurđevec. Now, the draft law of 20 March 2008 suggests that the Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore, after these many years, the Court of Justice in Đurđevec is abolished. Since I am not familiar with the reasons and criteria of this Law, I will, according to some of the supposed criteria, present a whole series of arguments why we believe that this decision should be changed by the second reading to the law, as it says in the law, and, unlike what it says in the reasoning, leave the text of the law, he says that the General Court in Djurdjevac will remain for the five units of local self-government. At the end of 2007, 252 cases remained unresolved in the Municipal Court in Djurdjevac. Of which 82 litigious, 37 criminal, 78 executive and 8 non-partisan cases. A total of 2113 items have been solved. I can tell you again what the structure of the object is. In the municipal court’s land and book department in Đurđevec, 3314 land-book cases were received and 3254 cases were resolved and only 81 cases remained unsolved during 2007. At the same time, a 16 thousand 801 land-book excerpt was issued during 2007. And emergency land-book items are resolved within 24 hours. As far as duty is concerned, it is evident that 5 judges, as many as there are including the President of the Court during 2007 dealt with an average of 320 cases. This type of case is possible because the judges are between '85. And '88. The average of 1000 cases per year have been dealt with, and the burden of judges or unsolved cases has decreased significantly, and they have come to the conclusion today that they can really solve virtually everything that is the inflow, and about the rate of urgency is 1:1.5 per month inflows per judge. From the '98 stats. By 2007, a total of 24500 items or an average of 2450 items per year were visible. This year, however, it is evident that by March 15th, the inflow of litigation cases is 17% higher or is assumed to be 20% higher this year than it was in 2007. As regards the duration of the proceedings, of course, since it is one of the five most urgent courts in the Republic of Croatia, the procedure is very short and there are almost no cases older than three years, i.e. only 14 cases older than 3 years where the problem of duration is only or almost exclusively in the inability to deliver a court mail. According to the number of judges employed at the District Court in Djurđevec, I have already mentioned the '95 Justice Department's decision. The year is said to be eight judges. Today, 5 judges were employed there, 3 judges are not employed because there was no agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the same decision could employ 39 officials and four tenants. Today, 27 employees and 4 tenants were employed, which means 12 employees were also not employed, because otherwise, in the continental part, they were not all employed, and so were they. So we could have had 12 more employees than we have. As far as the material conditions are concerned, the building was built in '58. the year where the old district court building was in 1875. So, when the court was established, the building was built. The building was thoroughly renovated in 2001. In 2002, a facade was arranged. In 2003, some internal work was done. In 2005, the entrance portal was arranged. In 2006, gas furnaces and central heating were replaced, and in 2007 it began with the information of the court in Đurđevec. And the court in Đurđevec, therefore the building completely, almost ideally in conditions other than the completion of the information, corresponds to what should be the ideal conditions for the work of the judge. The inflow of objects according to framework criteria is something that is relevant data and criteria for this. So, according to what the Ministry of Justice made last year, it took 5.44 judges to get rid of those cases that were solved at the District Court in Djurdjevac. I would like to remind you that there are 5 judges in the Municipal Court in Đurđevec, which should be kept in mind that in 2006 and 2007, there was the establishment of a new land book in the Podravski Sesveda where, for the two years, a judge was almost committed only to the creation of a new land book, where 5603 new cadastral particles were formed, which were distributed in 1754 z.k. cartridge. Which means that de facto 4 judges dealt with or solved cases according to the Ministry of Justice's criteria that were to be done by 5 and a half judges. As far as the court's distance is concerned. So, if this is left, the citizens of Kloštr Podravski, Ferdinandovci and Podravski Sesveda should go over 50 km to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica. Therefore, this argument is also contrary to this existing proposal. It is also the opposite number of inhabitants and population density, since the area of the Municipal Court in Đurđevec includes the area of Đurđevci Podravina where more than 30,000 inhabitants live, and I think it should also remain in Đurđevec. These are just some of the arguments that we assume the Ministry should have kept in mind when it passed the bill that the Municipal Court in Đurđevec belongs to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, and I would like to say that the Municipal Court in Koprivnica does not have adequate working conditions, neither for its own work, let alone to join. Since the municipal court in Koprivnica is a county court, they share part of the space. The mayoral court is in the subunity of the county. The misdemeanor court is in the sub-unity of the town of Koprivnica. The County State's Attorney's Office works in the premises rented by one company. Therefore, there are no spatial conditions for the Municipal Court to be attached, from Djurjevac to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica. Because somewhere in the mid-1990s there was the establishment of a Municipal Court in Pitomaca when two judges from the Jurdjevac Municipal Court were transferred to the area of the Municipality Court in Pitomaca was rationally abolished by the Community Court in Pitomaca and returned to where he was kidnapped, or where there was a resolution, to return him to the Municipality Court in Djurđevec so that the Municipal Court in Djurđevec would survive. And without that, therefore, according to all the criteria that we were talking about today, the General Court in Djurđevec should survive, unless some other reasons that we do not know about here were the subject of the criteria which should have been satisfied that there was also a court in Koprivnica-Kristevina County. Furthermore, speech on rationality and economics and efficiency on the example of the Đurđevec Municipal Court also falls into the water because the merger of Đurđevec with Koprivnica will increase additional costs. More space should be rented in Koprivnica or a new building should be built. You should pay people travel expenses for coming to Koprivnica. So it's about five judges and 30 deputies. It will be necessary, people will need to pay for their arrival and to go to court in Koprivnica. No one here has spoken, but what will happen to lawyers who work in places where the courts are lifted. Whether they will have a job in the future or they will have to move to the places where the courts are joined. So, first of all, I suggest that for the second reading, the Ministry sets out all the criteria for which such a bill is addressed at all in the procedure, not just the draft law. We do not really have any criteria here so that we can compare what is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6434	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6435	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament I will correct the incorrect statement in which Mr. Mršić stated that the urgency of the Jurjevac Court from 98 until further notice is complete. That's absolutely incorrect, because in 99th year, a municipal court was established in Pitomaca. 1500 cases pass to the Municipal Court in Pitomaca and then the Municipal Court in Djurđevec remains with some 700 and some cases and then remains that up-to-date and on the table which is 5.6 while the municipality court in Pitomaca is working with urgency and 1.7 these years. That's what it says about criteria and standards. Absolutely not in your claims that any justification exists for the survival of a jujube court.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6436	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6437	Thank you very much. Well, an esteemed colleague has said several times that no criteria have been set out in the light of this law as a legal proposal. An esteemed colleague, that's incorrect. The criteria exist, I will briefly repeat them. So that's the number of judges relative to the number of cases, so even the number of judges that is the spatial distance has been placed. But the third criterion that is often forgotten in our discussions is the spatial and other specificities of individual environments in terms of the existing network of courts, with even the right to an exception. So the criteria exist, the criteria are set out in the reasoning of the law on page 2, and whether they should be further explained in terms of the preparation of the law for second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6438	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, he takes the word State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6439	... how can I say merger of courts and a very significant project and that is why it's very good to go in two readings, because all of what we hear here today, of course we're going to further analyze and of course we're going to do all the things that you've shown here, that we're going to watch again if we need to intervene somewhere. [[Specially enabled.]] What I have heard so far is the problem of the vrgorac court whether to connect it with Makarska or Metkovic, Đurđevac whether to survive as a separate court or to attach it to Koprivnica. According to our statistics, he's an up-to-date court and that's not a problem, but the problem is that he has five judges and actually has an inflow of cases for only three. These are statistics that we have and these are statistics that we follow in court, but by each judge individually. We'll do all of this extra of course Senj, and Prelog, all of us will once again come before the second reading on the ground and discuss it with you and re-analyze and come to another reading with one proposal in which we will look to appreciate all of this, of course, what you said. But what I'd still like to underline here once again, that this whole project, this whole project didn't just move the board and change that it's one board now, and then it's another. No, I don't. This is the creation of one more respectable court, one unit within which we will have a larger number of judges, within which we will have a much better management of both officials and tenants and judges. And I have to do it again. Specialization of judges is something that is necessary today. A court that has a president, who has one judge, cannot meet the conditions that are on the market today and in life and that have the needs of our citizens. It is simply impossible for a judge to judge and disturb property and damages and criminal charges, and we must enable judges to specialize. In small courts, this is simply not possible, so we need to integrate them into a larger system. And this where there are enough cases, there will prove justified that in a certain meaning the place where yesterday the court was an independent unit, it will prove justified that there is a certain organisational subjectivity on that ground either through some department. And therefore, judges from a new centre will come to that court, but they will come to the judges as specialists, as competent to handle the case in one criminal case with two, three or four hearings. So that's our goal. Not that we're walking citizens that they're coming to that little court to get his case in 15 or 20 hearings, but we want that case resolved in 3, 4 or 5 hearings at most. And because I already said in the previous presentation, this is not the only measure we're going to present. We are working on an amendment and we are working on a proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Prosecution Procedure, we have a draft new Law on Criminal Procedure where we are about to go in this direction that there is no longer so much delay in the debates and conduct of proceedings, that it can no longer happen in one case at the 12th hearing that someone remembers a witness and says that I think he should show himself in that case. No, I don't. We will go to the subject matter of better quality preparation, to take this debate away in a short time, and then to pass quality judgments. We will also go after that, that there is no delay in second-degree courts. This means that one case in the county court cannot be resolved for how many years and will then return to the retrial, the verdict will be abolished and some first-degree court will re-apply the procedure in which it will determine all the relevant facts in order to pass a legal ruling. We won't tolerate it anymore. If the suspension is then we will say, it must be clear what needs to be done and we will determine that it is within some appropriate time limits. It's one procedure that's highly infavorable by a citizen. It doesn't matter to a citizen how far a forum is from him, is it 10 or 110 kilometers away. It is important for him to protect and realize and exercise his right or interest. That's what's important for a citizen. And this is one of the preconditions to get to it. Because without the courts where we have judges that we can specialize in, we're not gonna get to it because now we have a split. So we have a court of some kind that has one or two judges, a little further the same judgment, and each of us is to say the person to ourselves. He's not communicating with the other guy. We don't use resources. That's what we want to stop. Of course, here has been highlighted and related to a significant problem, and that is the number of unsolved items that are still of course large. However, I would not want the impression to be created if nothing had been done in that segment. Look, four years ago, we had a million and 760 and a few thousand unsolved items. So almost a million and 800. We're on today at 900 grand and some unsolved items. So almost half the unsolved items we managed to reduce. These are not small results and these are not results for underestimating. In this process of rationalisation and merger of courts, I believe that we will also achieve the second effect that we tried four years ago to create a delegation of cases from more loaded courts to less-loaded courts. Such courts, which will also have specialised judges, who will also have better use of all the resources, when the Supreme Court president gives him a number of cases he will be able to solve many more of these cases. And not to say that we're going to get to a number of judges that within those 50 kilometers means that we can send from one court to another court temporarily to solve other cases, and that's where we're also going to achieve certain effects. The second thing I want to say clearly is the question of granting. Because when we look at the fact that we all go to court most often? We all go to real estate courts most often, when we buy something, when we change something about real estate, we come to grantovo, we update that situation, we report that traffic. We're coming for certain certificates regarding impunity and so on. All those other segments where the court works, and that means when we sue someone for damages, when someone gets divorced, when someone's in criminal proceedings. Many people never come to court on such matters. All that matters to the citizens, meaning grantovna where we've done a lot in these past four, five years on digitization, where we've done a lot of things, we're going to leave it open to the citizens, so I can come in, meet all those real estate needs they've had so far. Because such a system does not need to collapse, but digitisation and further information continues. And we'll get to the system when someone who's in Virovitica was mentioned earlier, who's in Virovitica, finds himself somewhere at sea, that they'll be able to get a grant excerpt for their property in Virovitica, but they can get that in a court down at sea. We seek to do so, one such communication. And when we see that we are, as far as the trade court is concerned, that we have introduced one electronic communication between the public notary and the register of the commercial court, we now see where we went and where the actual direction is and for further communication related to the delivery. You today, when you start a company, you come to a public notary who makes all the necessary documents, which makes all the acts in a way that they are electronically recorded and clicked on the enter key, it is found from the public record office in the register of a commercial court. It's something we're going to strive for in other segments, both in the administration and in the judiciary. And that's one way to solve the same painful delivery issue, because delivery, of course, is one really big problem in our judiciary. And here, too, was a good idea that was highlighted about it and that we are very much looking at in the making of a new amendment to the Law of Prosecution. This procedure is and this judicial reform process is quite painful, not easy. The truth is, the laws have long been... The truth is, we're all used to it, that our judges used to judge each other in one way, the laws had changed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we have also established a judicial academy...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6440	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6441	I'm sorry. We have established a judicial academy with our regional centres working on our judges' daily education. And I believe that with this project that has been offered today, the one that will be related to the amendments to the Law on Prosecution that we are very well on track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6442	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6443	Here's a colleague, unfortunately, I still have to correct this quote that I think is exactly what calls for such a need. Namely, when you said and it is incorrect that specialized judges will come to those smaller places, obviously so it will only be then, the board that will only change, and that will no longer be because it will be specialized, will not be difficult with the debates. The facts show that judges who work, say, judges who work in certain disputes, let's say they deal with real law in their large courts have nothing more up-to-date and fewer hearings than judges who judge in smaller places. On the contrary, the judge will now come from Zadar to Benkovac. Well, he's got five years to even agree with these people, who have a specific speech, which the judge in Benkovec understands perfectly. So, they're going to have a communication problem, and we're not talking about real estates where they're laid and so, what just judges who work in these smaller places absolutely know everything. So this argument doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6444	Thank you. At this point, we interrupt the debate and continue at 3:00. The first speaker is Honorary Representative Ivo Grbic. Thank you very much. The first is to continue the debate, the distinguished representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6446	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. I believe it is necessary to approach the process of streamlining the network of courts, in line with the conclusion on the start of the process of rationalising the network of courts within the framework of the CARDS project that is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Since the existing network of courts has proved inefficient and ineconomic. So this proposal establishes 65 municipal courts from 107 municipal courts so far and determines their headquarters. Analysis in the 2002-2003 CARDS project showed that the Republic of Croatia is among one of the European states with the highest number of courts, judges and administrative staff. And if we consider the size of the territory and population. But on the other hand, and with the big court backlogs. The main reasons that point to the urgent need to rationalise the courts refer to the current structure of courts where, in the burden of the judges, it leads to delays in unresolved cases. When drawing up a proposal for the rationalisation of the network of courts, certain criteria for the merger of a network of courts are respected, including the taking of cases received during one calendar year and the number of judges required according to indicative measures, the number of inhabitants, the distance from the nearest court. The additional criteria shall also be taken as a total number of cases solved and pending in court, the number of cases solved on a particular judge, the assessment of the inflow of cases, the assessment of the resolution of old cases, the ratio of the number of judges and other court employees to the inflow of the case and the impact on the urgency of the case. The proposal also provides for trade courts to resolve disputes relating to ships and navigation at sea and inland waters. And the disputes to which the shipping law applies. Furthermore, it is prescribed which municipal courts will handle the case in criminal proceedings, for criminal offences for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for more than 10 years, in civil proceedings on the establishment or dispute of paternity or motherhood, in working relations, in order to correct information and compensation damages caused by the publication of information, protection against illegal activity and the recognition of the execution of decisions by foreign courts. I believe that the rationalisation of the network and courts will contribute to the even burden of judges and court staff with cases, to the speedy resolution of lagging cases, as well as the decision-making within the deadline. Also, a better organisation of work, the possibility of specialising judges, greater flexibility in the work and management of the court and uniform judicial practice will lead to an effective, modern and rational judiciary. I must point out that any rationalisation, including the rationalisation of the network of courts, is a multi-year process that requires the provision of working conditions in the courts' headquarters, to which the courts are joined, and technical equipment is also needed, and therefore it is extremely important that the applicant has foreseen all these elements in the transitional period. It is particularly important to establish permanent services outside the court's seat until a decision on the conditions for the court's work is taken in its seat. Finally, I would suggest that the applicant reconsider the possibility of amending the current proposed Article 11 which says the law enters into force on 1 October 2008. I think it would be more instructive, and I ask that it be reconsidered that the law enters into force on 1 January 2009, given that the calendar year, given that the budget and the rebalancing are being adopted by that month and I think it would be much more financially economical if the law came into force on 1 January 2009. From the very above, I support the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts in First Reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6447	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6448	Well, a colleague says he supports the bill, among other things, supports the abolition of the court in both Obrovec and Benkovac. Well, here's a colleague as much as you said, but maybe here I am, that's why I raised this tile, a replica to see, you well know what the situation in Benkovec is, that it's an up-to-date court, that it's a court for that area, that this court mostly deals with land-based books, real rights, by establishing ownership. So these are items, not some kind of commercial law, not objects among parties, even when it comes to natural persons, in relation to certain special business relations, but rather the right to do so. Is it possible, and do you really think that this could be better done by a traveling judge from Zadar who may not have been, or, if he was, was then only for similar purposes, than that judge who almost failed there, who has been as a counselor there, who has worked there for many years, who almost knows these properties, knows customs, knows people, which are basic and preconditions for a quick trial. After all, that court is one of the most pressing courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6449	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6450	I think you're talking about one court that's not being abolished at all, or even better yet, it doesn't fit. As far as I know, by reading, I don't know where you read it, the Benkovec court is existing, so the Benkovec court doesn't shut down at all. And all the time you've been pointing out and talking about the Benkovec court. It's another thing. I said that I support this proposal in the light of this proposal, and I also said as chairman of the Committee that all the quality suggestions in the second reading of the Government, i.e. the Proposer, will coordinate and enter into this proposal which will come to us as a final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6451	Let's move on with the individual debate, the esteemed representative of Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6452	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we are, in front of us, in the first reading of the draft law on areas and courts' seats. This law therefore belongs to a set of legislative measures set out in the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2008. It proposes to streamline the network of courts in line with the judicial system reform strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 20 September 2005. The strategy also envisions the creation of a system of a network of courts that will be rational, which will not diminish citizens' right to access the court. The rationalisation of the network of courts is proposed by joining courts of the same kind. So, as already said today in Croatia, 107 municipal courts work. Of which 107 municipal, 21 county courts and 13 commercial courts. Such a large network of municipal courts has proved ineffective and overpriced and I believe that we will all or at least agree that there are too many courts in relation to the size of the state and the number of inhabitants. Therefore, this law proposes to establish a total of 65 municipal courts, down from the current situation for 42 courts, and to determine their area and headquarters. As also said, the State Secretary stressed this when setting out this proposal for the rationalisation of the network of municipal courts took into account the burden of certain courts. Therefore, on the number of cases received by type and the number of judges required to resolve these cases during the year, which is precisely defined by framework criteria for the work of judges. It was also taken into account the geographical position of courts, the number of inhabitants and the density of population in a given area, the distance to the nearest court and the traffic connection. Under the proposal of this law, the Minister of Justice is empowered to adopt a regulation laying down the dynamics of the insurance of conditions for the merger of courts. This means ensuring adequate space and equipment in their seats by 31 December 2019 at the latest. It is expected to start first with the merger of courts, with at least the number of judges and the smallest inflow of cases, and courts where the excess of judges is relative to the number of cases. Since I come from Zagreb County, I would also like to take a concrete look at the proposals for the merger of courts from that area. Thus, this law proposes the merger of municipal courts in St. John Zelina and Dug Selo to the Municipal Court in Sesvedi. In proposing this merger according to framework criteria, it has been found that there are more judges in the courts in St. John Zelin and Long Sel than the necessary number. There are four of them, and in order to solve the number of cases received, there are three of them, while there are two judges missing in the Councils. Therefore, if there must already be a merger of these courts, I think it is more acceptable for the citizens of St. John's Zeline to join the court in Sesvedi than for the court in Vrbovac, what was the initiative primarily because of the direction of the citizens of the area towards the city of Zagreb and much better traffic connections. It's a similar situation with a court in Long Village. There, especially, should be taken into account that Long Village monitors intensive settlements and a very large natural population growth. According to the 2001 census, the area of the town of Dugi Sela was 14441 inhabitants. Today, the number has increased to nearly 19,000 inhabitants. So with the belonging municipalities of Rugvica and Brckovljani, the number is climbing to about 34,000 inhabitants in the area. Therefore, these facts should certainly be taken into account. For these reasons in Dugi Selo and Zelini should remain garnery, and the secretary of state said that the ministry would also try to keep it. So go that way. Also, according to the Courts Act, there is the possibility of establishing permanent services or departments as well as setting judgment days outside the court-seat which should also be used in these cases. In the end, I want to say that I am convinced that citizens are more important in quality and speed of judicial protection than if the court is 20 or 10, 15 km closer or further. The length of the proceedings is one of the main reasons for the citizens' perception of the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. Over the long term of court proceedings, one of the fundamental human rights, the right to court, has been compromised, for the court to decide on the right of citizens within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, one of the results of this rationalisation of the network of courts will also be to enable more specialised judges, which will reflect precisely on the quality of the trial but also on the shorter duration of the court proceedings. Moreover, the objectives that are to achieve this rationalisation are a more balanced burden on judges, a more uniform distribution of cases, a faster resolution of lagging cases, a more uniform case-law, and ultimately, regardless of the higher initial costs due to the need to equip courts, will also be achieved by a greater economy or long-term financial savings. So these are the reasons why I'm going to support this bill in my first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6453	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6454	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6455	Please engage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6456	I am from the city, therefore, which is already mentioned here today in the context of cities where according to this proposal the law on areas and courts' seats, so where is the merger of our court in Vrbovska? The court, like many here mentioned, has therefore had its history since the time when there was a judge there in 1875 at the time when it became a trading venue. But of course, it's been a while. The mountain cotter does not usually reduce the number of residents from 50,000 to 25 in the last 50 years, and I am sorry today when politicisation is carried out. The court is mentioned, but of course not in terms of the proposal and its survival. Since I was involved, and I thank the secretary of state who has already answered some of the questions that I am interested in here in the sense that this rationalisation is not going to harm the population. I must say, however, that we are a large area that has 8 local committees and when we have talked about where to join, we should point out that seven local committees are closer to the court's seat in Ogulin 16 km than the court's seat in Delnice, and I must say that this proposal and the discussions and what I have been involved in, therefore, comes from people who thought if it already comes to a logic that does not go to the harm of the inhabitants themselves, that it does not cross 36, or in some cases more than 50 kilometers. So if we go to this merger like the proposal, so we're going to make available to people, we're going to provide a sense of departure, because unfortunately we're on that edge as the first entrance to the county, the last one on our way out, and we're kind of health-oriented towards this hospital in Ogulin. So that logic does. If it's going to be politicized as it is in some way here and tried, I'd like it not to collect political points that way because it's not a proposal for the court to survive. I am fully aware that the number of judges currently who is, that certainly cannot meet these criteria which are difficult to say no, and the criteria refer to so specialization. Since Mr. Secretary of State has therefore responded in this section, I believe that this will be achieved, so that in some ways there will be this facility, that judges will be brought in and that they will be able to specialize. I believe that there will be a better quality in terms of the case, because now one judge has been processing and doing all the things that are difficult for a local community to say at all what the quality is. But when it is already spoken and raised, I don't know if anyone else will discuss it from our Primorje-Gorski County, I have to say that in past times the administrative division of Gorski Kotar was different, so I could ask today, too, a question, because sometimes some local communities that were on the border with Vrbovski belonged when it was a wheel in this part and probably a different administrative division would be a number of residents, and then probably a number of objects. But this is the result of the current administrative division. Therefore, gravity according to the place is so administrative that today it is difficult to talk about some other logic and deny this proposal on areas and courts' seats. So I believe in the end that this logic and business that will take place in the centre of Vrbovski will satisfy the population, so in that sense I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6457	Thank you. Dear representative Biserka Vranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6458	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. There is no doubt that the situation in the judiciary is such that reform is necessary and that we need to move forward as soon as possible in this reform. And the State Secretary's report also shows the problems that are bothering us, and they're really in place. But I'm asking if we've found the right reason and the right way to sort out and solve this problem that's been bothering us for years. In fact, if we go back a little bit, it is evident that we have changed ways and strategies several times to regulate the judiciary and that the original variant was to abolish a few dozen municipal courts. However, when it was seen that we had neither economic nor other resources, then it gave up and the accession of the infringement courts to some municipal courts was announced, and apparently because of the conflict of jurisdiction, it was not fully realised, but it now resorted to a very interesting method, that from 107 the number of courts to 65 means 42 courts in the Republic of Croatia are actually losing their independence and influence. I also have to say that I don't think it's a good idea that when we make any changes or introduce more quality laws, we mostly don't use our own resources, intelligence of knowledge, abilities and ideas, but we generally interpret that Europe asks us to do so. I don't think Europe has any interest in how many courts there are in Croatia but is interested in how these courts operate and how the rule of law generally works in our country. This proposal and this Law on Courtships actually give us one situation that reduces the number of courts and that we have a situation where we refer judges to work in another court and temporarily, occasionally or continuously. However, if we look at the Law on Courts, he, today who is able to work in such a way and may, in the event of a need, be referred to a job in another court. Too many cases from a loaded court may also be directed to a court that is not so burdened. Therefore, we had no reason to do so until now to interpret this new proposal. On the other hand, if we look at the situation of the Law on Officials, it also states the possibility that an official may be sent to work in another office or court, therefore there is no reason for this kind of reduction in formal only by the number of courts to be obtained in some quality because we could have done so without it. What I think is bad in this part and at the very beginning of this project and the programme is the fact that when the courts were abolished, local self-government was not consulted at all, and the leaders of the local self-government unit were invited to talk to the mayors of each county, only when everything was resolved and when the law was actually sent to the parliamentary procedure. Also, this law did not respect the fact, for example. that the Municipality of Vojnić, Slunj, Ozalj, then Vrbovska belongs to the Municipal Court in Ogulin, did not respect the fact that in this county we have a border area, we have a field of special state care, we have a mountain-mounted area and we have a very different structure of economic, social, traffic and other connections. So it is not insignificant and the fact that some courts are over 50 years old and have shown that they are very effective in their field and that they are able to cope with all the obligations that modern society puts before them. On the other hand, we are all the time propagating development, entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial infrastructure, then solving property relations, and by abolishing such courts that have been effective and in their field solved problems in time and were indeed an example that the rule of law can work, we actually attach a very effective court to an inefficient court and I think that the courts that will actually get smaller courts in their district will actually have a good reason to say that they can't function because they don't have material, technical, human and other conditions. So I don't think there's anything going on with this, but this law has been passed under the auspices of Europe in order to reduce influence and to attack municipal courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6459	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6460	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Madam Assistant! So here's the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts I'm interested in and reporting for discussion from a point of view strictly our county of Virovitica-Podravska, in which certain courts are also attached. And in this bill, it is clear that there is also a need for better functionality, cheaper work of courts, and for both speed and efficiency to be greater. We support the implementation throughout the Republic of Croatia of such accession of courts and the reduction of the network of courts and the rationalisation of the judiciary itself, in order to contribute ultimately to the ultimate objective, speed, efficiency and efficiency of the judicial system. However, I would like to stress that I will support this proposal with certain changes that are necessary and necessary and stem from logical items that certain administrative centres that have sufficient numbers of people, therefore have a sufficient number of items such as Podravska Slatina, which has 3 000 980 cases in 2006 at 12 months, which have 6 judges, which in these criteria and criteria that your working group has worked on the ground and agreed clearly established that the Slatini Court has good reasons for survival. I would therefore like to point out that the County of Virovitica-Podravska County has also supported and concluded that the most rational thing in this proposal is that Pitomaca is attached to Virovitica, that Orahovica is attached to Slatini, that two municipal courts remain in the county of Viritarian-Podravska and that this is what is logical and satisfactory for the needs of the citizens of Virovitica-Podravska County. Everything else actually has aspects that are not in scale or criteria applied by the working group, everything else is not even agreed on the ground as the President of the County Court of Virovitica-Podravska County says. Everything else is contrary to both the conclusions and the City of Slatina, as well as the City of Orahovica. All these three institutions, meaning two cities and the County of Virovitsk-Podravska were clearly manifested and sent to the Ministry and to the representatives of their views so that it would not happen that the county that is still not institutionally covered today with all the institutions lost this court in Slatina and therefore we want to stress that the need exists to rationalise the networks of courts, that the criteria and criteria in their work are what was the efficiency, and the efficiency is measurable and the Ministry of Justice actually sees well and knows as I also have a table on the efficiency of the work of the judicial bodies. And I think a 1.73 review of the court's up-to-date work is actually an extraordinary grade. I think there are these small courts that have been supported by local self-government, designed and functional, that have done their duties on an up-to-date basis. But here is the necessity and need as well as compliance with European legislation, as well as negotiations in Chapter XXIII. As far as the judiciary is concerned, they have made the rationalisation of the network of courts one of the first reforms to be brought to justice, to which not a very big cry. But I think that whatever is to be adopted, I believe, with these respects to the aspirations of the cities, the County of Viritarian-Podravka, we as representatives, the citizens of our county on efficiency, the effectiveness of the judicial authorities should actually bring in the future and certain other normatives about or powers to the presidents of municipal courts who must control the work and urgency of each judge as an individual, who must have their rights and obligations, which must not be subject to the pasture of politics, but in a judicial system such as that exists in the county and local self-government that there is internal audit or internal control, and in the judiciary, I think that there must be a moment to control whether a judge has deliberately left the subject to stand for ten years and did not take it into consideration. There should therefore be sanctions. They exist, but do they apply, are they controlled and how they are controlled? I think that getting good results in the urgency of the work of the courts must also be additional measures that here I think would be effective and useful. So I want to point out that at first I thought that there was a mistake in the Virovitica-Podravska County as well as in Djurđevec. But really reading this bill made me realize that reality is different. And I therefore appeal that this first reading takes into account the remarks and suggestions that I refer to, which were also referred to by others that the Municipality Court of Orahovica joins the Municipal Court in Slatina, that the Municipality Court of Pitomaca is attached to the Municipal Court of Virovitica, and that is what we can be truly satisfied with as representatives of both our citizens and everyone in particular. I would also like to stress that no one should be allowed out of these standards and criteria, because they are clearly set, nor any other norms that could possibly affect the unification of courts. I don't really want them. Unless I'm challenged in this High House, I'm going to present which are norms and what nature they may be, but we're aware that we're all patriots individually and that we each have feelings and needs and responsibility for those who chose us. So this is what's really acceptable, what's not going to hurt anyone, what's going to be useful, effective, up-to-date and that's going to work with an optimal number of judges. The question really arises whether to build another building in Virovitica as it exists to accommodate 20 judges or leave the court in Virovitica and Slatina to function further, and to attach these edges to them from Orahovica and Pitomaca which... satisfied with 10 judges in Virovitica and 9 judges in Slatina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It covers the whole area. And since it is divorced and over a hundred kilometers is in the whole area in length and so on, it means that our places and municipalities without local self-government such as Čajavica, Mikleus, Nova Bukovica, Voćin and Sopeje are in fact far more than 50 km from the Virovitica county centre where a court would be located. So I ask you, if these proposals were taken as serious, quality, rational, necessary and people-supported, everything else would be really counterproductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6461	I thank you, distinguished representative Marin Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6462	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I would try very briefly to say that I am ready to support judicial reform in the context of strengthening and efficiency and certainly strengthening confidence in the system, a better quality protection of citizens, judicial protection certainly. But let me mention, there is definitely a need here for state administration reform and health reform, so the reform processes we need. I would mention that, in that part, the reform of the judiciary that we are offered here through the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Courts, which is missing normally, would be easier today for all of us to talk together that we have one full reform of the judiciary. We know that, already mentioned, it is necessary to amend the Law on Procedural Procedure, but it is necessary to amend some or simplify, better said legal solutions in order for the whole system to be much more effective. Here is what I would like to say from the Istrian County, given that in the reasoning of the law itself mentions the rationalisation and efficiency of courts, the reduction and merger of 42 courts, I would say, as far as it is concerned, that the merger of the Municipal Court in Buzet, that this very efficiency, the efficiency of the Court of Justice in Buzet, is one of the largest or most important in the Republic of Croatia, and it is this court that is being abolished. On the other hand, the Municipal Court in Buzet is also a pilot project by the Ministry of Justice, where it is unique and abusive, means together and the municipal court, means with a violation department. And that's another element of why the Buzet Municipal Court should survive as such. I will certainly mention that the Municipal Court in Buzet operates in the border area, in the border area towards the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia itself, and that is another argument given the increased inflow and criminal and criminal cases based on and crossing, and the illegal crossing of the state border, abuse of intoxicating drugs, and customs offences, means normally everything that borders the advantages it brings, but normal and certain problems that arise. On the other hand, I will say that the Municipal Court in Buzet, a court that has 140 cases, a decision by the President of the Supreme Court and which says that it is one of the most effective courts, means cases have been transferred from other municipal courts and it turns out to be one of the penalties because this court is effective. Finally, I would mention that it is a court in the area of the municipality, which operates for the area of the municipality of Lanisce, it is an area of special state care and the city of Buzet itself, meaning the city in the hill-mounted area, which is another element of which should be taken into account and especially in the depopulation of that area itself, to say by joining the court with the court in Pazin can be even more difficult. Here we are in the end, as the Club of Representatives, to submit an amendment in the direction that the Municipal Court in Buzet does not connect with the Municipal Court in Pazin. We think we have a valid argument for that. And certainly, in that case, we would support, if our amendment were to be respected, the Law on Areas and Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6463	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Is Croatia in need of judicial reform? Well, of course it's necessary, no one's doubting that. The situation in the judiciary is not good, everyone sees it. Now, what's wrong? What's wrong with justice? First of all, I think that citizens have lost faith in the judiciary, faith in the fact that justice, as it is today in Croatia, can bring justice. Why did they lose faith? First a bunch of loose ends. A million. Okay, it was a million-and-a-half, now it's reduced to a mill, but it's still a million. That's still a million. Then a long trial. The verdict has been pending for 10 years and more. Who can believe in the justice system and who has to wait 10 years and more for justice. And thirdly, the great boycott of our judiciary is bad judges. Unquality trial. Is that possible to solve? Well, I think this last one should actually start. We had proposals from the SDP Club, when it was discussed the State Judiciary Council, that this State Judiciary Council should be drawn up differently. Most of the judges are in it now. And so the State Judiciary Council avoids actually introducing work discipline amongst its colleagues and judges is simply allowed to behave as it pleases. Look, if you have a judge with dozens of files, criminal records go out of date, then I wonder how he can still be a judge. You know, when a criminal record goes out of date, a criminal record, there's someone stealing someone, someone hit someone, hurt someone, killed, killed him, I don't know what he did to them, and now that he's out of date, where there's justice for the damaged? There isn't. This guy got away with it. How much did they get out of this economic crime? Went into obsolescence. There's never been a trial. They robbed the state, they sent the workers to the street, they did, they're the vermin of this society, they're the vermin. And justice has never been reached, gone out of date. Little did the judges and the state help them, and the Parliament, the previous ones, when they cut their deadlines, went to their hands, obviously it was all the same group. So they helped each other a little. But that's the problem. We then suggested that the composition of the DSV be changed, that one-third be judges, that one-third be made up of experts from the Faculty of Law and one-third civil society. Because I'm sorry, and civil society representatives could sit in that State Judiciary Council because only common sense is enough so that a decision can be made in the DSV whether a judge with ten statutes may still be a judge or not. The proposal has not been accepted, but reforms are being discussed. And then what is being done to reform the judiciary? Municipal courts are joined, the number of courts is reduced. And it's still fighting to cut it down. In fact, some courts are being abolished because their files and their judges are being sent to another court and here the court is being abolished. What's going to happen to that? Missing case number? No, I don't. A smaller number of judges? No, I don't. Same number of judges. The number of courts in Croatia will be reduced. So will the smaller number of courts now contribute to making this trial both faster and more quality and that the files are not piling up. It won't be safe. This is an apology for not wanting to make the right move in the judiciary, in judicial reform. There is no strength or determination for him. Maybe there's no political will either. Maybe there's no political will either, so that's how the parliamentary majority, the government, the ruling furniture, fits that the items go out of date, fits. Because if they didn't like it, then they'd do something about it and not go off buildings like a major reform act. In that case, I'm asking nicely, what do you want the judges to do when they get to that new building? Do they have their courtrooms there? Do they even have work space? Do they have a desk? Do they have anywhere to sit? Well, there is a problem of space in many of our courts. When we see here from the debates that end it, the ones that are arranged, in which money is invested, which are equipped and which work effectively. Now they're being abolished and these judges are being sent to these larger courts where there's no idea if they're going to have their own courtroom, where they're going to work. Well, this can complicate things, not fix the situation in the judiciary. I have already said, so here for individual courts from local self-government representatives we have heard enough, enough arguments and that no court is lifted in Vrgorec, and that the court in Djurđevec is not lifted, and that the court in Pregrad is not abolished, and we have heard, there are almost no representatives from some area that did not advocate the idea that this court from the area from which it comes remains in office. We've heard serious and good arguments that nothing really changes. It seems to me that the matter should be turned upside down, that we should first improve the quality of the trial, that we should work on the quality of the judges, on the responsibility of the judges, so that this would lead to greater efficiency in the judiciary, and that this would lead to a reduction in the number of files, and that would create preconditions when we have a small number of files and if we had judges who had nothing to do then go to the merger of courts. That's what a reasonable man would do. Why goes the other way around here is not clear to me unless it's an apology. Unless it's an excuse for the reform moves that aren't actually there. But we're actually just wasting unnecessary time. Reform moves will have to be withdrawn. The European Union, with this judiciary, Croatia will not. And this demand for judicial reform is repeated from talks with representatives of the European Union. They keep telling us one thing and one thing, reforming that judiciary, that's not good for you. And those of Croatia with this kind of justice will not. Well, now that we know that, then we need to get going on time in that reform. We're already too late. But when we enter it, then we understand what we need to reform, why we need to reform and get on with it right now. And with these alibi laws, we're not going to solve anything at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6465	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6466	Yes, you're suggesting that by moving a judge from one building to another building and from a building where there are such conditions, to a building where he's going on a journey, I guess with a certain volume, with one file, and he doesn't even know where he's going to put them in another building is not a reform of the judiciary, and there's no question about that at all. The real reform is what you point to and that the real problems would be solved therefore by how it is done, which is the composition of the DSV that those who are good are able to move forward, and not by the same structure, because they have competition, so those best judges can neither be the presidents of the Supreme Court nor go to the Supreme Court because not someone third but they are not given to them by the same judges who are in those councils. It's the same way you talk about the problems of antiquity. And perhaps another amazing example that by 2000, the outdated was the way the case was solved and the statute of limitations was included in the resolved case, so you had an absurd situation. He could've been a judge doing nothing and just letting things fly out of date and get the norm. And I can tell you that there have been some who have earned a great standard in this way. But the main problem is what interests our citizens and what most traumatises them and what traumatized them until 2000, but also after that, because such behaviour is still possible, it is economic crime. We want that kind of reform here. That's what we had. If you don't know how that was in the 2003 novel, then to enable effective sanctioning of economic crime. This is one message that such behaviours were not allowed to harm the credentials were those of the state or of the workers, but also to enable the judiciary to allow such cases, since these complex objects do not appear out of date, and it is very easy for the latter wave to cover any events that took place in the 1990s, and you have also pointed out why this does not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6467	Thank you. And last in an individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6468	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Today, several times we had the opportunity to hear a single syntagma that would be worth discussing, which is a national interest, and now it seems that this radical cutting of the network of courts of almost 40% should be represented as a national interest. The problems in the judiciary are much more complex and deeper and almost all of them I dare say to my colleagues who had previously discussed. But the profession and the public who have been talking about the efficiency of the judiciary for years have never put the rationalisation of the network of courts first, and this is exactly what happens to us that the Government is agreeing on the priorities of those measures that need to be implemented in order to make the judiciary more effective practically rationalise the network of courts, which is referred to by one of the Esposian languages as attaching and joining, rather than abolishing, in the first place. If it were really a key that would contribute to the affirmation of the judiciary as activities and the affirmation of the judiciary as a successful and effective institute then it would be the easiest thing to do to end all the districtal, or municipal courts, so that we only have one and that in Zagreb and be sure that then the trial would be less than now and that many people would give up the trial if they knew that we would only have to go to Zagreb for municipal court. But not to leave what I'm saying just like a figure or a rhetorical joke, so that's exactly what's going on here. I should remind you that Zagreb County is the only county we have not allowed to have its headquarters on its territory, but has its seat on the territory of another county, which is the city of Zagreb. Just like that, we are the only county that has no police administration, no headquarters, and here we are slowly having municipal courts removed, so our people from St. John Zeline and Dugi Selo are headed to Zagreb and in Sesvete. And where? To Sesvete. So have either of you ever been to the Municipal Court in the Councils to see how this institution works and under what conditions. Well, you're not in a position to put a scribe there, because it's a crowded building, too old, technically modest. It is not possible to even archive hundreds of new files, let alone attract new cases, new judicial processes from Long Village and St John's Zeline. Well, that's what's happening to us. Two municipal courts are now being abolished on the territory of our county to go to Zagreb. Well, let's all go to Zagreb, while we're at it. It's absolutely illogical because we didn't get an answer today to the question of where the second-degree court would be. What is the second degree to the citizens of Vrgorec? Is it the County Court in Dubrovnik or the County Court in Split? So does anyone know how to get to Dubrovnik from Draguljan, Kozica and Zavojan? So do we have the strength to force the citizens to go to Dubrovnik when they have no public traffic connections there at all? They don't even have a Metkovic! To get to Metkovic, they must change several means of transport. And the court was founded in 1855 and covers three hundred square kilometers. Well, no one started it out of a whim! It has not been established by someone just enough to be one of the institutions even though the judiciary institution exists in our neighborhoods thank God for 1,000 years in some cities. The city judge is an institute that has existed since Byzantine times, and even in military communications founded during the Turkish defence era, there was a city judge as one of the most important city institutes. Now we're cutting them off. And what does that really mean? That means centralization. Didn't we declare that we were going to decentralisation? Are modern and democratic and stable societies not doing everything possible to serve citizens, so education, health care, social welfare, and justice as much as possible, to give them equal chances of doing the differences that have arisen from the ineffectiveness of the state and to enable them to be equal or more equal? Because we're not even born in everything, so we can't be in everything, but I wish we had equal chances. And isn't that a national interest? Mr. Zubovicu, they're leaving because you're shouting from the bench. You can lift the line. Feel free to call me back. I'd like to talk to you. Furthermore, will we come by this analogy tomorrow with a proposal to abolish all district schools because there are only three children going there? Are we going to shut down the area hospitals because they only have five hundred patients enrolled, so we'll forget that HZZO allows those in certain situations right now. What are these situations? The situations in which we admit that citizens have specific living conditions. Are we going to let our white spots be even whiter, that people are leaving because we're moving to big cities, services that are so important? So what we're talking about is the future of Croatia when we want to drive everyone who lives there, because in order to achieve their basic needs, they're going to have to travel by buses that are more expensive and change that by two, three. They'll have to change several means of transport. So is that a national interest? Is that what citizens expect of us as the elites of Croatian political society? I don't think so. I wouldn't agree to that. Why are we not able to talk about the most painful things, and these are the list of priorities, the change in the judiciary that all the profession is talking about. Why don't we have the strength to open the question of the efficiency of the judges? I'll remind you, the CNS has proposed a comprehensive reform of the judiciary. One of the proposals was that 5 or 3% of the most inefficient judges each year were to be thanked and to tell them finely that you'd no longer be judges because you had the most outdated, because you had the most broken convictions at the second degree or at the higher level. Let's open that question, not these 40 million kunas we've been planning this year. If we multiply that by 10 years, how long this transition will take, it means if it's ideal, and it won't be because it's going to be more and more for the implementation of this law, and that's not what the proposer delivered to us, so we don't know what it's going to cost today or tomorrow we're going to continue to debate, or vote in the future. Four hundred million kuna would cost this sport anything if every year they singled out only these 40 as in the first year, and the first year has already been half past. So the next one might be double. Look how much these huge buildings are costing us to leave. So who's going to get her real value for the Vrgorec building? No one. And if we're really gonna be able to make that money, amortize some of these costs. I therefore propose that we make a fine investment in the construction of a grand building of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, where thousands of judges will work and that we all go fine in Zagreb because this is probably the intensity of this great centralisation. So that we all go to school in Zagreb, that we only have one university, that we only have one hospital. Those are the cheapest solutions. If we think it's a national interest, it's an honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6469	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6470	A colleague, Beus, spoke of one particular aspect other than what everyone has more or less repeated about this irrational rationalization, he also talked about this social, social aspect that has courts and these courts are not just technical things that are being removed and created by the move. The historical moment and not only the historical moment but also the crime scene, the main postulate is that he is tried as close to where the work was done or I guess we're used to The Hague as possible. But you see, don't "her, her, her" these are your friends where you delivered them while you were in the opposition times calling the waterfront and you'd better keep your mouth shut about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6471	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6472	But look at this, you're telling a colleague that it would be good if this was all going towards centralization. Well, centralization makes one sense, but it's not even centralization, so you see what's going on with our biggest mastodon and the government itself is saying, it's the biggest court in Europe, that municipal court. But at the same time as we're joining the courts here, it separates into a few smaller courts. So define yourself, which is centralization, which is decentralisation, and at the same time you announce between the court, a new degree between the county courts and the Supreme Court. It's always someone out there heats up that idea, and now it would be finally if here were the government representatives to make a statement about whether to form a third degree at this time so-called. rationalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6473	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6474	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to thank everyone for the debate, and I want to thank everyone for making certain suggestions. What I can guarantee is that we will further analyse all these proposals that you presented in the debate. Many of you have been very specific and have raised certain doubts about specific courts, in specific areas. We're going to analyze that one more time, and we're going to go out in the field one more time to get ready for another reading of this law. Once again in the end, it's not an extermination, it's not a cutting, it's not taking away citizens' rights, it's just a different organisation of courts. This is a different and more quality organization where we are leading exactly on the national interest of which counterpart Richemberger spoke where it is actually a national interest in a better quality trial, faster trial, more effective trial. That's exactly what we're trying to do. And that's why we don't worry about whether this is the first measure, the last measure, but we're actually going at all measures and we're educating our judges today to carry out procedures as quickly as possible, but we're also preparing laws that will make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6475	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6476	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. That was the first reading. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is hereby adopted. Second. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. So let's get involved and vote on the conclusion. Here you go. You've heard the proposal for a conclusion. The result? These conclusions were accepted by the majority of votes 77 for, 5 abstentions and 37 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6477	We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 46 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Law. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Ms Marina Dujmovic Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6478	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on attorneyship was passed in 1994. This law regulates the establishment and operation of a lawyership as an independent and independent service which ensures legal assistance to natural and legal persons in the exercise and protection of their rights and legal interests. One of the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Under the current Law on Attorneyship, foreign lawyers cannot carry out legal activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but may, with exception, be represented in arbitration proceedings. This proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Attorneyship of Foreign Lawyers from the Member States of the European Union would allow them to carry out their lawyers in the Republic of Croatia. A foreign lawyer who has obtained the right to make a lawyer’s call in the home country may, in accordance with the conditions prescribed by this law in the Republic of Croatia, make a lawyer’s call, a lawyer’s call under the name of profession from his home country and a lawyer’s office. A lawyer from a Member State of the European Union would enroll in the directory of foreign lawyers at the Croatian Bar Association, and in the Republic of Croatia he could make a lawyer's call under the name of a lawyer if, on all other conditions, he passed the examination from the knowledge of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia according to the legal examination programme. After enrolling in the register of Croatian bar attorneys, the lawyer would in all things be leveled with a domestic lawyer. A lawyer from a Member State of the European Union who would be registered in the directory of foreign lawyers at the Croatian Bar and who could make a lawyer’s call of interest from his home country, if he adds a certificate of registration to the competent authority of the home country, a certificate of nationality, proof of professional liability insurance. In this case, a lawyer may give advice on the right of his country of origin, on the law of the European Union, on international law and on the law of the Republic of Croatia. In carrying out a lawyer’s activity related to the representation of parties before courts, such a lawyer must act together with a lawyer who has the right in the Republic of Croatia to carry out a lawyer’s activity under the name of a lawyer. A lawyer from a member of the European Union who is not registered in the directory of foreign lawyers of the Croatian Bar of Law may carry out certain activities in the context of the conduct of the lawyer’s activity. The lawyer who intends to perform the legal actions shall be obliged to inform the Croatian Bar Association in writing and to attach evidence of competence to make a lawyer’s call and evidence of professional liability insurance in the home country. Such a lawyer may then give advice on the right of his country of origin, on the law of the European Union, on international law and on the law of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of this law concerning the status of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia will apply once the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. Furthermore, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a foreign law firm in the Republic of Croatia may set up branches. These branches will be able to provide legal services involving consulting services on the right of their home country, on the law of the European Union and on international law. In addition to the amendments and additions to this law relating to the exercise of the legal profession of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed to amend the law in such a way as to establish and bring the Croatian Bar Association with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. For defence by official duty, the level of reward for the work of a lawyer is determined by the Ministry of Justice. According to the proposal, the Croatian Bar is required to adopt a tariff within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law. In the event that the Croatian Parliament does not give consent to the tariff, the Croatian Bar is obliged to re-deliver the tariff to the Croatian Parliament within a period of 2 months in accordance with the Croatian Parliament's remarks and recommendations. In the event that the Croatian bar does not deliver to the Croatian Parliament within the prescribed deadlines laid down in this law a tariff on awards, the minister of justice will bring a provisional tariff. In the Member States of the European Union, the question of legal tariffs and the handling of its height is left to each Member State to regulate freely. The practice of European countries is quite different. In the Republic of Germany, for example. the level of prices for legal services is prescribed by the Federal Law on compensation for legal services. In Austria, the lawyer's tariff is regulated by two regulations, namely federal law and the decision of the bar in the form of a conclusion. Under the current Law on Attorneyship, the tariff is a unilateral act by the Croatian Bar Association. Proposed changes through a public and democratic debate in this House, the bar tariff could be better done. This proposal would also allow a law firm in the Republic of Croatia to be established as a public company and as a limited liability company in accordance with the Commercial Society Act. And as a minimum, the capital is determined at a height of 350,000 kuna. In order to protect the parties from the threat of damage caused by error, negligence, failure or negligence in the work of lawyers, it is proposed that the minimum amount secured in the provisions relating to liability insurance shall be prescribed in the case of an insurance case. Each lawyer, a member of a law firm as well as an employee lawyer in a public company must also be secured at the stated amount. As a limited liability company, the proposal is that each lawyer, founder of a limited liability company, must be obliged to provide a minimum amount of 9 million kuna on a case-by-case basis, as well as lawyers employed in that company at the sum of 800,000 kuna. In view of the quality of law enforcement, it is proposed to support the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers so that, as a step-by-step measure, a permanent loss of the right to exercise attorneyship in the event of the most serious injuries is prescribed. It also increases the period of outdated persecution for violations of duty and reputation of a lawyer, and that absolutely antiquated disciplinary persecution occurs in any case over the course of double time necessary for antiquity of persecution. In addition to those amendments, some harmonisations of this law to other regulations have been made, since the Law on Attorneyship was passed since 1994. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6479	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take your word for it? The Justice Committee? Dear Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6480	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored State Secretary, Honored Fellow Members and Fellow Representatives! At the 4th session held on 22 April 2008, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 10 April 2008. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Proposer's introductory representative pointed out that this proposal harmonizes our legislation with the regulations of the European Union, giving the possibility to carry out legal activities for foreign lawyers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed to establish and bring the Croatian Bar Association with the consent of the Croatian Parliament, while for defence by official duty the level of the lawyer's work award is determined by the Ministry of Justice. The law prescribes the minimum amount secured in the event of the protection of parties from the occurrence of damage due to errors, failures and the like. A stricter disciplinary responsibility of a lawyer is proposed. A lawyer may permanently lose the right to exercise his attorneyship. In the debate, members of the board supported by the majority of votes the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship. In the debate, the minority position under which the consent to the legal tariffs should be given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Justice if the consent is the commitment of the applicant and that the second-degree body in the process of acquisition... The right to exercise attorneyship should be the Ministry of Justice and not the Management Board of the Croatian Bar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament with six votes in favour and three votes against. Paragraph 1: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship shall be adopted. Under 2: Any observations, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6481	Thank you. Is the Committee on Human Rights and the National Minority? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. The first club is the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished representative Ivo Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6482	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community, the Croatian Democratic Community club, supports the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship in first reading. It should be pointed out at the outset that one of the reasons for the adoption of this regulation or one of the most important reasons for harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. In the context of negotiations with the European Union, the right of establishment and freedom to provide services is an area within which two very important areas of law should be clearly defined, firstly relating to the position of attorneyship in the European Union, and secondly to the cross-border provision of legal services. I would therefore like to say about very sensitive legal issues on the one hand by a certain constitutional and legal standard which defines attorneyship as an independent and independent service which provides, in accordance with the law, any legal assistance and a special law governing the establishment and operation of a lawyership as an independent service which ensures legal assistance to natural and legal persons in the exercise and protection of their rights and legal interests. According to that law, the Law on Attorneyship of Foreign Lawyers cannot carry out legal activity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The right to exercise attorneyship is obtained by enrolling in the register of lawyers who are being held at the Croatian bar and the example is due to one of the conditions for enrolment is Croatian citizenship. Subject changes and additions to the law and to foreign lawyers would allow lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, of course, after meeting the law of the prescribed conditions. Namely, enrolment in the directory of foreign lawyers at the Croatian bar will be possible under the following conditions. First business and health capacity, secondly, that a person is not under investigation or that a criminal case is not being conducted against him for a criminal offence conducted under official duty, thirdly that he is worthy of law enforcement, fourthly that he does not carry out any dealings that are incompatible with the attorney's office, fifthly that he has a professional liability insurance contract, sixthly that he has the space and equipment necessary to carry out his legal activity, and seventhly to pass the examination from the knowledge of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia according to the judicial examination programme. A second option when a lawyer from a Member State of the European Union makes a lawyer's call under the name of profession and his country of origin after enrolment in the register of the Croatian Bar of Lawyers may first give advice under the law of his home country, the second in the law of the European Union, third in international law on the law of the Republic of Croatia. However, when it comes to representing parties before real and local courts in the Republic of Croatia, he must act together with a lawyer who has the right in the Republic of Croatia to carry out a lawyer's activity under the name of a lawyer. We have a third proposed situation when a lawyer from a Member State of the European Union is not listed in the directory of foreign lawyers of the Croatian Bar. Such a lawyer may give advice on the right of his country of origin, on the law of the European Union, on international law and on the law of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, all legal provisions relating to the status of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia will apply once the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. Also, the provisions of this bill regulate I would say three really important questions for the work and functioning of the attorney's office. These are first-taste issues, second-level insurance issues and third issues of disciplinary responsibility. Amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship are prescribed to establish and bring the Croatian Bar Association with the consent of the Croatian Parliament and to defend the level of the lawyer's work award to the Ministry of Justice. According to the current Law on Attorneyship, the tariff is determined and adopted by the Croatian Bar Association. Maybe here's a suggestion to the proposer. It might be wise to consider that consent is eventually brought by a representative, an executive body, or perhaps by the Ministry of Justice. Given that this is diversely regulated in the members of the European Union, the team is more so than exactly the Ministry of Justice, in particular, if it is a matter of defence under official duty, which determines the level for the work of lawyers. So just one suggestion to think about it, see if there's a possibility. Furthermore, I said this other important issue in the functioning of the attorney's office. It's a new form of establishment of a law firm. In this proposal, it is proposed that a law firm in the Republic of Croatia, except as a public company, can be established as a limited liability company in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies and is designated as the minimum amount of underlying capital of HRK 350 thousand. And the third question is, I would say disciplinary responsibilities, introducing a new level of the minimum amount of insurance for, I apologize, for the introduction of full order and work and discipline of lawyers, is proposed to make this proposal more disciplinary responsibility in such a way that as a disciplinary measure is prescribed, it is very interesting and important, that a lawyer can permanently lose his right to exercise attorneyship when he commits the most difficult failures or when he acts in his work recklessly. It also increases the period of outdated persecution for serious violations of duty and respects a lawyer, rises from two years to four years, and for minor injuries from six months rises to two years, and that the absolute age of disciplinary persecution occurs in any case during the course of double time necessary for the age of persecution. Given the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6483	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6484	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the honourable gentlemen of the council. In this court of mine, this law is good, surprisingly good. If for no reason, then, in some ways, we limit our will in this area of law enforcement. I know that it will continue with the law, without the law, everything will go the way it was. Everything will take place in the future on the relationship between the client and the lawyer. We know that here's to being cynical that it will continue to be "the worst paid profession" where lawyers will report salaries of three, four, max 5,000 kuna. On the other hand, driving cars of 100,000 euros and buying multiple expensive properties. We know that even in the future presidents of 15000 kuna courts will go to lawyers on the salary of $3,000, so when that is the case, lawyers in this country must be protected. How? Well, that's how it's proposed that this tariff be determined by the Parliament or the Ministry and that's good. Why? Because everyone has to have the right to a decent life. For a fair business fair fee. It must be a principle and lawyers will no longer work in this country for three, four or five thousand kunas and they must make a decent profit and let them do so. That's what we've got to do! So, for honest business, fair fee. That's my principle. The essence of this law is this Article 31. It is literally said here that I quote that “Croatian Chamber of crafts is required within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law to bring a tariff on awards and fees for the work of lawyers, and to deliver it to the Croatian Assembly for consent.” Stavak second. “If the Croatian Parliament does not give consent to the tariff on prizes and fees for the work of lawyers, the Croatian Chamber of crafts is obliged to re-deliver that fee to the Croatian Parliament within a period of 2 months and to reimburse the costs for the work of lawyers in line with the remarks and recommendations of the Croatian Parliament. If the Croatian bar of attorneys referred to in paragraph 3 is not delivered to the Croatian Parliament within the time limit set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the tariff on prizes and fees for the work of lawyers, the Minister of Justice shall bring a provisional tariff on the remuneration and fees for the work of lawyers. This was the most controversial provision. Maybe this was the provision that the bar of attorneys attacked the most. However, I would dare say that with one such provision, Croatia goes well beyond the standards that exist or exist in European countries. In Hungary, this fee is determined by the Ministry of Justice, also in the Czech Republic, also in Greece, also, in Slovakia, Spain, and here it will bring no less than Parliament. What does Croatia mean it does? Croatia is going through my court above these European standards because the parliament is a body above a single government portfolio and this parliament should give its consent. In Germany, we see in reason, and as was the initial proposal of the Ministry of State determines the amount of compensation. That's what the unions are looking for. So today we can say that Croatia has the most liberal model or would have the most liberal model, without telling another detail that even fees in Croatia are several times larger than they are in one Germany. Clearly, we do not need to be surprised why our fees are higher. Why? Because to be cynical, Croats have a standard higher than they have in Kuwait, so why not pay more in traffic than the Germans pay. Why wouldn't our legal or notation tariffs be higher than in Germany? Why would the price of food when we have a standard better than Kuwaiti would not be higher than in Germany? Why wouldn't our utility services be more expensive than in Italy, etc. etc. What I personally think is that if we support the proposed model, that no one should feel called or hit, and not damaged, even though the opinion of the IDS Club is on the trail of the one proposed by the Justice Committee so that it may be best that, as in a whole series of European countries, that tariff determines or that consent to those tariffs to the Bar of Justice that no less than the competent ministry. Where would it finally take us if the Parliament would determine tariffs for both lawyers and architects, and then I don't know boaters, hairdressers, barbers, etc. etc. At the end of the strippers. I don't think it should be done again or that, except in this last one, that the Croatian Parliament should be burdened. It is good to have another principle in this law to ensure that the parties are protected from harm, error, negligence, negligence and so on. So it's not enough to just report someone to the Chamber, because it's usually nothing, but it's really a matter of asking for compensation from that law firm. And since someone in this country, and if the lawyer is doing those three, four, max 5,000 kunas clearly, and the majority of them are in this country, then you can't make up your mind, but it's logical that you'll settle down from the insurance company and for this provision I have the impression that you should raise two, not just one hand. And that's one concrete suggestion. Then, whether a lawyer like the Austrian State Secretary, Germany, will not know the Netherlands will work in Croatia it is unlikely as the other way around. But if any right is possible for us in any of the countries of the European Union, then it is clear that, with some logic of reciprocity, we must give the same right to the citizens of those countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But I can see that it doesn't concern anyone too much because such a situation will indeed be rare, rather said almost won't be. What every citizen cares about or a large majority of citizens, however, are these tariffs. And what these citizens in some way should be guaranteed through the competent ministry, that these tariffs are decent, not excessive because we know in the end who can only benefit and what we also have to guarantee lawyers, a decent life for honest work, a fair fee, and not what might change with this unique number, or what it will be called. All in all, I think the intensity is good, that the law needs to be confirmed with this little remark that the relevant Justice Committee had, that the matter of granting consent is left to the competent ministry and that this House is not burdened.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6485	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6486	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So it should begin at the beginning to say something that dominates this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship without that final proposal and emergency procedure, which is for the bar to work and for us Croatian MPs to agree on that tariff. Such a solution is not acceptable for the SDP club for principle concept reasons. It's not in Parliament's area. It is not in the parliament's section that determines prices, whether or not they are called the tariff system. That is to say, to escape the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice. Why do I think that? So now you've heard that in Europe there are different solutions to the pricing of legal services in different countries, everyone has adapted themselves to the situation. There is therefore no directive that we must regulate this system. Then why did the government resort to a purpose that didn't explain anything? It's just to avoid responsibility for the situation. Therefore, for principle and concept reasons, this bill cannot be adopted nor will the SDP club be accepted. There is now something very important to note. Namely, I think the bar charge should be arranged so that it detimises the length of the procedure, that the lawyer is interested in finishing the case as soon as possible, materially, to be interested. To finish the subject as soon as possible, and there are such solutions in Europe. So not every representation shop in a lawyer's office is paid, but the total work on representation in one case is paid and the efficiency or success of the case is stimulated, in the process. At the same time, we must say that some representations are truly enormous. This should be analysed and provided with these data because they are dependent on the case, or on the value of the dispute. So if it's still state resources, then those values go very easily and are easily charged. At the same time in the bar tariff, we have very small or miserable fees for some very important procedural matters and very responsible representation roles, for example in criminal cases. So we can't generally say they're big or they're small, but we can generally say that the current system of bar fees doesn't encourage either the lawyer or the court to end the dispute as soon as possible. I think it is possible to get and the Parliament should ask the proposer to give us a serious comparative analysis of the legal tariffs in the system how this is handled in the countries of the European Union and to tell us why one of these is and why the other one is like this. I think it is a serious question because in relation to the bar, the lawyer, the client, I'm always on the client's side. He needs professional help. He's a person I'm not supposed to say, a student in a case where he has to perform. At the same time, the Bar Association in Croatia is only one, and when it comes to the Bar Association, then it has no competition, but when it comes to lawyers, it has competition and they are on the market. Not in all things, of course, and that should be analysed. The issue is the participation of foreign lawyers' houses in Croatia is an imminent issue that must come to the agenda and it will probably change the picture and place of the legal chamber in the Republic of Croatia and the market appearance of our lawyers. But until then, we also need to resolve something in favour of the efficiency of the trial, in favour of clients seeking legal assistance, and it is difficult to pay. Now the question arises that Croatia still has no law on free legal aid, which is also part of the legal system. Legal aid, protection of citizens, protection of the interests of people who go to court. So how do we talk about the whole system? It's not possible. The question arises why perhaps we shouldn't encourage another chamber of lawyers. Why would the Chamber have access to 10,000 euros to join the Chamber? But that's less important. It's a Swedish association. That's not the point of the Parliament's work. Only by the way, I stress, the purpose of the Parliament's work is to ask the Government to find a system that will make representation available, available in a material sense, prices, the work of a lawyer to be paid properly and for the proper procedures, but also success in the case, and not every action, no matter how good or bad for justice or for a client. When it comes to insurance under the conditions of a failure of a lawyer that a client can suffer as damage, I think it is minimal that we can demand in market conditions that every lawyer must be secured, now it is a matter of damage and insurance that should not be entered into our domain, it is still part of the market, but in any case we must demand that it be as an institute. And finally, when it comes to the legal services market, we need to encourage that market, and that means that we need to enable agreement, a contract between a client and a lawyer to agree outside the tariff that it will be paid so much and so much, depending on the length of the procedure and the success of the dispute. Here are some of the thoughts we hope to contribute to solving problems in this area, I think it is possible to do so in a relatively short period, so it would be good to consider this debate as principled and to get the opportunity to see in another debate whether what we are proposing or having a better comparative solution that already exists in the countries of the European Union is acceptable at all. These are reasons why the SDP club will not support this law even in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6487	Thank you. SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6488	Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Of the four things this proposal intends to change. Therefore, the first possibility for foreign lawyers to acquire the right to represent in the Republic of Croatia since the day of our membership in the European Union. Second, control of this House of Lawyers tariffs. Third, mandatory insurance of a lawyer for damages. And fourthly, more severe sanctions for violations of attorney's duty, we consider the SDSS club a good way to improve the state of attorneyship in the Republic of Croatia, generally looking, except for one thing, and this is a matter of transferring the powers of supervision over the charges of lawyers to this Assembly. The SDSS, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, cannot accept or accept this. This Parliament is not here to be responsible first for what the competent ministry did, and then to respond because it will do some kind of Czech or any other association in the Republic of Croatia. We're not gonna afford that kind of pleasure to anyone, so neither are you who suggest this with probably the best possible intentions. There's too much animosity over this Parliament anyway, which we need to go to and go to the account and those who don't go to our expense. So that's the kind of masochism we won't be able to accept. It's the political dimension of things. And the second dimension of things when it comes to tariffs is that here it certainly can't be worth the English saying trust is good, but control is better, checking is better. So trust is good, and so far we have had confidence in the Croatian Bar, we do not have it long ago, I will say a few words about why we do not have it, but the control of this Parliament is not enough to restore this trust, nor to achieve what needs to be achieved. And that is why we cannot accept this role, but we are returning to the elementary role of this House in such a matter, which is the role of the legislator. We may, Mr. Vice-President and the honourable proposings, or the representatives of the proposings, take over the role so that we can regulate the levels of bar fees by law and that, in accordance with our powers and in accordance with the powers of other bodies, the judicial authorities in the state can control the implementation of the law to the extent that we can, but in order for us to control the tariffs that will be harmonised, agreed by the Bar Association, we simply cannot accept it because we do not have that kind of knowledge and that kind of possibility. And secondly, because that would always be arbitrary. For this reason, and of course it would not have achieved what is important to achieve, and that is to change, ladies and gentlemen, not only the supervision of how tariffs are practiced and what is their height, but to create a new tariff rule as most colleagues have already spoken here, especially Mr. Representative Leco. So, in that sense, we in the SDSS think it is necessary for this matter, as well as for other states, to be regulated by a special law, by law on the level of legal tariffs. And it is also necessary to finally pass the Law on Free Legal Assistance, because unfortunately we are still still, I hope it won't be for so long, but we are still a country with a lot of poor people, a country with a large number of those who, despite formal indicators such as property censorship or something else, actually don't have the money to pay the court fees, to pay the bar fees, to pay what is necessary to pay to protect their rights. For this reason, we would do so, because why did we rebel and when we rebelled on the Committee on Human Rights and on some other committees of this House, in the last term of this Parliament against barrage tariffs? The moment we faced the fact that the level of the barbaric tariffs is in a series of cases of obstacles for people to defend their rights before courts and protect their rights. One reason is that, of course, the Czech association that is being called on to the market, and in fact, de facto has a monopoly position throughout the whole thing and will have it all until things are put in place differently within the frameworks of the European Union. It is not the Ministry and the Government, for their reasons they believe that there is not enough money in the budget to ensure all the elements of the free legal aid that Croatia and many Croatian citizens need at the moment. At this point, we have raised the issue of tariffs and, of course, we have raised the question of free legal assistance as two key mechanisms for courts to be adequately available to those who need them in terms of protecting their rights. Now here we need to worry about the rights of lawyers because it is them, we will shorten their right to match on the market and freedom to determine their tariffs, and we will not worry about a much larger number of people who have actually been denied the fundamental right to come to the protection of their rights before the courts. We would turn the whole thing around, equally if we were to worry about protecting cigarette and tobacco manufacturers, and we wouldn't worry about protecting the health of many who are threatened by the same cigarettes or the same circumstances in which people use it. So it seems to us that it is necessary to shorten court proceedings because the current system of tariffs actually encourages the length of the procedure. In order to encourage them outside the court settlement, because the current system does not actually go and stimulate outside the court settlement, that it would indeed be done that all people, regardless of their property status, have the same assumption that they get to the court, another thing is how many skilled a lawyer will pay and whether they will really have extra funds to pay for such an extra service-based lawyer. But when it comes to elemental possibility and elemental equality, we have to provide it with the law. That's why we absolutely support your basic intensities in these four amendments by thinking that this fourth change in tariffs in the direction that we control it here at the end, and that the chamber determines it is unacceptable and we think it is necessary instead to propose a Law on heights of legal tariffs. And on the other hand, that too, because this Law on the height of tariffs is not an obligation under the Directive, but the question of the Law on Free Legal Assistance is that as soon as possible the Law on Free Legal Assistance is adopted. And then, of course, after that, we also have the Law on the height of the bar fees. If we do it in that direction, and in that sense, I think that your intensity will be fully achieved, this is how it is curtailed by this intensity, and in that case the SDSS Club will be able to support it. And in these circumstances, despite the general good intensity, we can't support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6489	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This topic is practically a continuation of the topic that we have discussed before because in a certain way we are determining the availability of justice, justice or justice to our citizens. When the debate began several months ago, the public interest prices were the prices of legal services. But in my debate, I would point out that not only are the prices of the topic we should discuss or speak openly but also the quality of the service that I think citizens receive for too much price. I don't want to generalize. I don't want to accuse the profession and the large number of people in Croatia who are engaged in law enforcement and claim that it is bad. But I personally testified on the citizens' application when lawyers charged a tariff under the tariff rule for a year refused or forgot to give the client a final verdict and a solution to the appeal procedure. When they forgot to file an appeal for a verdict or a first-degree solution. And the worst case was, and these two first cases were, it was the disabled of the Homeland War in the exercise of pension rights. But there was also a case where they forgot to pay the compensation they charged on the defendant's side for a full six months. All three cases were given to the Court of Honor, if I'm not mistaken, that's what it's called, the bar of attorneys, and they're all finished so there were no elements for anything. The Croatian Chamber of crafts is a citizen who has received public authority. And she's not the only one. I said before and with the judges, and now I claim that the bar of attorneys did their part of the job and cleared up and in their ranks what had to be cleared up. And she was acting in accordance with the public authority she received from the Parliament. It is likely that the tariff rule and tariffs and objections and all this debate would go in different tones and ways, but they acted according to that one, so that the crow’s eyes would not dig, and the hawk of crows would not hunt. But now it's not about the Falcon anymore. It's about an eagle called P.Z.E. So they are in panic and crows and hawks. And now we have to do something. The tariffs and prescriptions were often applied by a non-existent tariff rule called reductive and citizens say when you say good day to a lawyer that costs you 500 kuna. It would be extremely good if this law in the second reading were together with the Law on Free Legal Assistance, since it would likely and then a large part of the objection to this law would be milder or more resilient. However, I would also like to introduce you to the views of trade union associations who have a special interest in this topic because of the large number of labour disputes in Croatian courts because of their long-term and high costs. A solution under which the Croatian Parliament would agree on the tariff, at the proposal of the Bar Association, trade unions find it unacceptable for three groups of reasons. First, they are called for the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency since 2004, which it considers to be, I quote: "Because the Croatian Bar Association is based on the rules currently applicable in the Republic of Croatia, it determines and brings a legal tariff and it is also an association of lawyers who apply the tariff and, on the basis of which it collects rewards and fees for their work, consider the opposite of the rules.". So in 2004, the agency came to the conclusion that the law should be amended. The second reason the trade unions warn is that such changes proposed by the government are only changing the process of setting tariffs, the procedure but not the model. The procedure is only changed in that the decision of the chamber is not final, that it must obtain confirmation from the Parliament but that the model is not touched and that it is precisely the model of the tariff determination that is in the opinion of the overpriced union and they believe that it is not enough to change the procedure itself but also the model. The change of model would also lead to the fact that the problem of proceedings in front of Croatian courts will be shortened because lawyers will also be interested in taking the proceedings as short as possible and not as long as possible. Secondly, the existing model does not encourage lawyers to settle disputes out of court but rather the opposite of being as many as possible and to last as long as possible. For all the reasons that we have heard about the courts and the reasons that necessarily require change and reform of the Croatian judiciary, it is in our interest that the greater number of disputes are not brought to an end before the courts than to be resolved before the arbitration authorities, especially when labour disputes are at issue and the Law on Labour guides and allows arbitration to avoid courts and court proceedings that are too long, which are expensive for both the state and the parties in the dispute, and to stimulate lawyers to be those third parties who are also trying to avoid courts and extrajudicial solutions to come to just solutions. Trade unions propose to pass a special law, a special regulation establishing the level of legal tariffs. That it is possible to prove the situation in Germany, Austria, Spain, as well as the neighbouring Slovenia who had a similar model as we do and who has in the procedure the law before parliament on the establishment of legal fees. I do not argue that this model must be a fixed amount and that the debate model should be opened, but should certainly achieve that question if the price of something is in the interest of almost every adult citizen and legal person in Croatia is in Parliament's jurisdiction. The judgments of the European Court also state that there is national law and the law of the parliaments that such national laws and decisions determine the level of the legal tariffs and that this does not violate the principle of free competition under the rules of the European Union. And such a regulation would not belong to the coordination category and would not be the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and would be in the sovereignty of the Croatian Parliament. If, therefore, trade unions representing around 30,000 labour disputes annually are also calling for lawyers to be stimulated to avoid trial and non-judicial settlement, a solution to arbitration as a way of resolving disputes, is it not their contribution to that, or is it an attempt to contribute to making the number of court cases as small as possible in ten years and the number of judges and courts that should have fewer. And only two data. At the value of a thousand-euro dispute, the average fee in Croatia is 315 euros, forgive me in Croatia at 2 thousand 40 euros plus VAT, in Germany 315. At the cost of the 10,000-euro dispute, which is a ten-year severance notice in Germany, the average fee to the lawyer can be a thousand 458 euros and in Croatia 2 thousand 40 euros plus VAT. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6491	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6492	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I reported that in fact, in just a few sentences, I would kind of repeat my debate with the Committee on Human Rights and support all my colleagues who had previously spoken in terms of disagreement with certain provisions of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyership. This primarily refers to the envisaged provision at the level of the legal tariffs, the consent of this proposal is given by the Croatian Parliament. I think it is wrong and I do not agree with my colleague Cain who said that this is how this will be discussed by the Parliament of Croatia even above the standards of European countries. And otherwise, I don't really understand where the promoters actually found a foothold to propose that Parliament, so the Croatian Parliament gives consent to the legal tariffs when it comes to all these examples that you have set in the light of the proposals for these amendments. In fact, through all these examples, it is seen that more or less everywhere the level of legal tariffs is actually determined by the Ministry of Justice, of course again in cooperation with individual law offices of individual countries. In fact, it seems to me that in some way I would say transferring one job that is not actually in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, and then transferring responsibility to the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, what finally comes out of this proposal again that everything will eventually go back to the Ministry of Justice, because here I am if after three months it is not, we do not give consent to the proposed levels of the bar then it will return to the chamber, and then it will return it back to the Parliament within 2 months, and then if it is not brought again, it will not reach agreement and then the provisional tariffs will be determined by the Ministry of Justice by the fact that in this bill it is not even stated anywhere or provided how much the provisional tariff may be in force and which, after that, will then be relocated to the Assembly again. Somewhere I think any changes to the law, including this one. So, apart from harmonising with the European Union, with EU legislation on the other hand, it should mean some progress or a improvement for Croatian citizenship. I believe that Croatian citizenship expects quick, cheap and effective court proceedings. They depend a lot on height, all of which depends on the level of legal fees, and I don't understand why the Croatian Parliament wants to follow the standards, and then maybe go ahead and not propose as many other countries a special law on legal tariffs. So, the government is going to refer this House to a draft law on legal tariffs, and then we're going to discuss in fact the model to which the level of the bar fees will be determined. This is how it seems to me that in all these discussions that we have had in recent months when these amendments and the additions of the Law on Attorneyship are being created somewhere a kind of fake picture as here now will be the Croatian Parliament that will be responsible and now we will actually be the ones who will enable cheaper bar fees. I'm afraid there's absolutely nothing there, and I'm calling on the government as well as my colleagues who used to say that, so that consent to legal tariffs is given first by the Ministry of Justice, and secondly to consider, in the process, that special law on the level of legal fees is being made in the Parliament, and then I think that we could talk in the right way to create such a model that will allow these tariffs to be cheaper, that access to courts is available to all citizens because I'm afraid that even when we pass the Law on the right to free legal assistance, that it is very much to say that a complicated administrative path that must pass that this assistance will not be available to the next largest citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6493	Thank you. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6494	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The main objective of harmonising this law with the acquis of the European Union should actually be to enable foreign lawyers, i.e. to lawyers from the European Union to work in the Republic of Croatia, of course after the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union and therefore it is not clear why, under the cover of the harmonisation of the law with European legislation, a legal tariff has also been found, that is, the way it is determined and adopted. This is even less clear if it is known that during the screening of the Law on Attorneyship, the European Commission did not actually have any objections to the tariff under which the work of a lawyer is valued. But obviously we ourselves want to be bigger Catholics than the Pope. In fact, the proposer himself in assessing the necessary means to implement this law says the following. The implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship does not require the provision of resources in the state budget. Now I stress this, because the attorney's office is an independent and independent service and the means for their work, lawyers provide themselves. Indeed, Croatian lawyers do not have a monopoly to represent in court, i.e. citizens in certain cases can represent themselves or through associations. The exception is cases of defence under official duty in criminal cases, asylum cases, and cases of free legal aid in which the tariff is determined by the State. In all other cases, lawyers face a competitive match on the market, and what will be the match when foreign lawyers join the European Union after Croatia's accession. As already mentioned in the European Union, there are Member States in which certain national authorities confirm the legal tariff adopted by the Bar Associations, but such incurring to a lawyer's tariff is characteristic exclusively for countries where the explosives of accession or representation before a court are guaranteed, which is not the case with us, so lawyers must be left with the freedom to determine the tariff. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about attorneyship as an independent and independent service and at the same time to determine its labour price. I don't want to be a lawyer to lawyers. They know how to defend themselves perfectly. But the fact is that legal tariffs for those cases most often triggered by citizens, which are labour disputes, divorces of marriages, disturbances of property, and the like are not really high. They are 500 kn and they are gross amounts from which we know that all lawyers must compensate for material costs. The second thing is with lawyers representing large public companies with high value of disputes, i.e. cases. That's where we know the profits are big, but there's not much of a lawyer like that. And in those cases, there is a necessary revision of the tariff in terms of its reduction. But I repeat, most lawyers are not millionaires. Finally, not long ago, the judges ’ salaries were raised significantly, thus stimulating them to greater efficiency. I wonder how the same effect is now being achieved, so an increase in the efficiency of the attorney's office wants to achieve by a completely opposite measure, a reduction in income through a reduced tariff. Therefore, this bill in the section relating to the establishment of a legal tariff is in fact a typical populist move that the government wants to show socially sensitive in a situation characterised by a completely inefficient judiciary on the one hand and a drastic decline in the standard of Croatian citizens on the other hand in its own inability to solve the problem, it is important for the government to find the culprit, and this time the scapegoat should be a lawyer. If it is to ensure access to legal assistance to socially endangered categories of citizens, then it is only the right way through the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and everything else is, in fact, a false concern for citizens on the one hand and a compromise of the independence of the legal profession on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6495	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6496	Thank you, Vice President. I may draw attention to the respected MPs that, in February 2004, the European Commission submitted a report on the competition in professional activities which called primarily for supervisory and regulatory authorities of individual free professions in Member States, including a lawyer, to examine how many regulations governing the implementation of those activities contribute to the clearly expressed legitimate and general interest. Therefore, according to the Commission's view, the regulatory measures of the state or professional associations which do not have a clear objective or purpose which is in line with the public interest or where the state is denied the power to exercise effective control over the enforcement of the regulation may constitute a breach of the provisions of the European Community on the protection of freedom of competition. And why am I telling you this? I'm telling you exactly because in 2004, they're lawyers, so the profession that's doing this activity, it's just been contrary to that public social goal. Because it is certainly not a public social goal to raise the price and bring such a price that makes it impossible for a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and especially for workers, but I will say that in my debate so that I do not speak twice now, that they are simply not able to pay for these 2004 legal fees so expensive services of lawyers that you have brought in 2004. It means that, and Croatia is going to the European Union, so it must be harmonised in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6497	Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6498	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. When it is already unable to control the prices of other food products, e.g. bread, milk, flour, sugar, baby food, health services or corruption, nepotism, e.g. At that time, our Government decides that through the Parliament as the highest legislative and representative body, it controls the prices of legal services. The reason is probably in the fact that more and more of our citizens are digging through garbage cans looking for directions, so that's why the government is helping them not to pay too expensive lawyers to seek justice. It will be a great contribution to the government's modest opportunities for the miserable standard of our citizens. In the light of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Lawyership, it is stated, inter alia, that the practice of European countries is different when it comes to legal tariffs. This cites examples of a number of countries, however, it is interesting to note that in none of these countries listed, the solution provided for by the bill is not practiced, i.e. that the most legislative body gives consent to tariffs. Moreover, according to the European Union report in most countries, compensation for professional services is freely negotiated between their providers and their parties. Therefore, a solution to the opposition to the reasoning of the law has been offered, but also with the constitutional position of the attorney's office which defines it as an independent and independent activity. The Council's consent to the legal tariff is prescribed by the constitutional position to be derrogated. If it has already gone on to agree why to be a little cynical then it has not gone a step further so that the Parliament directly prescribes the prices of legal services because in a practical sense it will be the same. In fact, there is no difference between giving consent and prescribing. No valid reason for the proposed solution shall be given in the explanation. No explanation is given as to why legal services are separated from other professional services, e.g. Doctor, architect, auditor. Does this mean that they are more important to the lives and standards of our citizens than all the listed and even greater number of unlisted services? If so, then the legislator indirectly suggests that legal services should be more expensive than others, they should be more expensive than they actually are. It would be interesting to indicate whether there is any profession in this country that does not charge its services, such as lawyers in the case of poor citizens. Have we ever heard of a homeless architect making a draft for free? That maybe a company with good products and hardworking workers, but in difficulties, the auditor did a free audit. We can put it like that forever. Whether this is a new solution is an expression of recognition to lawyers and their long tradition of providing free services to poor citizens. So instead of giving the profession the responsibility of recognition for what no other profession does, it is thus underrated and demoted. It is absurd that the solution offered practically determines the parliament's legal services and that the public record prices that are... the civil servants determine the Ministry of Justice. Does the government have any reason for this inconsistency? In doing so, we must stress that the number of law offices and the number of lawyers is not limited. It is not directly or indirectly prescribed as it is in public notebooks. This means that the number of these offices is unlimited, so whoever meets the requirements as it applies to any other profession can become a lawyer. That means the market is finally regulated by the number of lawyers. This team is more than lawyers are the only ones recommending that kind of service. It is known that there are other trade unions and different associations besides them, etc. Which means there's no such thing as their monopoly. Particular attention deserves to be given to the provision that the Croatian Bar of Law within three months of the entry into force of this law is required to adopt a legal tariff. This touches the acquired rights that are precedentd in legislative practice. In this way, it becomes the uncertain fate of many who have decided to call a lawyer, especially those whose job is not yet being followed, and this is the largest number of young lawyers. We're afraid that after... Judge's footage during the 1990s, whose consequences we'll long feel may come to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a lawyer's staff which will make the state of justice even more agreeable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, it is handled by large law offices, and against those small individuals with modest earnings, which will lead to a reduction in competitiveness, which is contrary to the interest of users of their services. That's why this bill seems hypocritical. In fact, citizens' interests seem to be protected, and in the end it can be shown that it was only in the interest of the so-called. The great lawyers and the ones not great in their knowledge, but by how much and how much they earn,... means lawyers representing state-owned enterprises, representing financial institutions through one submission, charge enormous amounts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they were the cause of these changes, then the purpose of this Law is missed. They will further strengthen and create a monopoly, and a large number of young lawyers with average or even below average earnings will fail. They will be forced to close their offices and as a labour force to work in so-called. big law offices. It is therefore not correct to look at one profession only through the profits of those greatest and immoral behaviors of individuals in each profession as if no one wants to know that there are among lawyers as well as other professions the largest number of honest professionals, as well as the number of those who are unable to pay for mastery and that they are modestly earning. It is necessary to welcome the possibility that lawyers can establish a limited liability company, but the applicant did not explain why the establishment of such a law firm requires a share capital of up to 350 thousand kuna, while it is generally known that under the Law on Commercial Companies, the underlying capital for the establishment of the d.o.o. amounts to 20 thousand kuna. We do not see that such a fundamental capital for the establishment of society has anything to do with the nature of the legal activity, because if practically and theoretically with 20 thousand kunas can be founded by the company d.o.o. which, for example, will To produce yachts and ships worth hundreds of thousands or several million euros, why would two lawyers have to single out 350 thousand kuna? So we're asking if it's not going to happen to big law offices and foreign lawyers who have the highest number of our regulars, so small lawyers won't be able to compete, because they won't have the money for such basic capital. Finally, we have to ask the question, why do lawyers deserve the attention of only 3,000 in the Republic of Croatia? Isn't it a political decision that a profession that has a long tradition as a constitutional position of independence and independence degrades or is something more ground floor? In fact, new legal solutions cannot be interpreted in any other way, but rather as throwing dust in the eyes of the Croatian public, because when they cannot solve problems in the judiciary they should offer an attractive topic, and the prices of legal services are certainly such a topic. That's why this proposal... these governments finally offer systematic solutions to the situation in the judiciary, which will make it even worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6499	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6500	Dear Vice President, State Secretary and fellow MPs. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship not only complies with the directives of the European Union, but not only does it prescribe clear rules under which domestic lawyers will have competition in foreign counterparts, in their activities, I think that, and that we have, in fact, all of us in the debate so far, in some way address and regulate the issue, the establishment of legal tariffs which will continue to be determined by the Bar of Lawyers, but which, or which will not be applied without the consent of the Croatian Parliament. It's actually something that's very important at this point, because for now, as you know, the bar fees are determined, the lawyers themselves bring in, so the Bar Association and the consequence of this very monopoliestic way of determining the tariffs, the fees on the prizes and fees for the work of the attorneys were passed in early July 2004 when astronomically collected legal services, so the price of the lawyer's hours jumped from about 40 kuna to 500 kuna, so for a little more than 10 times the costs, i.e. the price of lawyers, and, for example, in criminal proceedings with 200 kuna on the head amounts of over several thousand kuna. All of this was normally overrun by a glass and there was this indignation of Croatian citizens and trade unions, and since then, in principle, unions have been trying to prevent this monopolies determination of legal tariffs all the way up to this point here at some point when it is somehow trying to alleviate this proposed law. I must say that it is simply impossible and very difficult to pay these expensive tariffs to most citizens of the Republic of Croatia normally and to workers, so that legal services have become a privilege for rich and, in fact, a nightmare for poor citizens. How can a worker with an average salary or an hour's price of 29 kuna pay a 500 kuna lawyer's watch? Well, he'd basically have to mean for that one-hour lawyer's job to work for almost 18 hours or over two days, not to mention working captains with the lowest wage who would have to work all week to pay for one hour's legal work. So simply those prices that the lawyers brought to themselves through the Chamber, and you can see for yourself that a megalomaniac project of these lawyers was, and normally, it caused such a storm that it was normal today that it showed great interest to talk about it here today. The Competition Protection Agency, which was already mentioned, replied at the request of the trade union on that model of pricing of legal services that it does not know any European system that determines the price as defined by our Bar Association. The Agency has also established that there are two basic models of determining legal tariffs, so it says, the first model is present in most of the legal systems of the Member States of the European Union, and determines the free negotiation of the award between lawyers and the party, but normally under certain conditions, in that case, the reward of the lawyer is determined according to precisely established criteria, such as the specialisation of the lawyer, the urgency of the procedure, the quality of the work, the experience of the lawyer, the type of proceedings, the jurisdiction of the court, the value of the dispute cases, etc. The second is that the prizes are fixed by tariff. However, the tariff is not passed by the bar, but has been determined by law or regulation of the Ministry of Justice. For example, Slovakia's level of legal tariff relates to the average remuneration of employees. So there's one social note in determining the legal tariffs. It doesn't suck. Logically, there have already been speeches as much as workers generally use and how much they need legal services in a mass of cases. According to one of the comparative representations of legal tariffs in the Republic of Croatia compared to the countries of the European Union whose citizens have even higher standards and much higher standards than Croatia, but have lower legal tariffs and pay lower prices of legal services than we pay in Croatia. For example, while the hours of work of lawyers in Croatia are worth 500 kuna, this same hour of work in Slovenia is worth 350 kuna. And we know that the average salary in Slovenia is twice as high as in Croatia. The current system of tariffs is archaic and thus tailored contributes to delaying proceedings in court. The legal tariff should be charged according to the stages of the court procedure as set out in the German law. Namely, for five discussions on the same case in Croatia, the lawyer will receive a fee five times. And in Germany, that lawyer will only get that fee once, so it is logical that it is then in the interest of that lawyer in Germany to complete the procedure as soon as possible, and logically it should be that he contributes in principle to the entire judiciary, we would not have so many cases pending that went into obsolescence, etc. Therefore, the trade unions are certainly right when they ask that in Croatia, along with this Law on Attorneyship, a special Law on determining the legal tariffs that many countries of the European Union have and which in some ways is designed to force lawyers to conclude disputes in the interests of their parties as quickly as possible, and logically as I have told the entire judiciary. That is why, while we are waiting for this Law on Legal Tariffs, I must say that this Bill on Lawyership is positive in that sense, because until then the Croatian Parliament will be a social filter for those who pay expensive fees today, expensive legal services, and will normally expect this Parliament to have one social note and then those tariffs that are going to be proposed to think carefully whether or not they will be accepted, because, as I mentioned earlier, Slovakia takes care of even that social component, and this is about the height of the social meaning of existential, so normally Croatia will then and the Croatian Parliament are expected to have that social note. It will also be possible to influence future prices for legal services. Although I say I advocate that a special Law on Bargains should be passed in Croatia, because then justice would be more accessible to all citizens and workers of this country. Unfortunately today, at these prices, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6501	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Gordana Sobol's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6502	So here's a colleague of Kunst's. I would, in fact, probably in most of your exposure agree with what you've been saying about the union's views. However, in a way in cohesion, it is that you spoke with your conclusion that the Croatian Parliament will, in fact, now give consent to the legal tariffs, that we will actually be a social filter. Maybe we would be, but only if those tariffs were proposed by the Department of Justice, not one chamber, a bar. Now for me, I'm thinking about whether that would mean that tomorrow anyone from the government can remember that as a Parliament, we're going to be agreeing on any other tariffs. I am definitely here to agree with the representative of your club when he also called on the government from this pay phone to consider changing this provision and that in the way that it is done in all other European countries, that the consent to tariffs is given by the Ministry of Justice until then in the ultimate line, until the government eventually decides to go out in this House with the Law on the Altitude of Legal Tariffs in the way you discussed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6503	The answer to the replica is representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6504	I was saying that this is a positive shift. In that case, it is positive that this monopoly should be given to what it finds to be applicable in principle. So at this point, the bar will still determine the price, but we'll be the ones to see if that price is acceptable or not. And so we'll be able to refuse that price and send it to some correctional exam. I say it's in that sense positive. I agree completely with you that, the ministry could do the same thing and there's no problem here, but if it's not already foreseen by this law, I think this is positive enough for us to be that social filter, as I said, to take care of that one social component related to those legal prices, the price of legal services. But I think, and I repeat again, it would be good to pass a special law in Croatia on, so as I have already said, establishing legal tariffs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6505	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6506	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The bar is not the only chamber that has the right to prescribe prices in us, so we are witnessing both the auditors' and the companies of engineers and geodesys, and other professional groups that prescribe tariffs, only these tariffs concern a larger number of people, or users, and the relationship to these tariffs is obviously more sensitive. What this law contains is that every time a question settles in a different way or changes at the same time gives an answer to the bad influences that this change might have. So if we look to allow this law and amendments to the entry of foreign law firms into Croatia, of course, on the day of entry into the European Union, we also give the possibility that our law firms can operate as companies of capital, limited liability societies and thus be partially fenced from that unconditional guarantee with their entire assets. However, in order not to keep this from the parties to whom the services are provided at the same time and to increase the amount of insurance necessary, a quality underlying capital which can also be guaranteed by those who suffer damage due to the irregular, irregular or reckless action of a lawyer or a law firm to have from which it is settled. Therefore, the risk of damage is secured with higher amounts of insurance, higher underlying capital, disciplinary measures are imposed on the loss of the right of permanent exercise in the event that the more serious acts of injury are carried out and the periods of limitation are increased in certain cases due to violations of duty and thus are also affected by lawyers to act more consciously. What is obviously most interesting in these amendments, which are tariffs cannot be broader and clearer insight into tariffs than the consent of this Assembly, and in any case, the solution of one of the possible and chosen ones is that which will allow both the Parliament and the public and, nevertheless, the Bar Association of Lawyers to participate in the adoption of tariffs and therefore the suggestion in the production of tariffs would be the Bar Association when they will make a proposal for this Chamber either to think about sharing their work in a way that the reward is part of fixed work, so for what they did and what they did and for which they lost time or a certain shop but also part of the work results. In fact, here you could say that often times in the tariff itself, the results of the work or success in the litigation are not valued as the criterion on which the legal tariff would depend. And of course, when determining that tariff, they take into account that the biggest prize is for those disputes that have been settled with a lawyer outside the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6507	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6508	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government. At the beginning of my debate, I will say why I cannot support this amendment and the addition of the Law on Lawyership in this form. We would have one of the most important motives for this law, of course, with the need to define the additional law and all the needs that have arisen in the meantime, or the law should now define it to enable Croatian citizens to have cheaper and faster or cheaper and faster judicial procedures and to allow access to the judiciary of all citizens. In Croatia today, access to justice is given in a quality way only by citizens who are able to pay for it. In Croatia today, the opinion is that it is less important whether you are guilty or not than whether you have the money to pay for a lawyer and get top legal help. This law and the way in which legal tariffs are established will continue to contribute to the affirmation of such an opinion. Instead of the solution under which the bar tariff is adopted and determined by the Bar Association with this proposal, it is proposed that the fees be determined in a way that the tariff determines and brings the chamber with the previous consent of the Assembly. So it's not the same as it was before just with the Parliament's consent and I'd say it's not the neck. It's the neck. The government has thus confirmed that it does not want to take over European standards that provide for legal regulation of legal tariffs but continues to support the legal overpayment of services paid by citizens and businesses. The proposed proposal is a cosmetic change and does nothing more important and serves only to calm the public and a little blurring her eyes so that it can be said that the Parliament has some control over determining the amount of tariffs. In my debate, I would argue that tariffs should be governed by the special Law on Bargain Tariffs as it exists in Germany, Austria, Spain and such a model was taken over by Slovenia as a solution. The proposed way of regulating legal tariffs will still not solve the problem of the long-term length of court proceedings because the existing model of determining the legal tariffs just encourages a delay in proceedings and lengthy litigation. Since it's a longer court case, it's in the interest of lawyers, so the same ones who bring those tariffs. How illogical it is and how much more expensive it is for our citizens in the end tells you that the legal services in Croatia are by some calculations and up to 58% more expensive than in one Germany, for example. When we look at a comparative analysis of tariffs in Germany and Croatia, we see that on a dispute worth 40 thousand euros one fee for one store in Germany is 900 euros and in Croatia 680 euros, but as counterpart Kunst said just before in Germany you will charge once and in Croatia you can charge five, ten, fifteen or twenty times. So that fee could be 6.9 or 12,000 euros. Simpler terms in Croatia are 27% European, all other prices at 70% European level, and the legal service is much more expensive than the European ones, as I said in the case of Germany, even 58% more expensive than in Germany. According to my information, the request for legal regulation of the legal tariffs in Croatia was supported by trade unions, NGOs, businesses and many prominent individuals. Nevertheless, the government has sent this proposal to the parliamentary procedure for amendments and additions, which defines that the Croatian Bar of Law continues to propose what tariffs will be. But since the rules are one thing and the real life is another. A lot of lawyers don't charge everything they can on the tariff. So Croatian citizens don't even know how expensive they will pay, but it depends on their ability to negotiate and the goodwill of a lawyer not to charge them for some of the activities he has done. The only one I know for sure is that with pleasure of paying the bar fees are large public companies and public institutions. For example, I know that every lawyer's dream is if he has a material interest in getting one such client, for example, a large public firm, and then he's secured himself for life. Of course, legal services are also not subject to public procurement obligations under the Public Procurement Act, so if you are the director of a large public firm you can choose anyone and pay him astronomical fees for a job he does. This is about hundreds of thousands of kunas spent most often on routine jobs and at prices set by lawyers themselves through the bar. In order to introduce order in this area, in order to make legal services more accessible to citizens, in order to stimulate out-of-court dispute resolution, and not to encourage a delay in proceedings and litigation, I support the initiative to prescribe in the proposal for this law that the legal tariff is laid down in the Law on Legal Tariffs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6509	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6510	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I am not a lawyer, nor a lawyer, but I am like every Croatian citizen daily surrounded by justice, justice, injustice and punishment that is present in the Republic of Croatia. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship does not constitute any European gain, nor does it have anything to do with the European Union, in particular this Article 3., which states that lawyers have the right to award for their work, and the cost of the work carried out in accordance with the tariff established and adopted by the Chamber and what is most disputed with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. Now I ask all of you MPs, i.e. MPs and MPs when Croatian workers will have that tariff for minimum, medium or high wages that will allow them to live decently from their work. When will Croatian peasants, or when will this Assembly bring these tariffs to enable Croatian peasants, family economies to live from their work? Also, when this Croatian Parliament will bring and harmonise Croatian pensions. I don't mean these privileged pensions, I don't mean the pensions of Parliamentarians. You'll be two years in this holy house one day and you have the right to a privileged pension. That's very nice. I'm against it. There will be an initiative to abolish it retroactively. Well, you guys yell ops, so maybe you'll jump! The other thing that happens to this law is if it wasn't just with, I'd ask you to listen a little bit. This isn't just about lawyers or attacking a legal profession here. This is happening with other chambers because you are forced past the framework and beyond what many have given life in the 1990s to make Croatia free, independent, and above all, a market country. It happens with other professions like projectors, such as surveillance, such as a number of other professions. So if someone wants to go out in that part of the free market, if that's what makes it possible for them to order works then they're driving them out of such chambers because it's just the market that should apply to all the same conditions. And this is exactly this tariff, I would like it to be with this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship to simply in one respect that they were also legal tariffs as well as a proposal for new tariffs. Then everyone would see together that an average Croatian citizen with these average incomes cannot possibly face the Croatian judiciary, or take a lawyer. Not in front of this judiciary that's just going to change the board, and the important things aren't going to work out at all. The question to be raised by these amendments and the additions of the Law on Attorneyship are certainly these large ones, these great levies for opening lawyers' offices. That is why there are insurance companies that can ensure a possible failure in the dispute, i.e. a mistake in the dispute but cannot be so large in your terms, or if these are really necessary amounts for the opening of any company or with limited liability or liability as is the most in Croatia then my proposal is to increase that amount from 20,000 kn to 20 million kn. The question raised by this law, i.e. amendments to the law here, also enables foreign law firms to be opened. I ask the question whether Europe agreed before Croatia's entry into the European Union, whether it had agreed to its legislation, so it allowed our lawyers to open law offices before entering the European Union. I don't think they work for a foreign company, but simply to open a Croatian law firm in Europe. What is most in the eye is that if this Chamber of Justice is defined in Article 31 within 2 months, it does not deliver that tariff to the Croatian Parliament that these tariffs will, by what principle, be determined by the Minister of Justice, bring a tariff on awards and compensation for the costs of the work of a lawyer. Finally, I call on this House, because I do not doubt that these amendments and amendments to the law in view of the number of votes in the House that have been passed, I do not dispute it, and the ability to negotiate, I call on the Parliament to put into the next session of the Parliament and you, Mr. President, a simple law that would regulate the salaries of workers, the receiving of peasants, pensions in Croatia and therefore give consent to one such tariff that will not be passed for pensioners by the Croatian Party of Retired People but will bring it to the trade unions. Same for the workers, same for the peasants. And on the other hand, I believe that these amendments and the addition of the Law on Attorneyship will in any case not rebirth the situation in the Croatian judiciary, nor will this previous law only do so with changes to the panels in the municipal courts but will bring about a real reform of the judiciary. I think the Minister of Justice is very aware of the fact that he is doing these kind of legal tariffs, and at the same time the level of the judges' salaries, most of the experienced judges in the Republic of Croatia are leaving the Ministry of Justice right now in the law firm. So here are these few initiatives, given that this is not an emergency procedure law, and here I am calling on all MPs to support the future initiative to abolish these privileged pensions. I think we're all here not for wages but for citizens, for their own sakes, not for their own interests and retroactively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6511	Thank you. The final review of the Minister of Justice, Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6512	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And here at the end of this debate that was held in front of this High House, we can see that there was interest, that there was a suggestion, that there were also thoughts that were something different from what was laid out in the bill. As interesting as this law is, this debate today also shows how important it is in the end for both Croatian citizens and lawyers only as an independent and constitutional category. Solutions across Europe from the establishment of legal tariffs are different. This bill went in the sense of changing what was so far by law, which is that one professional service that was provided was determined exclusively by that profession without any regulatory component. Since this regulatory component is recognised as something that is acceptable in the European Union, we have proposed this proposal that, nevertheless, some supervision, some regulatory body in this case, we have suggested that it be the Croatian Parliament, precisely because of the extremely high interest and public interest in this problem, to allow a broad debate. Of course, since this is about first reading, we heard other proposals, and that was also the urgency to discuss it and remain an open possibility, we will carefully consider all the remarks that have been made in the debate and come with the final proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6513	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6514	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. That was the first reading. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the following conclusions. First. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyership is hereby adopted. Second. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. You're welcome to vote on the conclusions. Let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? These conclusions were adopted by a majority of 77 votes for, 4 abstentions and 36 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6515	The following two points are closely linked, and this is the proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act, and I propose a joint discussion. If we agree to conduct a united debate on these two bill proposals? Okay. Nine. Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, with the Final Proposal for Law, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 34, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 35 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Care, legislation, European integration. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Ante Zvonimir Golem, please explain the proposal of one law and another.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6516	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So you have two legislative proposals that complement each other. In 2005 in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Chemicals which regulates the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals, which therefore regulates all transactions on the part of production, transport, import and export and use of chemicals and dangerous chemicals in the Republic of Croatia. As far as serious matter at European Union level is concerned, a single regulation has been adopted in 2006, which practically deals with the same problem. This Regulation, which is binding in the Member States of the European Union, is unique at Union level and is not transposed into national legislation but is subject to that regulation where it is regulated to establish, at European Union level, the European Chemicals Agency as a single body to be responsible for the registration, certification, monitoring of all chemical transport, monitoring the imports of chemicals into the Member States of the European Union, for the monitoring of the exports of chemicals, but also for the exchange of data on the emergence of new chemicals and possible new hazards, such as here these days, has been present in the media, attention has been raised again regarding the presence of a chemical in plastic that can have a direct impact on health. This Regulation shall apply in the national legislation of the European Union in a way that provides for national acts to be adopted in order to determine which body will monitor the implementation of that European Regulation in national law, i.e. in that State and which measures will be taken against those which do not comply with those Regulations. Accordingly, this Regulation shall enter into force on 1 June of the European Union, whichever is the case before you is a legislative proposal which has in the same way decided to adopt a law implementing a regulation in which the legislative proposal therefore speaks who and how it will control the implementation, the regulation and what it will all be taken against whoever violates certain provisions of this Regulation. This proposal for a law is adopted at this time for the simple reason why it will enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, however, it is a serious issue which is of great interest to the Croatian economy among other things because from the date of entry into force of the regulation at the level of the European Union, this means from 1 June, Croatian businessmen who will not have registered products from the field of chemistry in the European agency which, its headquarters is in Helsinki, Finland, and will not be able to export to the Member States of the European Union. In this way, by adopting this regulation, and with the date of entry into force of the date of accession to the European Union, the process now being implemented in the Republic of Croatia, which is education and access to Croatian economies which are all obligations and what they must do in order to maintain or possibly expand markets in the field of the European Union on the day of entry into force of the regulation. During the period until a regulation enters into force, certain elements of this Regulation are transposed in this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law of Chemicals into our Croatian legislation, so to speak, the Chemical Act. In particular, certain chapters of the European Union Directive, in the Rotterdam Convention on Dangerous Chemicals and pesticides in international trade, which are now complemented by the provisions on the export of dangerous chemicals, and yet another part of this proposal, is that according to the recommendations of HItro.rests, what was spoken about in this Assembly is the safety technical sheet with isonorm which is now required in the Republic of Croatia and which will also be required in the countries in the European Union according to this Regulation to simplify the importance of adopting a safety-technical list in a way that all solutions and implementations, which are carried out in the eyewitnesses of the Republic of Croatia, are no longer required... who receives, or the body issuing the safety-technical certificate, shall, under official duty, receive documentation from these registers in which we will ensure a simpler registration procedure and all other procedures in the definition of chemicals for different needs, means for imports, for export or for the establishment of new chemicals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that, in some way, in the beginning, if it is said, the procedure and what is clearly to be referred to as economic operators, in the chemical procedure, these two legislative proposals are complemented in a way that national legislation, means the Law on Chemicals, which is valid until the date of accession to the European Union, or which will prescribe all these provisions laid down by the regulation in national legislation, that the Regulation will take over a certain part of the national legislation, but that it will continue to apply certain provisions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, especially in that part which is not regulated by the regulations, and that the body that is supervised in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Croatian toxicology office, will also be administratively strengthened until the date of accession, in order to be able to perform the pre-registration of all and all the other above-mentioned tasks which will then be forwarded to the European Chemicals Agency. For all other questions, I'm available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6517	Thank you. Committees, European integration, legislation, health care and social care. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, respected representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6518	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on Chemicals. This Law is one of those laws that most often does not give too much attention and at first sight solves something, obviously something simple and uninteresting, but this Law actually addresses an extremely important issue for society as a whole, which is the protection of life and the health of citizens, and the protection of the environment. In addition, this Law falls within the order of laws which are fundamental to the law of adapting our system to the European system. We passed the last Chemical Act in 2005, so I must conclude that it is a shame that until the harmonisation of the laws of the European Union it has been three years. This Law is precisely because we have long waited for its adoption to be a good example of the ineffectiveness and slowness of our administration in the preparation of a common society for entry into the European Union. Namely, when large stage reflectors are turned off and politically attractive and demagogue subjective subjects are placed on the scene, the real topics of everyday life affecting all of us, and we are normally not aware of it. It's only then that we begin to see how much work we have ahead of us. It will not help us to apply stricter rules to Croatia than those that have applied to other countries, because this is about rules, so we must apply for our sake, indeed for our sake, and the current rule acts as if all rules and laws were made only to fulfil obligations towards the European Union. However, the SDP advocates' club will support the adoption of this law and there are several reasons for this. First, it is a law that regulates the handling of chemicals dangerous to human health and the environment, so from the reporting of new substances to the production, transport and use of dangerous chemicals, and we believe that this is an extremely important issue. In the last 70 years, the production of chemicals in the world has increased by as much as 400 times, and in terms of strength and volume of production, the chemical industry is the fourth force of the European economy. Overall, 1.2 billion tons of different chemicals are produced worldwide. Today, there are more than 100,000 chemical products on the European market, and for the vast majority of them there has never been an expert assessment of their long-term effects on life, human health and the environment. More and more scientific research shows that diseases such as asthma, certain types of cancer and diseases associated with certain professions are often the result of a certain degree of harmful chemical properties of the environment. Therefore, it is about substances that are a major threat to health and life and a market failure of chemicals caused by the ignorance or protection of the interests of manufacturers and traders taking an increasing toll both in the number of damages and in the large financial expenditures for the recovery of damages. In establishing a new European Union security system, so-called Croatia also participates in the "REACH" project. And that's good. We welcome that. The REACH project is therefore one of the most complex issues dealing with European legislation. And the project aims to create a European control framework for chemical products and protection of human health. We simply have to create preconditions to be part of that system. It's our imperative. And that's what I believe we agree on. It's very important to us. But how we're going to do it, how long it's going to take us, and whether we're going to be smart enough to get this whole extensive job of harmonising regulations and practices with the European Union in the field of chemicals, we get professional and financial assistance from pre-accession funds, that certainly depends on us. Only about us. It would be good to look up to Slovenia. For example, for the establishment of its chemical safety system, Slovenia received two PHARE programmes totalling 2m euros and several bilateral aid projects. The question is, what about us? If it is to judge the day after morning, we have reason to be a little concerned about the difference, I mentioned Slovenia and some other countries that joined the European Union in 2004, which have spent up to 10 years of systematic work to bring regulations and practices into line with the European Commission's assistance. Croatia is a great energy, I must say, spent on wandering about choosing competences over protecting human health and the environment from dangerous chemicals. This bill leaves little dilemmas. I don't think we can solve them. But we need to be aware of them. In Helsinki, as we have heard from Mr. Secretary of State, the Central European Chemicals Agency has started working to create a register of 30,000 chemicals in the next ten years. All chemicals to be produced and introduced in quantity of more than 1 tonnes will have to be reported to an agency which will have data on quantities and how dangerous individual chemicals are. The Agency's application is imperative and there are no free shooters outside or within the European Union. And as we have heard, already this year this provision will also come into force for Croatian businessmen. Appropriations for such chemicals will only be issued if they are shown to be treated safely and the social benefit of their use is important. And now I'm setting up a key dilemma that the passing of this law puts before us. Do we have experts on the market today who will be able to implement the REACH project? Do we have an expert team? Did we, for example? Have you considered regional implementation of the Reach programme? What about Croatian businessmen coming to the European market? We have heard that education is being implemented in terms of helping economies, but I think it is not clear enough in which segments and how it is being implemented is said. So, which body, which the institution has already helped them today, helps them prepare quality for what they expect this year. Do they even know what's waiting for them? And who's going to help them, for example? In the re-registration period? Did we secure "help desks" in which, for example, We included the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? And finally what about those who will not appear on the European market until Croatia enters the European Union? What, then, about businessmen who will join the European Union and themselves on the European market with their products and thus enter the European chemical market control system? What about them? How do we prepare them? Are we even aware that they should be prepared for that? What about the witness education system? Eyewitnesses for the entire country are being taken to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology today. How did we finally imagine the role and importance of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology in the coming years and when we enter the European Union? I'm closing up. Quality preparation, the use of pre-accession funds and above all education, the education of all relevant subjects is a key prerequisite for the Chemical Law in order to be able to say with certainty that at no time and at any level we will not be able to get into cohesion with the protection of life and health of people and the protection of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6519	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6520	Thank you very much. My colleague made two incorrect allegations that I would correct. First, she said we were late for the regulation. Too bad we didn't include it in the law we passed in 2005. We could not bring it in because this Regulation was published in the European Community in December 2006. So we couldn't pass the 2005 law, which was the last one we passed. And another incorrect statement that we are late to withdraw from pre-accession funds. We have a 2006 IPA program. The Resort Ministry of Health and Social Care meets in dynamics exactly all conditions as prescribed. And the money will be withdrawn within the prescribed time limit. Therefore, neither is it late with the regulation and its integration into the law nor is it late with the withdrawal of funds. In this area, however, we are in dynamics significantly ahead of neighbouring, friendly Slovenia compared to the time when they started negotiations and when we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6521	Thank you. Club of Representatives HNS Honorable Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6522	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The chemical industry is of course an important part of an advanced and sustainable society that brings together about 31 thousand chemical and pharmaceutical companies with around 2 million jobs. The leading exporters of the European Union waste more than 50% of world exports and we heard the chemical industry is already the fourth power of the European economy, the chemical industry is also one of the main industrial sectors in Croatia. We are surrounded by chemicals at every step, not only cleaning products, cosmetics, paints and varnishes, but also with chemicals produced furniture, household appliances and also shoes and clothing in everyday use. The Council of the European Chemical Industry is trying to change the polluting image of the chemical industry and is seeking the application of the chemical control programme to show that the chemical industry is a responsible partner in society to be perceived and respected differently by society. The Council of the European Commission also gathers chemicals that produce and protect consumer rights because we should bear in mind that chemicals are not only used for the consequences of pollution but also for water treatment. They are therefore not only a problem but also a contribution to the reduction of pollution. The road to this regulation that we are discussing today in Croatia began in Europe ten years ago in order to publish in December 2006 the Reach Regulation on registration I will tell the evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals that entered into force 1.6.2007 and represents the establishment of a new system of chemical safety. The road for cooperation with the European Union in this area has opened Croatia in 2005 by adopting a new Chemical Act. The characteristics of this Regulation are that it lays down specific obligations for manufacturers, importers and users of chemicals in a way that does not affect health and the environment. The key elements of the chemical safety programme are that responsibility in working with chemicals is transferred from power to industry, i.e. Manufacturers and importers are obliged to demonstrate that their chemicals which they wish to give to the European market are safe for human health and the environment, that information on hazards and risks will be transmitted to the supply chain with the obligation to exchange data on testing and testing costs and a special manner of authorisation for high risk chemicals. The law implementing this European Regulation will, after its entry into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union, also produce financial obligations for Croatian companies in the form of registration fees to be paid to the European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki, which co-ordinates the tasks between Member States, offers technical, professional advice, informs the public. Registration fees shall be financed by the Agency's work. Prices are known to be valid until 2013 in the range of a thousand 600 euros for chemicals produced in quantities of one to 10 tonnes and up to 31 thousand euros for chemicals produced in quantities exceeding a thousand tonnes. But there are also discounts for micro, small and medium-sized companies of 90, 60 and 30%. It is some thirty thousand chemicals produced or imported into the European Union in order to continue producing or importing tens of thousands of manufacturers and importers will have to pre-register chemicals including acids, metals, diluents, surface-active substances, glues, etc. this year. In the next eleven years, the European Chemical Agency from Helsinki will register the 30,000 chemicals. Registration of chemicals will take place in several phases, this year pre-registration, in 2010 registration of chemicals produced and imported in quantities over a thousand tonnes, in 2013 registration of quantities of 100 to 1,000 tonnes and in 2008 registration of quantities of chemicals above one ton. Registration costs including testing are estimated at 2.3 billion euros over eleven years and effects if the programme manages to reduce the chemicals caused by only 10% of the health benefits are estimated at 50 billion euros over 30 years, with the preservation of several thousand human lives annually. Already, a colleague said that more than 1.2 billion tons of different chemicals are produced worldwide annually. Most of these chemicals are old substances with which mankind will have severe accidents and our knowledge of them is still very lacking. In 70 years, a thousand times the production of chemicals increased, and until not so long ago the surveillance was extremely bad. Epidemiological research and serious chemical accidents show that in the past period trade has been overcome by prudence. Because of the diseases and accidents caused by chemicals, public pressure was increasing, the cost of treatment and the damages caused by human injury, due to exposure to old dangerous substances far exceeded the price of necessary research. The annual cost of treatment for allergies in Europe today exceeds 20 billion euros and toxicological research of 30,000 dangerous substances should not exceed 200m euros per year in ten years. On the other hand, it has been shown that only 2,000, 700 new substances have been registered over 20 years because the system was prone to the use of old substances. It was more logical to use old substances regardless of their dangerous properties than to invest huge funds in non-competitive new substances. These other reasons forced the European Commission to establish a new system of registration, evaluation, authorisation and restrictions on chemicals. His basic idea is simple. Manufacturers and importers must produce detailed documentation, means toxicology, chemistry, etc. and hand it over to the Central European Chemicals Agency for Registration. Then comes the second phase of evaluation in which chemicals with little or no danger will be isolated and placed on the market without further complications. Those chemicals that pose a significant danger, such as carcinogenicity, reproductive toxicity, environmental stability, and others, go into phase four. It assesses whether such a dangerous chemical can replace less danger and, if possible, put it on the list of banned chemicals. Where a replacement is not possible, it shall attempt to establish the conditions of its very effective supervision and, if not possible, shall be placed on the list of prohibitions. It should be further mentioned that the responsibility for chemicals is no longer only on the manufacturer and importer but is passed on to large users and that the regulation pays particular attention to the protection of laboratory animals with a view to reducing the number of attempts. to improve the work of the European Authority which decides on the approval of alternative non-animal attempts. Finally, the question of how the new system will reflect on the market will be seen in a year when it comes into practice, but the elements of general concern particularly expressed in medium and small enterprises due to the costs of registration, the increase of costs in the supply chain or the loss of production and the costs of the replacement of chemicals fall into the water before positive effects on human health and life. I'm done. The Croatian People's Party will also support this Regulation and the Chemical Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6523	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HSS respected representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6524	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support both of these draft laws, hence the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, as well as amendments and additions to the Chemical Act. It is clear that we had to accept REACH as a prerequisite for continuing negotiations with the European Union, but because of the fact that it will have an impact on our exporters as of this year. It should be pointed out that from 1 June to the end of November they have to carry out the pre-registration procedure in Helsinki because otherwise they will not be able to initiate the registration procedure, or they will no longer be able to export to European Union countries, which, of course, will have consequences for their financial operations in the long term. This means that we must now start applying the REACH program provision. For example, a way of drawing up safety-technical sheets, helping exporters adapt to REACH requirements and so on. But of course it should be mentioned that REACH cannot enter into force in Croatia until we join the European Union. But that doesn't mean we have to wait, but that means we have to prepare. The amendments to the Chemical Act are precisely because of this and are done to adapt the REACH Programme and these two laws are closely linked. Our point of view is that at the right time we are passing the REACH Program Act, because any delay would be a problem for our exporters. The delay in application is also good, so the delay in application until the entry into the European Union. Because at the moment, a number of Croatian market manufacturers would not be able to perform before registration because of the fact that the Central European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki cannot receive applications for pre-registration for the placing of substances in countries outside the European Union and only unnecessary confusion would be created. However, by joining the European Union, our obligations to the REACHA agency will apply to the Croatian market, so it is good to have enough time left to prepare our businesspeople who place products exclusively in the territory of Croatia. The chemistry sector in the European Union only takes up 6% of the labour force in the processing industry, but therefore around 50% of the world's imports and exports include exactly the sector that puts it at the very top of importance. The Croatian chemistry sector, together with the processing of plastics, employs about 19,000 workers, which is only 8% of the workers in the processing industry. However, in the structure of the gross-national income of the processing industry, it participates with more than 10%. It should be noted that the chemical industry in Croatia, of course, except Petrokemia, which is still mostly privatised in majority state ownership. Of course, European companies have introduced order into chemicals with this law because they have significantly burdened them with reduced prices and poor quality of production from China and India. The exploitation of workers there by poor labour prices without any control, protection at work, without environmental protection and labour rights lowers the price of their products. REACH will, however, support their participation in the European Union market. However, this will introduce order among other manufacturers and further users of chemical products. According to estimates, not only will large market players profit from everything but also small and medium-sized players who will have to find ways of mutual cooperation to avoid high costs of the testing and registration process. REACH replaced 90 old laws that were obviously not effective or followed the progress of science and technology, the protection of workers and the environment in the chemical sector. The implementation of REACH over 11 years is expected to cost between 3 billion and 5 billion euros. However, it is also expected that if the chemicals caused by the disease are managed to be reduced by 10% of health savings, up to 50 billion euros over 30 years, which is certainly significant progress. Because we have to remember in the second half of the last century, there have been hits one after the other asbestos, benzene, vinyl chloride, monomer, DDT, dioxins, furans just isolated examples. With the occurrence of severe chronic damage such as cancers and reproductive harmful students, we must also mention that allergies are nevertheless the first to occur according to frequency over the last few decades. The annual cost of treatment for allergies in Europe today exceeds 20 billion euros, and toxicological research of 30,000 dangerous substances should not exceed 200m euros per year in 10 years. At least until the end of the 1970s, chemical surveillance was extremely bad. The European Commission's basic guidelines regulated the area of classification, labelling and packaging of new dangerous substances, and later much was done on restrictions and prohibitions on the use of substances with severe chronic effects. However, it was not possible to make greater progress on the old and famous substances of more than 100,000 and in fact somehow the problem was intended to be solved because it was almost impossible to determine who had to pay for the costs of testing and to bear the burden of a possible ban or restrictions on the use of a particular substance. Most of them expired patent protection and produced them who wanted them and the way he wanted them to, so it was hard to find someone who would only pay for the research. In addition, for most dangerous substances, it was not possible to find an appropriate substitute for asbestos, since their dangerous properties were not known and have not been verified. How the process of testing lasts very long and represents a great burden for the state administration itself, but also because of the complicated administration, it prevents innovative development of the chemical industry. It was necessary to establish this new REACH system, and we believe that no matter what dilemmas are being opened, especially when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, but also whether companies themselves will actually move their production to some countries where there is no strict regulation, they will really adhere to the law. We believe that the Reich rules should be respected worldwide wherever they operate and that the application of the Reach will allow consumers to control the producers themselves because it is prescribed that if an interest in a product and chemical is shown within 45 days, the interested party must receive an answer. We therefore believe that it is absolutely the right time for the Law on the Implementation of this Regulation and the Chemical Act itself to be adopted in the Croatian Parliament and therefore will support their adoption by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6525	Thank you. Croatian Democratic Union Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6526	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have an unusually important law, a law that depends on a lot of life on the one hand, the ecological situation on the one hand, and on the other hand the economic breakthrough of trade, production and transport of chemicals. That's why it was rightly observed here that we were wandering in the legislation. But the only one who has been wandering more than us in the legislation is the countries of the European Union. So we've been wandering equally, but not because we're incompetent or because they're incompetent, but because there's a great conflict of interest. I'll just remind you that over 10,000 dangerous chemicals have been registered today, that production has grown in the last 70 years in the world over 400 times. To produce 400 million tonnes of chemicals annually, which of course have their own financial value, their commercial value and of course their own use in the economy. The chemical industry in the world is the fourth in power. So it's about the great economic interest and the pressure on all countries to put as low as possible, simpler conditions into the market of these chemicals. On the other hand, the struggle to preserve human health and environmental health does not allow it. In that conflict, he was wandering, not intricacies or incompetence. The scariest fact is that even 80% of the dangerous chemicals that are in transport in Europe, and even wider, do not have a complete list of their properties. It's a very dangerous piece of information. For illustration only as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we produce about 3 million tonnes of different chemicals annually. More than 11,000 employees were employed in the industry, therefore it is also a significant economic branch for Croatia, and therefore we had reason to wander. And in this opening part, we might also say that, by establishing the Croatian Institute of Toxicology in 1990, we actually founded a basic pillar of conservation of environmental and folk health from chemicals and the Croatian Institute of Toxicology was actually a headquarters institution at the time of the war, at the time of the Serbian aggression when it carried out a huge task, we had no incident, and there were many challenges. Just remember those MIG spiders, etc. Today, this institution is also with the Ministry of Health, and will continue to be, and when we join the European Union, it will continue to be because it has extraordinary experts, good structure, excellent communication with the European Commission's Chemicals Office. Their contacts are daily, and therefore our regulations follow everything the European Commission says about it. Maybe just for comparison one more piece of information. We haven't had a single incident in the past 18 years with dangerous chemicals because prevention in the legislative and supervisory areas has been remarkable, and we can say with regret that there are still dangerous chemicals poisoning in Croatia, and that's even 1600 a year, that's drug poisoning, the only dangerous chemicals that we bring into our system every day and that can't prevent either the Ministry of Health, nor the Croatian toxicology office are medicines, even 1600 poisonings per year. All other poisonings are so negligible and controversial that they should not be spoken of at this time, but they confirm exactly the central role of the Ministry and the Croatian Institute of Toxicology in defence of the economic invasion of the chemical market. We also had great wanderings especially in 2003 when instead of this already very experienced institution was introduced Office of Chemicals under the Ministry of Economy. And there's been a breakdown of the system because we've given the wolf to guard the sheep or translated into the economy ministry to take over the role of protecting people's health and protecting the environment, which, of course, was a pure conflict of interest. By the 2005 law, we have corrected and restored the situation to the old and today the Ministry of Health with its laws here are these two laws that are before us, in fact, a good tradition of adapting the law on what is true today in science in what is valid today in the European Union. A number of wanderings in the European Union that also took place in this relation of the interest of the economy, manufacturers, chemical dealers and health and environmental protection have been manifested in the adoption of a number of regulatory mechanisms. The crown of everything should be a regulation 1907 since December 2006 that is being incorporated here into our law and whose implementation here is being passed by the law that is before us. This Regulation will actually be implemented gradually because it is very complex. This regulation has now just taken the first step behind which further harmonisation of our legislation will follow, but this first step is already very important. So the European Union has raised the importance of this Regulation in order as they say, the most important decisions of the European Union. It's such a significant regulation that they're putting it in order first of all. As a result, it is good that the resolution ministry has just decided to pass a law on the application of this Regulation for a valid reason, and for a formal reason because that law lays down criminal provisions in its final part, as the State Secretary pointed out. So in what way is this regulation given special meaning? The specific importance is to achieve, not to eliminate, because it is impossible, but to achieve as little adverse effects as possible from chemicals on health and the environment, but gradually with a view to achieving this minimum level of adverse impact of chemicals in 2020. The regulation then specifically determines the protection of workers working with dangerous chemicals. What should be pointed out in the regulation, as Mr Secretary of State said, determines the Central European Agency, is located in Norway, which will take over the registration of the authorisation for the transport of dangerous chemicals and thus centralise control and supervision. But I warn here, when control and surveillance are centralized, there can also be potential abuses in favour of the economy. Therefore, our legislation and our Croatian Institute of Toxicology will not lose in its power, but I think it must be even stronger, i.e. The old ministry resolution is precisely to protect us from these possible abuses, i.e. the impact of the economy on health protection and environmental protection. The competent authorities of the Member States will therefore continue to have their significant functions, but the approval of dangerous chemicals in accordance with Chapter 7 of this Regulation will be carried out by the European Union Agency itself. What makes me particularly happy, and I believe most of you in this Regulation will also be provided with special protection for experimental or laboratory animals, where a ban will be imposed on unnecessary repetition of attempts to sacrifice unnecessaryly numerous animals, of course most in the field of drug testing and other harmful chemicals. Member States must carry out their own supervision and must lay down provisions on the penalties that this Law and the good it adopts. I would like to commend, we have here in Article 8, listed even individually 70, not as 64 points by which 64 failures or 64 irregular proceedings are punishable. For example, 50 to 100 thousand kuna fines will be fined by the manufacturer if he does not submit registration to the Agency, producer or importer who misdefined polymers, or, for example, by the manufacturer or importer who does not supply the recipient of the product with adequate conditions for handling the chemical. The penalties from 50 to 100 thousand kuna shall also apply to those which provide incomplete documentation to the Agency for chemicals placed on the market or produced, or if it does not provide information on the safety-technical sheet which must provide all the information necessary for the handling of the chemical. Or, as a last example, if the manufacturer, importer or further user, the distributor does not pool and does not store all the data necessary to fulfil its obligations for at least 10 years after the last time he produced, imported or delivered the chemical. So for 10 years, we have to keep all the data and see what is the great significance of this Regulation. A few words about our new law that included this regulation, but also all the regulations that apply to the European Union so far, and as you have heard some of the recommendations of our HItro.ress so that I would mention only a few important changes, in order to protect life and health and protect the environment, are defined by the precise process of reporting new substances, so it was in the old law, and in the new not only that definition, but the classification, packaging and labelling. So much more precise than the definitions of all records. New definitions for polymers and toxic substances have been introduced, the concepts of existing substances and new substances are deleted because they have equal status, two new important concepts are introduced, one prior consent. The previous consent must be obtained from each country in which the chemical is exported, or from the country to which the chemical is imported, and which is prohibited by that chemical in the exporting country. It's a very important precaution that the chemical industry used to abuse. The new definitions are also on the safety-technical list which must be followed by all chemicals, so that the manufacturer, importer or the one that puts the chemical on the market when referring to hazardous plant protection chemicals must be obliged to deliver a safety-technical sheet and to the Croatian Toxicology Institute and should also be placed on the market when all hazardous substances are placed on the market if they are more than 1% for liquids or solids, or above 0.2% for gas products. It doesn't even matter what language it is. The safety-technical sheet must be in Croatian and may be in a foreign language if it is less than 100 kilograms of chemicals per year, but in that case it must have an instruction in the Croatian language, so that anyone who buys or receives and the smallest amount of chemicals can see in Croatian how to deal with this chemical in case of poisoning, etc. Article 8 of the new law provides for a resolute Ministry of Health and Social Care that every 5 years a report on the application of this Act is to be submitted to the European Union and that the results of all prescribed penalties must be included in that report within 5 years and in full supervision. Therefore, it is very precise and determined that it must be centralised in the European Union, even a record of the penalties paid, because then such a offender is taken care of throughout the European Union, not only in one country. Finally, what might also be the point of this Law, Article 18 states that the Croatian Parliament will adopt a National Strategy for Chemical Security within a year. The strategy will outline any further activities of the resolution ministry, the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, as well as the general attitude of our public in relation to dangerous chemicals. Therefore, it is two very important documents, which will certainly benefit more from the overall social community than well-being for health and the environment, rather than damage to the production and transport of these industrial preparations, so the law should support and once again congratulate the rest of the ministry to advance among European countries in the fight against harmful chemicals, and to monitor the European funds from which it will withdraw funds, because so far as I know the dynamics are fully respected. So support this law and that's our recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6527	Thank you. We have another representative for the individual debate. Dear Representative Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6528	State secretaries and respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to say anything new, but the importance of these laws, because this is a united debate that invited me to this debate. First, I must conclude that it is good that these two points of the agenda are united in the debate because they eventually intertwine and show synergy in forming a final proposal for these laws. The chemical law ultimately enables the obtaining of a chemical card, so to speak, and for its realization, the "REACH" evaluation, registration and authorisation of chemicals is unforgivable. Second. Based on the above, it can be concluded that widespread production and sales of large quantities of chemicals whose effects on human health and the environment are largely unknown. These chemicals pose a potential risk to the working population but also to the general public. In overcoming I would call them a knowledge hole, by the effects of chemicals on human health and to achieve sustainable development in the chemical industry, the European Union's policy for new chemicals, so-called. "REACH" registration, evaluation and approval of chemicals that will be of life benefit to all those who in any way come into contact with manufactured chemicals. In my opinion, this law aims to overcome dangers and prevent future threats to human health and the environment. Industry should also improve the collection of relevant information to assess the hazards of substances produced in millions of tonnes. My esteemed colleagues and colleagues have brought out a source of data that gives rise to the power of these laws, so I won't repeat it again, but I need to add some more parameters. The European chemical industry has cca. 31 thousand chemical, pharmaceutical companies employed 2 million people and the profits of the chemical industry for 2005, I am talking about a profit of 32 billion euros. These are the data that speak very vividly, which is the strength of the proposal for a law on the implementation of the REACH Regulation. I'm not going to repeat myself now, my colleagues put it all out, but at the end of this debate, I'd say what the point of "REACH" is. First. That's... from power to industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second. This is information about the dangers and risks to be transmitted by the supply chain. Third. Additional information on the testing and costs of these tests is required. And the fourth. A special way of authorizing high-risk chemicals. And in the end, I will say just one small piece of information, that the expected benefit of REACH as they claim serious analyses at European Community level is the following. If REACH manages to reduce the chemicals of the caused disease by only 10% in the next ten years, the health benefits are estimated at cca. 60 billion euros. Therefore, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues will personally support this law because you see its importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6529	Thank you. And final review by Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6530	I would like to thank Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I'm sorry that in the opening statement maybe I didn't make it clear enough so I'd just repeat a few facts. The Croatian Parliament, which passed the Chemical Act in 2005, was then fully in line with the provisions of the European Union, with three directives that were in force. In addition, this amendment and addition to the Chemical Act transposes the provisions of a directive which is not yet in force in Europe at all in national legislation and enters into force in the Republic of Croatia before those provisions will be at European Union level at all. On the other hand, this has been practically brought into line with something that has not yet been prescribed at European Union level. So to characterise this delay in the adoption of this team more than I have stated and that the procedures that should be followed at this time in order to prepare our businessmen for exactly what they are going through, which some of the procedures are in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but on the part of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, we have made sure that in Croatia the provisions that we have and which in some way ensure the safety of the application of chemicals to ensure that we continue to comply with that part of our coordination with the European Union and with the legislation go to the pace to which we should go. And this cannot in any way be an example of lagging behind or any sequencing in the area of harmonisation of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. As regards the above two amendments to the Legislative Committee, they shall be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6531	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. with a debate on the Road Traffic Safety Bill proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-24-0.u6532	Final draft law implementing Regulation 1907/2006. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Community on the Registration, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. It was an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. The legislator accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee, and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? This final bill was passed by a majority of 117 votes, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. We're moving to agenda 11. Proposal for a road safety law, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When setting the agenda, the government agreed with the proposal as we said it was going to the first reading. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Links, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Home Secretary Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
