ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6893	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad we can start today's session with such an important law as the Children's Foundation. So let me explain the bill briefly. The adoption of this law aims to create legal, financial, institutional and organisational assumptions... /Breaking in the video./... encourages the achievement of the desired inventive trend. Other objectives that are to be achieved by adopting this law are, first of all, to sensitise society on the need to raise the quality of family life of multiple families and to strengthen families with more children through various activities. The purpose of the draft Foundation Act is to implement national population policy in the field of child care, measure 10, which prescribes the establishment of a non-profit "Croatian per Child" Foundation. The adoption of this will contribute, not only to the implementation of the general objectives of the population policy aimed and directed towards the overall demographic movements in the desired direction, but also to the overall efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is its overall activities in the area of the family, which is to raise the amount of one-off aid for the newborn child, raising the lowest amount of birth benefits to 50% of the budget base, i.e. a thousand 663 kuna, decommissioning maternity benefits during the use of compulsory maternity leave until the 6th month of the child's life, extending the income census for the achievement of income rights from 40, to an allowance for children from 40 to 50% of the budget base and raising the minimum amount of surcharge from 166.30 kuna to 199,56 kuna, as well as providing free textbooks to primary and 1st grade secondary school. This shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has put the family at the heart of the state interest, which the family belongs to. In contrast to the rules, in the areas of social benefits this law focuses on the welfare of children with families with five and more children, regardless of their property. However, while respecting the fundamental starting point for the adoption of national population policy and the principle of social justice, the foundation would primarily focus on the welfare and empowerment of children, with a number of children exposed to social exclusion risks. Not only for socially conditioned reasons, but also for the need to encourage implementation and other measures in this document aimed at the demographic maintenance of rural and poorly populated areas of Croatia. This is very important for the prominent. Also, when drawing up a draft Foundation Act, particular attention was paid to the fact that the activity of the foundation should not be directed solely to children and families with a number of children with a weaker property condition. For this reason, the purpose of the foundation is moderated according to all other children in the family with a number of children, thus achieving the possibility of expanding the overall activity of the foundation to families and children who are not covered by some existing form of family support. This special attention is paid to gifted children and children, as I said, from rural and poorly populated areas, as well as to children from smaller urban settlements. According to estimates, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, around 20,000 children from numerous families are potential users of one or more forms of assistance and support from the foundation. The Foundation would be financed in part from the Croatian lottery, which is distributed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia each year by a regulation to individual users, and for the purpose of implementing humanitarian, sports and cultural content, and from other sources such as donations of legal and physical persons. The assessment that the work of the foundation for one calendar year would require about 10 million kunas. The Foundation would be managed by the Management Board, which according to this draft law is made up of representatives of the family ministry, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Social Care, the working body of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the family and the working body of the Croatian Parliament responsible for social care. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts this draft law on trust and its degree and further procedure gives very encouraging messages to many families with five and more children, as well as families with fewer children. The foundation of the foundation will also draw attention to the seriousness of the demographic crisis that we are in, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this act will once again show its consistency in taking the activities with which the family is placed at the heart of the state interest, as well as the implementation and measures aimed at the welfare of children and young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6894	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mrs Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6895	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Children as the future of the Croatian phrase is often repeated. But as much as they invest in the future and as much as they hold on to it, there's another story. As a small country of just over 4 million inhabitants, Croatia belongs to European countries with a high percentage of the mature and older population, and according to some estimates by 2020, there will be a chronic shortage of about 250 thousand young people by 19 years. There is always a new emphasis on the problem, and there is always talk of improving the intelligence policy, but in particular, there is little to it. The increasing pace of life, the ever-longer working life and working hours, as well as the ever more insecure life opportunities, also make young people think well and prepare well before they start planning their families. There are also other problems. Here, for example. Toleration of employers who by contract prohibit women the birth and maternity leave of maternity benefits is very often low. The possibilities for young parents are worse. It's a matter of part-time workers who don't have the possibility of maternity leave. The problem is also the implementation of legislation regarding the protection of children. The draft law on the establishment of the “Croatia for Children” Foundation was referred to in the parliamentary procedure, which will be assisted, according to children from multi-member families. It is more specifically families with a minimum of five children with less material status. They will seek to provide financial support, facilitate the use of educational, cultural institutions, summering and so on, as indicated. The services of the foundation will benefit children, i.e. families with less than five children if they comply with the provisions of acts of the law. Special attention will be paid to gifted children from rural areas. We hold at the club, we actually welcome every initiative that is positive if it is child care in Croatia. However, the bill in question has a number of shortcomings that raises a number of questions and criticisms, and to some extent we can view it as even discriminatory. Excuse me. For example, Article 4(1) of the Law states that the beneficiary of the support of a family trust that has at least five children or children in the family in the joint household, which says that the foundation is designed to support exclusively multiple families, which is assessed by discriminatory and opposite conventions on the rights of a child related to a child, not a group of children from multiple families. It is true that paragraph 3 of that article establishes the possibility that the beneficiary of the trust may also be a family with fewer children or children from that family, only confirming the privileged position of multiple families and children in those families. In this context, it is not clear why and in what respect children from multi-member families were initially threatened and abolished. Why is it assumed that material rights and opportunities are more deprived of children, such as unemployed parents, parents who are sick and unable to earn, single parents or children with some illnesses? Article 6 provides that the Foundation bodies are the Management Board and the Trust Manager. In Article 7(1), the Foundation shall be managed by a Management Board of seven members, and Article 12(1) shall represent and manage the Foundation in accordance with the law, statutes of the Foundation, other acts of the Foundation and decisions of the Management Board. We're wondering who's running the foundation? We still have some misunderstandings. And it is said in Article 12(3) that the trustee has the right to receive an appropriate reward for his work and for the compensation of other expenses in accordance with the statutes and other general acts of the trust. We must admit that the rest of us are amazed because we know what can be undermined and what has so far been under the term “an appropriate reward. ” Discrimination of families with fewer children will not trigger Croatia, nor will the Natalie politics, because if the family can't support one or two children without the help of the state, then there won't be a third. Is Croatia worth only multiple families or children from multiple families more precisely with 5 or more children? There are many families with one, two children who are also weaker material status and do not have some opportunities. Shouldn't they be taken care of? Incentives from the state should be equal for all children, of course, given the material status of the family, but should not be distributed exclusively by the number of children. The equality of opportunities is one of the foundations of democracy, and in the draft of this law there is no equality of opportunity. Furthermore, the question is, what state aid should be, 200, 500 or 1,000 kuna? In any case, they don't provide for the future. The progeny policy and child care should be manifested not only through certain monetary donations, but should be a whole series of policies. Working for children means the whole process that will ensure the care of the state in the form of quality and accessible education, health insurance, employment of parents to ensure perspective for children and young people. Will another foundation help improve the current situation? Couldn't there have been some kind of initiative within the already existing legislation and institutions that would have been more effective? It is the state that should systematically care for each individual, and especially for children who are particularly protected by the Constitution itself. The “Croatia for Children” fund is insufficient and slightly exclusive. Although statistics say that many multi-member families have weaker material status, a large number of families with fewer children are also in an uninvited position. If you're going to help, you need to help everyone. That is why the SDP club, since this is the first reading, is seeking to amend and respect the proposals and opinions of the relevant institutions for the final draft law. Because this is the possibility of helping families with five or more children, or supporting a policy of intelligence, but respected colleagues, isn't it the time to stop with fire and finally get to work. Social reform will soon be named Godoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6896	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect quote, quoting, which my colleague said: “It is a little bit of a work to implement the policy of intelligence. ” It's done a lot more than what was done at a time when the coalition government was all these measures put out by the Secretary of State... When you cut everything you cut you couldn't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] but you have the right to do so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm just saying that's not true, and I'm going to confirm in my statement and prove you're telling the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6898	Thoughts of opinion. Let's move on. On behalf of the CNS Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6899	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm going to start this exhibition on behalf of the HNS Club by finding that we haven't seen such a weak proposal in a long time. And now I'm going to say why. But first it's reading, there's opportunities and there's a chance to fix a lot of things. The proposal for a law on the foundation "Croatia for children" is problematic for a whole series of reasons. I'll try to tell those who are most important. First of all, whoever worked on the text of this law or knows nothing about the foundation or deliberately exits the standards established by the Foundation Act that exist in the Republic of Croatia and the tradition of foundation and foundation which is much longer than the law itself. First of all, it's a matter of trust property. As it is set that the trust property is actually worth hundreds of thousands of kunas, it is underestimating the idea of a foundation and it is contrary to the idea that each trust must become just a sustainable system. With 100 thousand kunas of trust property, this can't be called a trust fund, but a trust fund with a passing account through which the money from the games for happiness will be distributed to end-users. So if that's what you call it a trust fund and let's not speak the Esposian language and let's not cheat on people. The fund that could be self-sustainable must have far greater trust capital, and that trust fund capital must bring it revenue, not always start from that anti-climate claim that the foundation will be constantly financed by a source called gambling funds. And speaking of that source, let me tell you something you don't know. ... I'm so glad your HDZ colleagues are looking forward to new knowledge. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, if that's the case, then let me tell you, because of this bill, it's been blocked for four months now by the adoption of a game-sharing regulation on gambling, betting and fun games. Do you know what that means? This means that the law established funds belonging to organisations with disabilities, the Croatian Olympic Committee, associations and foundations for the development of civil society and a whole series of dozens of associations engaged in socio-humanitarian activities until this law is passed, and it goes to another reading, will not receive swears from gambling funds this year. Now I'm asking you, if you would get, how will you guarantee the execution of your programs? And I'm going to ask you again when in a month it becomes a very hot potato, how much money we've allocated for sport since this is a very sports year. Furthermore, not only is it blocking the regulation but, in accordance with Article 10 of the Law, which regulates the issue of the distribution of these funds, so the contrary Article 10 tries to disrupt the percentage relationship in that regulation, so it takes 2% of the 28% of those with disabilities, almost 1% intended for sport, almost 1% of the development of civil society. So let's not speak the Esposian language. It doesn't say anything to you here. This is nowhere to be found that the redistribution of the funds from gambling will harm associations with the disability of athletes, associations for the development of civil society and democratisation. And I'll tell you what it looks like in practice. On 31.12. Last year, the ministry of Ms. Kosor had an excess of 7 million 842 thousand kuna intended for socio-humanitarian programmes. This means, among other things, the fight against addiction, the support of youth associations and children and all the funds that remain neutral are planned to be put into the distribution foundation, and such funds will be slightly higher than 10 million this year, as betting and betting revenues are expected due to the European Championship. So then I ask you, how come that math we just heard from the secretary of state when it's known that more than 17 million kunas will sit on the jury account of this trust. Furthermore, how has it been established that members of the Management Board of the Foundation will be elected? So the ruling majority will by God's grace appoint all members of the board of directors because the ruling majority will without any problem determine who the Ministry of Social Care, the Ministry of Family, the Ministry of Health, then the competent body of the Croatian Parliament, and against that, their hands and feet are trying to resist the very ones to whom this applies. Because you don't have a single representative of the academic community, NGOs or professional associations dealing with the problem of intelligence policy and child protection. So do you really think it's a good idea for politicians and civil servants to sit on the board, not for people who understand that? And what is this just reward to the trustee? Well, I guess for God's sakes, the trustee's gonna be busy at that trust fund, he's gonna have a job contract, and he's gonna have a full salary to be assigned to him by the board of directors. What kind of reward are we talking about here? Well, it's no stock company. What does reward mean? Furthermore, the question is whether this law actually legalises child discrimination or introduces the principle of equalising opportunities. There's always a very thin line. But as it seems in practice, I will remind you that, in practice, the assistant director of the State Department for Family Protection, Motherhood and Youth, I have paid myself financial assistance for family summering because she has more children. Furthermore, can we discriminate against children from fewer families who are less material, weaker property status in families, or should also give them a chance. Why? To encourage these families to have more children. Can we treat them as exceptions or should we approach children in the same way? If we want to reduce these differences, i.e. a range of those who are in the mainstream and those who are depressed, or equalise the chances for all, then the set goals of the foundation cannot stand. What does it mean to organize sports trips and sports gatherings? Well, that's the opposite of the Tourist Activity Act. The foundation must not organize any school trips. What's he supposed to do? He may co-finance the costs of participation of children, but not in a way that organizes special programs for children from multi-member families because it is actually a ghettoisation, but should help them to share their peers with them in terms of going on school trips, excursions, graduates, schools in nature. So, because of their property depression, parents don't have to tell my child, unfortunately, he can't go with the other children, but he can, therefore, even the odds. But as it's written, it means that we're going to get the kids back, like we do with the kids in the family of dead defenders, which is that we're taking them on special trips, taking them to special programs, and that's not good. They should simply be equated in opportunities and opportunities with all other children. Furthermore, it is said that family holidays with more children will be organised. I don't know when we'll be able to organize a holiday this year, although it's planned, says a million-and-a-half kuna. Since this foundation can be registered about a month after the law is passed. If this is the first reading, it will probably take some more time, so it will need to form a foundation, bring all the normative acts, set the criteria for the distribution of funds. And I will remind you that there is a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament called the Code of Positive Practice. He adopted it in February last year and is obliged as a principle of conduct and a set of procedures for all those who distribute funds from public sources, and so are these funds. Therefore, according to the Code, positive practices should only establish all pre-proceeds of tendering and allocation of funds, with some competitions having to be permanently open, not campaigning, because some of these activities happen throughout the year, and in this sense it is impossible for a child to plan some activities for the whole year only in the first quarter. Moreover, the problem is that such an imaginary foundation seems completely dependent on the government's political decisions, which is, above all, the adoption of a regulation, which I repeat, which is already four months late and would be a good idea of increasing and making it a sensitive increase in the trust property so that the foundation could one day acquire its own children's resort, and the state could help, and that infrastructure from which it could push away part of the sustainable programmes. All this is, therefore, the reason why this law should actually be renamed by this concept, as it says here, in the Foundation "Croatia for 5 and more children", not "Croatia for children", because it is not "Croatia for children", but only "Croatia only for some children", and that is why the club of HNS will not support such a proposal, but we leave a chance for the applicant to correct all these shortcomings and listen to what the professional public has to say, because the associations that deal with children have given a whole range of remarks, but no one wants to hear them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6900	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6901	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleague Beus for this valuable information you've given us, but I do need to correct two, absolutely incorrect allegations. One is when you denied that the board of directors would enter people who had nothing to do with the profession or the children. This is quite incorrect, among other things, because the ministry responsible for social care provides a member. Well, they're not gonna give up a man who has nothing to do with it. Then, the ministry responsible for science, education and sport, also one. Then, the competent authorities of the Parliament, the government and the ministry directly dealing with this problem, and they also won't give up anyone who deals with sports, and we're talking about children. On the other hand, you said that you were trying to segregate children in a certain way, separate them and actually make them special and cause such damage. However, it says here that, in Article 5, support will be given in money, things and use of cultural, educational, sports, recreation and similar content. So no one thinks to pick up those children all from Croatia, so bring them to one place, but give them to each person. And you're in contradiction yet...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6902	Thank you. Mrs. Neda Klaric, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6903	Here, I am correcting Mr. Beus' incorrect claim, even if Mr. Representative Bagaric has already corrected it, that there are actually no experts dealing with child protection. I can only repeat what Mr. Bagaric said, that the board of directors make the minister responsible for the family, definitely, social care, the minister responsible for education, sport. However, I still have to say and correct another incorrect assumption, and that is when we will organize children's summers. I still argue responsibly, nothing is too late, because there are still groups of children coming from abroad to the territory of the Croatian Adriatic. Therefore, I can only express my great pleasure in establishing such a foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6904	Thank you. Correction, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6905	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, my colleague Beus said, throughout a series of rhetorical questions, he said a whole series of inaccuracies. In fact, one of the inaccuracies was said by a colleague and colleague, that this law discriminates against a family with fewer children, so he stated that the family that has three or four children has no extras. That's exactly what this family has to do with 500 kuna. And that's why we're going to a five-member and a multi-member family. And I don't think this is discrimination against any child in Croatia. You also said one illogical thing. A colleague, from your presentation, can be assessed by the public that the ministry or government organizes various trips, winters, summers for children, you have pointed out here special defending children, children of dead defenders, disabled Homeland War. No, I don't. It does not organise the ministry, organise associations that through their activities have, among other things, such activity. So don't all point out to the public the wrong conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6906	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6907	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports and welcomes the proposal for a law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent to this High House for discussion in the first reading. The establishment of a non-profit foundation "Croatia for Children" was established by measure 10 in the area of "The Care for Children of National Population Policy", a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 24 November 2006. The improvement of the material and social safety of children in the Republic of Croatia is one of the permanent tasks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed the duty and obligation of the state to protect motherhood, children and youth and to create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life of children, to which the Republic of Croatia also committed in 1991 when it signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child. An international document adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 20 November 1989 containing universal standards which the State Party of Conventions my guarantee to every child. But back to the national population policy. The document needs each and every one of them, as well as our own country, in which we have recorded the negative natural growth of the population in recent years. And just to remind ourselves, about forty, forty-four years ago, the natural increase in the Republic of Croatia was 25 thousand 740 more born compared to the deceased in 1964 and in 2004 or forty years later it is negative and amounts to minus 9 thousand 449 persons, which means 9 thousand 449 more dead compared to the born. The list of inhabitants spent every ten years in the Republic of Croatia found that there were 4.7 million of us. According to the last census in 2001, we are listed 4 million 437 thousand 460 inhabitants. From year to year, we enroll thousands to a thousand and a half students in the first classes of primary schools at the level of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore our national interest to develop and confirm a positive attitude toward family and children. Of the measures and instruments adopted by the Croatian Government over the past period: it increased the child's allowance, introduced a promising supplement and a children's allowance of 500 kuna for each third and fourth children, it returned a three-year maternity leave for twins, a third and each next child. And to stop here, that's when I was correcting the incorrect allegations, all of this is the coalition power from 2000 to 2003 immediately at the beginning of its mandate reduced, abolished, expired, and expired, when today we say very little is being done at the implementation of the innovative policy. To continue, the Croatian government also decommissioned the payment for mandatory maternity leave until the 6th month of the child's life. We know that he should not have crossed 4000 257,88 kuna which was very unfavourable for women employed and today it is found at a hundred percent base, so the average of receiving the last six months before taking leave, with that it cannot be less than that base of a thousand 663 kuna. For the other six months of maternity leave, benefits are today determined from a minimum of 663 to a maximum of 2.5 thousand kuna depending on the average paid during the first six months of compulsory maternity leave. One-time aid for newborn equipment after twelve years for which it amounted to thousands of 360 kunas was raised to 2 thousand 328 kuna. In addition to the current tax reliefs for children, the government has provided free textbooks for all primary and first-class students, free transport for schools for first-class students. Finally, the government's decision to make high school compulsory until the first occupation, as well as the opening of a university in county centres that allows young people to gain high education without having to leave their area of help is both for children and for young people and for families. I apologize if I accidentally skipped or did not mention any of the encouraging measures of the Croatian government that she had implemented, introduced or implemented. All the above and so far, the undertaking gives the right to the proposer of this law to trust that it belongs to the term "Croatia for children" because through this, everything I have said sees that Croatia is for children. However, although we have listed all the existing instruments of the most innovative policy, we are aware that even now we have multiple families with five, six children who have not been covered by systematic measures, except for the exception of the incentives provided by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity for about 530 families with eight and more children. It is therefore good that national population policy measures also provide for special care for families with five and more children. Based on statistical indicators on the number of users of allowances for children with five and more children for November 2007 in the Republic of Croatia, there are 3 thousand 405 families whose income per household member is less than 663 kuna and these indicators estimate that 20 thousand children live in these families, which is a significant proportion of children compared to the total number of children living in multi-member families. These children were targeted by a group of the Children's Foundation. National population policy sets out the purpose of setting up a foundation, so it is said that society needs to be sensitised to the needs and quality of family life of multiple families that would be achieved through co-financing of individual programmes such as family holidays with more children, school trips and sports meetings, visits to cultural institutions and events, scholarship of gifted children from multi-member families, extracurricular activities, purchase of information equipment, programs and such. The funds necessary for the implementation of this law based on these indicators that I have presented are estimated at 10 million 445 thousand kunas which are provided from the revenues from games to happiness, bookshops, casinos and donations of legal and physical persons, clearly all in accordance with the law. My personal position is that the funds or revenues from gambling, bookshop, casinos will come and will be intended for the right persons and for the right need. Let me further make it clear from the proposal of this law precisely because of the Croatian public because we all have this text in front of us but there should be no confusion in the public which some of the MPs are trying to bring in. It should be said that the proposal for a law found in Article 4 that the beneficiary of the support of this trust is a family that has at least five children or children in the family. Children are considered to be children from birth until the completion of regular schooling or university or professional studies and who regularly and neatly fulfil their school and study obligations, as well as adult children who are unable to work while they are incompetence due to illness, mental or physical impairment. Exceptionally, a user may also be a family with less than five children or a child from that family if he meets the conditions laid down by the general acts of the foundation, clearly when the law and the register of foundations are passed and all bodies are appointed, that this will also be possible. And another provision, which is that the general act will pay particular attention to gifted children and children from rural or smaller urban settlements. Why did I bring this up? That he really doesn't stay anywhere in the idea that this law is being discriminated against by families with less than five children. However, I stress in the national population policy under this measure has just been indicated for families, for multi-member families, i.e. families with five and more children, and we adopted this as a Parliament in 2006. Income achieved, i.e. support in money or things achieved under this law, is not considered household income. It is also important to emphasize and repeat what it is, I want to eventually repeat and highlight what the purpose of the foundation is. The Foundation is founded with the purpose of increasing the birth rate, promoting family values and empowering families with a number of children, and I hope that our colleagues and colleagues are in the best interest that as soon as this first reading is that this Law establishing the “Croatian Children’s Foundation” will be adopted as soon as possible and that it can be acted on behalf of all those users who are supported by this foundation. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6908	Thank you. We have a correction. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6909	Mrs Bilić Vardic argued that this law is not discriminatory towards children. I think he's discriminatory. The fact is that it applies primarily to families with five and more children, and it is discriminatory in this provision that, therefore, from this foundation the funds will be able to benefit children from rural or smaller urban settlements. Do you really not think that children who need the support of this foundation, children who do not have a normal chance of living are also not in the City of Zagreb, Split, Osijek, therefore larger urban places. Therefore, these children are excluded from this foundation and that is discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6910	Thank you. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The lady made a claim on the claim. She's actually saying that, in her opinion, she corrected an incorrect quote and we have nothing to discuss anymore. Please! We're moving on to an individual debate. It's Mrs. Brankica Crlenko's turn. Here you go. He's giving up the lady. Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Milanka Opačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6911	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that when I read this Law on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, I could not really tell if it was a foundation which, or one project that should be part of the innovative policy or whether it was a social programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if it's about the most intelligent policy, then it should look completely different. In Croatia, we fight not for the fifth, sixth or seventh children. We fight for another child. That's the problem in Croatia. So the second and third children in the family and that's something that's part of the ultimate policy. It would take a lot different measures than what you put here in the foundation. So these families have very little support from society. We haven't built the service yet. We don't have enough mangers or kindergartens for the kids. We also didn't protect our mothers at work. Still women can't say they want to have a family, they want to stay pregnant, they won't get a job. Pregnant women get fired. We couldn't protect them. We're practically legal, but we haven't been able to protect them in practice. Therefore, it is something Croatia must do when it comes to the most promising policy. In this way, helping, therefore, these financial ones, but also helping other families to make it much easier for them to decide on a second or third child. Similarly, the problem of women who have decided for example on a three - year maternity leave who have lost their health insurance has opened up. What we're going to do with these women and this kind of protection that the state must also provide if it wants to implement the most intelligent policy. If this is a social dimension, then she has another moderation that should have been prepared for this Parliament. So it's not a foundation again, it's a social program. The fact is that it was not known exactly what was wanted in this law except that only one family category is supported, which I think is discriminatory, because under the Constitution, the state is obliged to ensure equal conditions for its children in Croatia, not just one group. And finally, where does it say that all families that have more than five children are poor? It doesn't stand anywhere. There are families who have more than five children and who live quite decently, as there are children in two - parent families who cannot meet their basic needs living in poverty, as there are many children in single - parent families who live in poverty and whose support they need, who cannot come from this foundation and will not be able to receive any incentives tomorrow. I'll just tell you that in a research done in 2000, more than 55% of parents who therefore themselves care for their children in single-parent families say they barely reconcile the most basic monthly support giving up their vacation, giving up on the free activities of children. So these children in single-parent families, therefore, have no more than 55% of them neither to develop their talents, nor to learn foreign languages, nor to engage in sports activities, nor to go to sea, and about a third of such parents were not able to give children allowance, they do not buy candy and fruit. That's why I'm asking you, what are we going to do with these families? What are we gonna do about these kids? Do children in single - parent families really not have the right to go on vacation, not to have any sporting activity, and about talents and possible help to develop some talents that I don’t even talk about. The question is also, what I said earlier, which is why it is aimed only at children of rural and less populated areas, as indicated here? Of course, I couldn't agree more. Yeah, kids in smaller places live pretty hard. They don't have some content that children have in urban areas and certainly need much to do because I think that a child in some smaller places must have the same conditions for education and for free activities as children in some big cities. But I also cannot accept that there are no children who need help from the state, from this foundation or in any other way, and in large cities. There is. In the very center of Zagreb, you will find countless children living on the very edge of poverty. But they may not live in families with five or more children. Maybe they live alone with their mother or with their father. Two days ago, I was approached by a man who had three children. His wife died at birth, three children remained on his watch, and a man asked me how to survive with those three children with two thousand 100 kuna wages. He can't work further because three kids is a huge concern, they only have him. Now I ask you, will this man with three children have the right to ask this trust to help his children perhaps go to sea, to have paid, I don't know, if they're talented, to practice an instrument, or not? You're nodding my head now, but please write it in the law because it's not written in the law. Until the second reading, then you have to do it. What else I'd like to ask you. Why are children without parental care at home or in foster homes, in a way limited by the state by the amount it gives for housing in a home or in a foster family? And nothing more than that. So these children are certainly damaged because they do not live in their families, live in, in my opinion, completely unnatural conditions or in an institution or foster family. And unfortunately, these children do not have the same conditions and do not have the same rights as other children do. Hosts, for example, receive a thousand 600 kuna for the needs of a child. Each of you here knows what you can do with a thousand 600 kunas. Very little, very little. Will these children also have the right through this foundation to seek help, for example, to go on a holiday? For example, these children are well deprived of any trips, vacations, and potential talents that we do not speak at all because the question is how a child and can show some talent when there is no basic base that other children have, which is one positive family environment. Their problems in life are far different from other children living in families, even if they live a little more modestly. So, taking care of these children definitely didn't stop at just what the state is giving for their housing in social care institutions, so, and that state should afford them much more because they've earned it, children aren't guilty of being in that position. Therefore, the state must treat all children equally. And in the end, it would be good if some conditions were prescribed, for obtaining funds from this foundation, to be prescribed in this law, because the subsequent regulation of conditions actually opens up a space for certain manipulations, which I think when it comes to children, it would not be good, so it would be very useful for a second reading in this law to work out a lot. And once again, my appeal that this law goes very broadly, therefore to all children in Croatia who need certain criteria to get funds from this foundation. All children in this country must have approximately equal living conditions, for their development, for education and the state cannot favor only one category of children, and leave other children, therefore, to have no access to such one project as the "Croatia for Children" Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6912	Thank you. A few corrections. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct her colleague's claim that the children of a family with one child are not included in this foundation. So it keeps repeating itself, and it's not true. Read Article 5, which says that families with fewer than five children or children from that family can meet the conditions of this trust. You also talk about families with five or more children who are not poor. I think they're very rare for you. Three thousand and 405 children with five and more children per household have a thousand six hundred and sixty-three. So, I'm not talking about an analysis that's not rich anymore, they're really poor. And as for children with special needs, it is also stated that these include children from universities and schools who meet their school and study obligations, adult children who are unable to work during their incompetence due to mental and physical illness. So, I don't think there's any discrimination to this trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6914	And Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6915	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In part, I wanted to correct the incorrect allegations that my colleague Caparin had now corrected, but in terms of this claim about the number of children Mrs Opačić spoke of. Well said on the committee, it's not true that not everyone's poor, but not everyone's rich. On the board we said nicely that it does not mean that only these 20,000 children will be covered by the support of this foundation, but also other children regardless of the property censorship, or not the aim of this foundation, are not only the support of social support, but it is in accordance with all the provisions that we have provided, and these are also the gifted children who have the funds, but in certain programmes they can be included in the support of the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6916	And Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6917	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I think it is necessary to correct and make it clear that Croatia does not favour some children compared to others but simply makes priorities. It is therefore expected that more children, families with more children, have more needs. So they just need more. Thus, we appreciate the need for other children who have needs. On the other hand you said that I don't know either I'm going targeting more rural groups, etc. That's not true. Article 4(5) states that special attention will be paid to those children, as it stands, read. Which means that those kids from rural areas just don't have access to what kids in big cities have, that's what I meant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6918	Replica, Ms. Representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my esteemed colleague Opapčić, I answered the replica just for that very reason that we might be able to answer some of my questions, and I'm going to say at first that I agree in one segment of your debate and that we are just sharing the same opinion, which is when you said that there are not enough kindergartens for all children to be equally taken care of and that this population policy would be the same for everyone and that we would have results. Just a year ago, I asked you this question to beg as you said you were appealing that all children are equal. That is why I appeal that children are the same in Brezovica as they are in the entire City of Zagreb, because Bezovica with 11 thousand residents is the only one with no kindergarten. The city of Zagreb has a budget of about 10 billion and you, I think you could do with your fellow party, present-day mayor whom I welcome and remind him to tell him to solve this problem once. Because schools are in the same condition, exactly the same. One part of lower-class children is transferred to another quarter because there is not enough room in Brezovica. So please, dear fellow Members, I think you have authority in front of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb and tell him this problem that I repeat from year to year and at this parliamentary level and at the state level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6920	Replica reply, Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6921	I wish my colleague Šolić would run for this next local election for the city hall and then solve these problems in the city hall. Last year, the City of Zagreb opened four kindergartens and since the citizens and residents of Brezovica gave us the largest number of votes in the SDP. I have no doubt that the government of the SDP in the City of Zagreb will give all the support and that soon there will be a kindergarten in Brezovica. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The government will not change Mr. Markovanovic because you and Mrs. Solic lost to me and the SDP in your seats, therefore these are your indicators. ... So you lost to the list of SDP in St. Sunday, so soon there will be a kindergarten in Brezovica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because unlike other local self-government, government, the city government in the City of Zagreb takes care of the welfare, takes care of the needs of children, and here only in last year are four new kindergartens in the City of Zagreb built.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6922	You lost everything in Brezovica and you never won the Brezovica elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6923	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The City of Zagreb will probably solve the problem of kindergarten, there is enough money to solve for all of Croatia, so I sincerely hope it will. But I'm also going to say something about this Foundation Act, which I really think will strengthen families with more children, and I'm sorry that since the beginning of this debate is trying to impose one conclusion, which is to discriminate families with fewer children, which really doesn't stand. This is just one of a series of measures of this government, special measures, family policies to establish such a foundation that will primarily contribute to the development and improvement of innovation. But what is the purpose of this law? It's primarily sensitizing all of us, and I'll tell you from concrete data from practice, for multiple families. In fact, it is very difficult in these families to provide means for excursions, so if you want for winters, sports meetings, some cultural events, extracurricular activities, and also for shopping, I will say information equipment. Why is that important and how can I claim it? In my long-standing work as head of the management department for social activities in Sisak-Moslavina County, I have just met with such difficulties in families that had three, four, and even five children parallel to primary and secondary school. If the school organizes an even mandatory program, the school program, which is that everyone understands the so-called. the school in nature, namely an extracurricular form which is not a field trip but is regular work in fourth grade primary school or third grade, then most often parents from multiple families would report for help either in the county or in the city and I would simply say it in a way that someone in the city or county has some sensitivity to it, giving one-time help or some kind of support. Very often there was discrimination at the time, because children in the town of Sisak could achieve that support because the town of Sisak had the means to do so, and the children in Glina, Petrinja, I am counting the cities from my county where I know, perhaps that local environment did not have enough resources and could not provide such support to those children. I think that this foundation and this way will just solve colleagues and colleagues such a problem, that their children in Croatia, regardless of what territory and areas they come from, will be allowed, or parents to report normally by one legal means, by the way in which they will be prescribed in the foundation by the rules for the achievement of support and these funds. It has been said here several times that these support is not provided for families with fewer children. I also said by correcting my colleague, Beusus, that we now have a regulation of established support for families with three, four children of 500 kuna, which means that we want just those who have more children, who are really difficult, who have school or more student children to help. I would not agree with this claim, either, that this law or that the foundation will, by its general act, especially separate children from talented and children from rural and smaller environments. In fact, they will pay particular attention to them, because the goal, I think, and the purpose of all of us fighting for Croatia to be evenly populated, that families living on the edges of Croatia in really difficult conditions that we now call special state care, but they are also of particular state interest in the same conditions as children living in my Sisak, in the city of Zagreb or in any major city in the Republic of Croatia that is far more accessible. And in the end, I don't think colleagues and colleagues that this is the funding that is foreseen here exclusively for funding, and as far as I've seen in these final articles funding from gambling revenue, although I don't know that this is now some big delay in realising funds for other associations, sports associations and civil society associations is going to cause the adoption of such a law because it says in Article 18 that other fund revenues are the acquisition of revenue from more accompanying activities, such as the organisation of charities, making and selling presses, emblems, badges, badges and the like. Why am I pointing that out? Well, even now you've had to support a variety of associations mostly organizing I'd say some humanitarian events, concerts, calls to phones, answers through some, waiting over the Internet, which is especially popular now. So now the money's coming together. They went to the associations' accounts, and they focused on how the associations decided. Why not have in one place now, in one trust that will use these funds transparently, which will have its own board of directors who will manage this foundation and that at any moment we will be able to see where such funds are spent, and certainly no kuna spent on these purposes to support children, gifted children, children who are weaker property status, children who want and have the same opportunities as all children in Croatia will be spent in vain. And that's why I don't think we should do this at the beginning of this debate, this is the law in the first reading, right now to point out some kind of I'd say I have such a conclusion, I can make out of this debate at least so far, that we constantly highlight some discriminatory attitude towards children in Croatia. Here, thanks, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6925	Thank you. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6926	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would like to join this debate today and really support the proposal to adopt such a law on the establishment of the Croatian Children's Foundation. In fact, it is referred to as a special law, not respecting that this law stems from national population policy and that it is not particularly something to be passed without being part of the national population policy, precisely in the area of child care. Of course child care comes from both the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, from the right to life, to the standard of living, the appropriate right to diet, education, etc. In the document The Strategic Framework for Development in the Republic of Croatia, the government recognized and made it very clear that the relationship between society and children is a picture of the society itself. Surely it is very important to especially sensitize society on the need to help and raise the quality of family life of multiple families and I think everyone in their local environments, and I can say that in the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County and the town of Bjelovar it is being implemented, so we meet that families with more children have children who have never seen the sea. Here is the town of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogor County, which is now being helped by such families and these children go to Novi Vinodolski. They've never seen the sea. They're rural children, and I'm not talking about talented kids who really don't have any chance of going to school and taking a vacation and going on a school trip or visiting a cultural institution without talking about things that they should buy. Especially since the very beginning of its mandate, the government has really helped many families. We remember the program of free textbooks for primary school and children, the project of obtaining computers for multi-member families. The minister came to Bjelovar himself and shared twenty computers with families with eight and more children, and she did so in other counties. In the first year of last term, the amount of maternity benefits was increased, the right to return to a three-year maternity leave that the former coalition authority reduced or abolished. Today, birth benefits are related to the budget base. This means growing the budget base of growth and maternity benefits. A single aid has doubled for newborn equipment at 2,330 kuna. Employers are being stimulated to hire parents with small children. It's the same from national population policy. Free school textbooks, dormitories, free transportation, decommissioning of maternity benefits for women with higher incomes in the first six months receive full salary compensation. It is worth the introduction of an innovative 500 kuna supplement for the third and fourth child extra for children. Birth benefits can be used up to the first year of the third year of life, and an allowance for children until the 19th year of children provided that they are regularly educated in the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, 20 thousand children live in a multi-member family, of which 3 thousand 405 families with five and more children and have a monthly allowance per household member that is less than 1.663 kuna. It is really hard to understand that such families can afford children a vacation, an organization of school trips. So I am really glad that this foundation is established and that such families will be able to help, and let us not talk about discrimination against other families. I know that there are families with one child who cannot afford this or help their child, but that is why it exists in Article 4(3), where such exceptional situations are discussed and which will be respected and children will be able, such obligations, or such funds will be obtained from this foundation. All the help is truly welcome, especially in this way where we can help our children. Not only families with more children, but the statute will determine that families with fewer children will be helped. If necessary, I can tell you, a month ago in Bjelovar, an association of mothers with three and more children who were just talking about these things and needs that they do not have the resources. Indeed, it is truly commendable to establish this foundation, and it is commendable to ensure that this foundation is helped by such families and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6927	Thank you. Two corrections. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6928	Mrs. Caparin, listing what the government has done for the welfare of children and families with more children, said among other things that employers are stimulated to hire parents with small children. This is absolutely incorrect, because at the same time we meet that this country tolerates employers who do not want to hire women who want a family, who want a mother, our pregnant women get fired, we hire them for a certain time, and now I really don't understand how these employers are stimulated to hire parents with small children. That's just not true. At the same time, we, of course, made it possible for women to go on three-year leave again, and now we have established that these women do not have health insurance, and the ministry washes their hands. What are we talking about today?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6929	Second item, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6930	Well, I'm correcting Mrs. Caparin's quote that she knows that there are children who are hard to live in single-parent families, but that the advantage should still be given to these others. In fact, Mrs. Caparin, 188 thousand children live in single - parent families. Of which 55% cannot meet the basic needs of their children. So it's a very large category of children who live literally on the edge of poverty. A World Bank study a few years ago warned that these are children who, with little help, can be helped, in fact, not to slip into this poverty, but to get out of this poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6931	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6932	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 209, the colleague gave her opinion, and she did not correct my claim, as I warned that I knew that there were families with one child, but that these families were entitled to the assistance provided for in Article 4(3) from this foundation. So there's no discrimination because all the kids can get help.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6933	Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6934	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, the purpose of the foundation is, according to national population policy, to sensitise Croatian society according to the needs and to raise the quality of family life of multiple families. The primary objective is to focus on immaterial forms of support for those families where there are more children, as well as on providing material forms of support aimed at gifted children. The co-financing of individual programmes concerns family holiday with a number of children, then extracurricular activities, school trips, visits to cultural institutions and events, purchase of information equipment and programs, etc. The current regulation does not allow certain support to individual cases, particularly when it comes to children from multiple families, especially those who are gifted and more successful students. The introduction of a five-hundred-year-old supplement for a third and fourth child benefit child, made a significant step in promoting a family with a larger number of children, but there are still no systematic measures for families with five, six, seven and more children. The exception is, of course, the incentives of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity for about five hundred and thirty families with eight and more children. A moment ago, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin spoke of it. In light of the general objectives of national population policy, establishing a foundation is a contribution to raising the quality of life of these families and a clear message to many families that the state gives these families and children an increasingly important place in life. The Foundation opens up the possibility of expanding its activities and towards those families and children not covered by any existing support. The foundation of the foundation is aimed at the demographic maintenance of rural and poorly populated areas of Croatia, and will have special importance in the community involving local and regional self-government units, which has also been discussed, and institutions that care for children and families, as well as associations of citizens who gather families with numerous children. I actually have to express my satisfaction here, and I will say that I am truly happy to contribute with my voice to the adoption of this Foundation Act, whose goal is above all a noble intention. I express my satisfaction that, too, just a few days ago, I had the privilege of being a godfather of baptism, as mayor, in the seventh order of birth of a child in a family in Sibenik. This is an argument based on which it is apparent that children in larger urban areas will have no discriminatory status. However, greater opportunities are being opened for immaterial, as well as material forms of assistance. After all, our people say, the world remains for young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6935	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. No kuna spent on children is of course wasted in vain. But when we act as parliament, then we must act justly. We must act in such a way that the users of these decisions we make here are properly covered throughout society. That's not what this bill is about. That's why he has the wrong name. He should be called the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Foundation for Some Children because he certainly does not cover all children here. The matter of logic of our actions. That the logic of this bill is to secure money through a trust, through any form, for those children who live in families who make less than a certain amount. Let it be a thousand 663 kunas per household member without any other or any other sufficient assistance on any other basis. Then we would also fulfill the purpose of this legislative proposal, we would include these children, but we would also include all those children who unfortunately fell out of this bill without anyone knowing why. Because if our goal is to help us to have such a child, whether he lives in a family with two brothers and sisters, three, seven, very important. But if such a family achieved a minimum of 663 kuna per head of the family or any other sum we speak of, then they would act justly toward the whole society. Then every child in Croatia would be provided with that minimum and that would have to be the reason for our actions. We, however, do not act that way, but this law acts as discriminatory, indeed discriminatory towards children. Why? Because the parliamentary majority, the ruling party seems to be already fostering a family cult with five and more children for years and argues that the cult promotes the most innovative policy in Croatia, which is first incorrect. When we look at the number of reasons for this legislative proposal, we see that there are 421 thousand families in Croatia with one child and there are 4000 990 families with five children, with nine and more only 204 families. Progenital policy must go after it to increase the number of newborn children. How? So we have to make these 421 thousand families with one child smile to go to another child, to ensure at least a simple reproduction. The third child already ensures an extended reproduction of society. What are the reasons why families don't go after more than one child? Different reasons. It's not a natal policy, it's a policy so simple that there would always be only one reason but one reason is for sure that we live in Croatia today in a society that is uncertain before the future and every day becomes more and more insecure. Well, we don't have answers to that. The social picture of Croatia is getting worse every day. Croatia is becoming an ideal society for rich people, ideally. They will make dividends on their shares, millions of dollars and will not pay kuna taxes, and this parliamentary majority also supports this government. Mamic will sell the player, make millions of euros and will not pay a kuna tax. ... He won't pay. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And if he paid, then we could take better care of the children in Croatia. Why isn't the government proposing such a law to tax Mommy? We could vote it here in an emergency procedure in three hours and discuss it, and it would start in eight days. Yes, it would be the policy of this government, but the policy of this government is the protection of the rich. They benefit from it all the time and therefore this society becomes an increasingly difficult place for the lives of ordinary people, workers, pensioners, the share of average pensions in the average salary of the fall, pensioners living more and more difficult. There's no solution. There's no macroeconomic policy to stop it, stop the fall of citizens' standards. She's gone, we don't see her, there's nothing to offer. Commissions are established to monitor price increases. We're talking about the most intelligent policy, Mr. Vice President, about why people don't decide to have at least another child. Because in a society like that, it's hard to decide. Unless they're sure it's their other kid who's gonna become a stockholder or a football dealer. If they can achieve that, then their child's future is assured. But if they can't do that, then how they're gonna feed that other kid, what a future to get him. The further flaw in this bill is that he predicts funds by actually redistributing the same money from gambling and gambling and not saying here who they're going to take. The percentage of that money will be reduced for the disabled. It goes for the blind. Because, look, there is a special law that says that the money from it is shared by Secretary of State Adanic in percentages. The money from the cube is divided into percentages, goes to a certain percentage of people with disabilities, to certain athletes. Now it's meant to be taken out of that crowd, meaning each one of you twirl about something. So write down how many, how many blind people you're going to take. Write that people know how much less they will have under this law. That would be at least fair. At the very least, it would be fair to say that, now the blind will have less because we are going to enforce this law. The Governing Board shall appoint the Government on a proposal from its ministries and on a proposal from the parliamentary committee in which the parliamentary majority shall decide again. Where's the civil society? Where's the waist? Where is anyone but the government alone? I know, but the government has other instruments. Well, the government has its own budget, so let's schedule a budget on how he thinks it's smart. Why does she need a trust fund? Well, the idea of the foundation can't be that everyone else is excluded except the government alone. And finally, the nonsense they write in that law. It is said that the trustee will be resolved by procedure and as appointed. But let's watch his name. The Management Board shall decide on the appointment of the trustee by means of a public tender. What will the public tender and resolve the trustee? With your left hand written. It doesn't matter what he put into this law. Therefore, the idea of helping children in Croatia is good, praiseworthy and we will all support it. But to make a bill that will be fair to your children, which will fulfill the purpose for which it was founded, which will cherish as you have said family values. But what are family values? So is the responsible parenting of one of the family values? It should be. So let's not encourage irresponsible parenting unless that's our goal. If that's our goal, then this is a great law! But being a parent means being a responsible parent, not just having as many children as possible. It's not a value we should encourage as a society. But let's secure our parents' terms. Let's give the families conditions so they can be responsible parents. Therefore, by the second reading, make a fair bill. We'll all support him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6937	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6938	So there's a series of incorrect allegations. First a colleague, and well I'm under this, in front of a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the uncertainty of the future. We were insecure in the future that you were creating, I think, and this government is creating a future safer for children than it was when you abolished birth benefits and a three-year maternity leave. Although you would change the bill and call it "Croatian law" for some children. It is about your children, not only children in families with more children, but I told you that Article 4(3) tells you that children from families who have one child are also respected. What? [[Intruder: Extraordinary.]] No, I don't. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6939	When you talk fast, then forget to turn on the microphone, so you've had it all along. Dear Representative Ivan Bagaric, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since the assembly is in a stable manner and a kind of theater in that segment I wouldn't enter because I'm not a theatre critic. I leave that here to dear Peter Selem. However, I must correct two incorrect allegations. One was when you said it was that not all children are properly covered in Croatia when it comes to support. [[Don't you think you're in young days and now?]] You should know that the third and fourth children have the ultimate supplement. Thus, it is encouraged by a third and fourth child with an intrinsic supplement. And what about children who are five, six and over? So it's exactly the target group to go to with this law. On the other hand, you said this was an insecure society. So how's the insecure company? Croatia is safer every day in every respect. You're only talking about protecting the rich. I would say that Croatia should protect both the rich and the poorer, and when you spoke about Mamic and I don't know who, then last night you could look "Open" where Finance Minister Schuker very nicely explained how it seems and what should be done to me, and it really reminds me that you really are calling, and I personally don't know the permanent dictatorship of proletariats and honest intelligence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6941	Thank you very much. Third. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6942	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, I would like to correct today's incorrect allegations, and I would have to agree with what Honorable colleague Stazic said, that the most intelligent policy is not simple, and we saw it best, I will repeat again, before 2000 to 2003, how this policy was implemented, how the coalition government exercised it. And I also reject any incorrect assumption that Croatia is becoming an insecure society. We were more insecure seven years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6943	And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do to correct one quote from Agent Stazic, since I'm correcting everything he said incorrectly, I wouldn't be half an hour done. But it's not true, I repeat once again that this law does not protect all families. It is not true and you share again, it is true, that you share again Croatian families and children. Because we all know that you are a professional dramatologist and here in this assembly turn every debate into drama.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6945	Okay. Let's play dramaturgy, directors. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6946	Mr. Vice-President, Article 209 requires that an incorrect assumption be corrected and the correct assumption cannot be corrected. Therefore, if the law says that this foundation of five and more children is established for families, then it cannot be claimed that it is incorrect what the representative said. You can't say that, because we don't have an exact quote from that institute yet. But I would suggest that it be introduced so HDZ representatives can use it normally in all their interventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6947	That's the law's name, that's the law's name. But the bill does not exclude other children and does not involve only children, only families with five and more children, so it could not be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6948	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, first of all, the debate of colleagues from the opposition encouraged me to report on this subject and speak more than the need to defend this law, i.e. this Proposal for a Law on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, simply for the reason that everyone in their right mind and I have no doubt that you will absolutely give support to this proposal. Because everyone's normal and every normal state and politics are children above all else and above all else. However, the way the actual opposition discusses the laws that come from the government to the assembly, for me personally, is very strange. The way you're discussing it, it's very strange to me. I'd very briefly refer to your discussions, and then I'd say more about what I have to say about this. When it's said that the government seems a little bit, that it's not enough, that it's exclusive, that I don't know either, that we're selecting children, that this, that that. You just say things that don't stand. I understand it's a matter of opposition to criticise, to encourage, to make legal proposals better. And that's completely understandable. But if it doesn't seem, and it seems, a certain play is actually to make something that's quite right and perfectly normal, and if there's nothing to do, it's in a certain way making fun of, then it's really pointless. I have no doubt that, say, the government did not go with such a law or similar, that a proposal should come out of your ranks as it should. So when something seems to be happening, then what does it look like? When it doesn't seem, why doesn't it seem? When the European Union is elected between, I do not know, the ZERP and the European Union, but when it is necessary to vote as it is not easy for us, etc., then it is not voted for. When you want to speak against corruption and work against corruption, and when such laws are passed, then everything that seems and what is done is not just trying to improve with advances, then you actually make fun of it. And it's actually totally unacceptable, at least from my point of view. So, since on several occasions and already correcting the incorrect allegations I've talked about, I don't think I'd be coming back to that again, and I don't think that's a good thing. Short and clear, no one here has ruled out any children. No one here has privileged a single group. No one here has sorted children in Croatia into city and rural. It's just that it's logical to assume that every family wants one or two children, and it's giving birth to them. And therefore, and all that the government has given and maternity leave and all that is expensive, in a certain way, it is promoted. The government also adopted other regulations and everything necessary for the optimal supplement for the third and fourth children. You stayed, and then you made comments about how, and what about the children on the fifth, sixth and seventh, so I remember in the previous assembly, you were constantly criticizing and asking questions about what happened to the fifth, sixth, and I don't know which kid. And now the government is intervening, and now that you're doing it, you're discriminating those who have two and three children. Well, it's really incomprehensible. So let's put a little order in it. The government has simply made it a priority right now, a target group and is talking to it more, not excluding anyone. Just like if an internal department is to be built in some environment, that doesn't mean that the homes of health are abandoned. If you need to operate on a man's appendix, that doesn't mean he hasn't received medical care in primary health care. So let's stay away from it and it's really unconvincing. I think we're actually different here on another basis, and that's still a certain valuey attitude towards children, to the number of children, and to the policy of all of this. You're leaving, so one side of this assembly is that if someone has one or two children and then doesn't have all the conditions or preconditions, then they won't have a third and a fourth. So I ask you, and what about rich people who choke in their wealth, and they don't have any children or have one or two, but they don't have five. So, of course, it is good for all of us to build a state, to build a society that will support every family. But let us be sure that we will not achieve this, regardless of how stable and rich Croatia is every day, that we will achieve this, that this wealth will result in a greater number of children. I'm just afraid of the delusions, the stings of every species and the freedoms that people give themselves to be right, and they won't, or they don't see this country, that this people die. This people are dying right now. And that should be made clear. In the last 100 years, about a million and 200,000 people have been missing in this country just because of a negative immigration balance. As a result of emigration, people have calculated that so many people are missing. And if I'm not talking about the elements and it's not this question, it's not the subject of demographics, but it's in itself because it applies to children, then we need to know that it is. We have to make a diagnosis and ask ourselves honestly for that question, not close our eyes and not criticize what it is and what it is. Whoever wants to have one or two children, and that's what he decided for this and for that reason, even if he doesn't think that he can handle more children, I don't doubt the number of you here at all, and I personally didn't have what my children have. However, I assure you, and I have no doubt about it, theirs, my childhood, and yours I hope was no less happy than my own children's childhood. So, certainly the more, the better anyway, but really, not everything in the cups. Whoever wants one or two children can't expect one and two children from one athlete, one Goran Ivanisevic, one Niku, the Nick of this one downstairs, Kovac, I don't know who, one explorer, one builder, one model, or you don't know who. And not to mention that we need to extend our lives to this people. Inside the struggle for one or two children there is no life in this people. Therefore, every child is welcome, a gift to those who have, and having children is great, but if there is no child in this country, then the effort of the players is in vain. So, finally, this law is aimed at multiple children. It's directed, not to encourage birth, as much as to those children who are already there, to live children. They're in the family, so we need to help them. As much as from your mouths, I don't doubt that you at all, I know that you want well, but you speak from the position of opposition, and especially now that it's television transmission, then you should talk and criticize the government, then it doesn't matter what or what. I have no doubt that you want well. So let's figure it out, it's more worth the help, the people would say, any of these kids, than a thousand kunas of compassion. So what the government is doing is doing thousands of godfathers, I'd say, is doing millions of kunas. It's certainly worth more than hundreds of millions of compassions coming out of whose mouth. And finally, I suggest to you, Mr. Secretary of State, that when you open this foundation, if God will, you open it, and you'll probably open a website. In my opinion, it would be very nice to offer on that website the possibility of every citizen, every citizen of this country and every company or anyone else that he can join and be, say, a friend of children. Here, during the war, there was an institution that wasn't irrelevant and it wasn't irrelevant and it played, in my opinion, a very important role, which is so-called. Godfather to the children. That means, families that are... kids and the state wasn't able to take responsibility at that time, then some people said okay, I'll take over I don't know her, or richer families etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These godmothers, or support, were significant for many children. And imagine now that we do such a thing, to raise it to one such level where people would compete, where it would be a matter of social prestige that I am the godfather of one child. I'm actually a supporter of one child, one family. I have the right to put in my logo, my companies, my business, my company is a friend of the children, and the foundation for these children in that sense would grow up then and this group and be what you want. So we could even come up with one maybe I don't know what kind of badge, badge or anything, which would actually be assigned then, so people like me wouldn't even know about marking this one or that one wearing certain characters as a sign I don't know... or scientific or which belongings that would and would be one I would say a very beautiful star in the act of any person and any institution. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6949	Thank you. A few replicas. First, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6950	Thank you very much. First of all, against your exposure, I stand up with a replica, not like you to me by correcting an incorrect quote, but that's probably because you didn't have the courage, you don't, and you'll never have the courage to expose yourself to the risk of a response to a replica. Secondly, with all your corrections to the incorrect allegations that you are constantly using, you are constantly attacking the theatre, thus showing your own cultural needs areufactured and you are risking yourself to resent your colleagues, Selema. Third, you're saying the law hasn't privileged any children. Article 4 of the support of this Act is a family that has at least five children or children of the same family in the joint household. I repeat, at least five children or children of the same family. And then further, an exceptional support user can be another child if and when it is some general acts of the foundation. The logic of this law is the support of one, not all. Furthermore, you say Croatia is safer and richer today. You disagree with your prime minister, the president of your party, who says most importantly that we are not hungry, that's the most important thing. ... Yeah, the most important thing is that we're not hungry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the last thing. This logic of your treatment with the help of children, with the help of children, I don't understand. You say we're not going to show our children justice, operate on the appendix. Well, clearly we won't, because we have to one. Of course! But to pass that logic on to material help to children who can live in a single-parent family, without having these thousand 663 kunas minimum, and we rule it out by this law, if that logic, that logic cannot be applied to your medical logic of operating your appendix.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6951	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6952	This is proof that some actors really need to write the text, that he is unable to write it himself. So like this, I didn't underestimate the theater at all, but I said the Parliament is a kind of theater. But I said, I'm not an expert in assessing your performances from that position, but then I called on our professor who used to do it. So I don't question my relationship with our esteemed professor, nor did I hurt anyone at the theater. On the other hand, you keep showing us and discovering hot water that this applies to fifth, sixth, etc. child. It is! Well, that's the point. But at the same time, you're neither interested nor listening when we say there's a potential supplement for a third and fourth child, and there's no fifth, sixth. So we're dealing with this in a certain way, and that's the point. What else was that? Oh, yeah, when I was talking about medical comparisons, I wasn't talking about treating kids and pulling out children's appendixes, I was just making a parallel. So here we're talking about the policy of the most intelligent, and when we talk about one child, I was going to say not to rule out another then I said, it's the same thing as in one hospital, in one city we need an internal department, that means, it doesn't rule out that we don't need a home of health. So that's all I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6953	Next replica, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6954	Dear counterpart Bagaric wonders why and how the opposition is critical of the government's proposals coming before this House of Commons. I don't know where there's even room for the surprise of such a species, because the task of opposition is not the apologism of power, it shouldn't be even the task of the ruling majority. But looking at how you suffer greatly from time to time with your teeth squeezed because you would say something, but you can't, because you're threatened by party discipline, sometimes we have to say what you think. But the most common thing is that we are trying in every possible way to make the proposals coming from the Government of the Republic of Croatia even better by critical analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6955	Gentlemen MPs, peace please!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6956	Make them even better. Because it's true that the desire for a better desire is what we all share. In any case, when you say no one has discriminated against anyone here, it seems to me that you're trying to counter what they're going to do and how the foundation is going to work. Unfortunately, we won't be able to discuss it because this law stipulates that the foundation is giving a report to the government. So if we don't say now what in the root, in the foundations of that foundation, must be firm, right, fair and fair, and then and fair, we will never have that opportunity again but the government will regularly receive those reports, we won't know what's going on there. In the end, let me say it. When we say that the proposal for this law has a whole series of disadvantages that are fundamental in nature, which is that the promoter does not understand the idea of a foundation, that he has not secured a trust fund, that with his objectives and mission of the foundation too narrowly, he has skipped out then of course we want the trust because we want it to exist as long as there is a need, to encourage children who are depressed. So, just to give you a chance to say something, I've been looking for a replica, not a correction to the incorrect quote that you're serving, to actually prevent a discussion about the measure of things. And otherwise, I strongly protest Mrs. Šolić, do not discuss without mentioning Bandic at least once. It happens to you every once in a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6957	Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6958	Comrade Beus, I am not avoiding a debate with you or with anyone on any subject. However, when I was correcting you, and I wasn't giving you a replica, then you should know that according to the Rules of Procedure when you speak behind this pay phone, I can't lift a line at all. So I can't according to the Rules of Procedure, I can only correct the incorrect allegations, you've said that the administrative council, that I don't know God's rule will put people who will lead this trust in power, etc., and will be incompetent and not be able to manage etc. I have pointed out that the ministry from which these people come, the Parliament, and all that stands neatly in the proposal regarding the administrative council, not the council, but the board of directors are actually experts who are all of them, which you say they are not. On the other hand, when you say that your role is to criticize, critically analyze, excellent. Absolutely. But I wonder how it's missing out. He's not here. Then what's up? You said in advance you didn't see any worse material in the Parliament. So, I'm saying it's been a while since the material got here, and you're saying it couldn't have been worse. Therefore, we differ in the basics. You're against this material, I'm against it. So I'm not taking your right to criticise and to critically analyze or I don't know that you're looking back, but to throw everything away at the expense of criticism, that's not good. And when it comes to the party. That's why we're in power. Because we have order in the party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6959	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6960	Dear Mr. Representative Bagaric. I didn't mean to answer the line, but I had to do some things because I've been listening here for a long time on both sides and on the left and on the right of this shooting. But here's what you asked me to do. In many things I would agree with your settings, but some things I had to do, some things I had to react to. In fact, there's always a way around here that this is part of the most intelligent policy. You've represented it less than some others who say it dogmatically represent it's part of the ultimate policy. I would ask you if someone would plan a family with five and more children precisely for the reasons that are listed here by this bill, which is because of family holidays, for organizing school trips, etc. You have filled that gap of 2 and 5 with a third and fourth child to say so with measures and rates that the government has also taken for the purpose of the ultimate policy. Do you think that's enough, that's what was offered to families with three and four children, and that's what they ended up with. I would rather, I would be happier if this law, which I would call the Foundation Law 5+, called the Foundation Law 3+, then, if we concluded that the third child brings that advantage to gain in demographic terms for the demographic development of Croatia and improving the demographic image of Croatia, then we would have to think about all possible conditions that we can give families with three and more children. And that someone decides to have five children because his child is going to go on vacation, I don't know in Old Town or I don't know where or that he's going on a trip to Mark's Square where there's recently been a forbidden reunion or that he's going on a trip to see the statue of King Tomislav or I don't know what. That's hardly a measure. Thus, this law will be difficult to change parents ’ view of having or planning five or more children. What I'm going to say at the next item of the agenda is that there are many other measures that can help to think about parents who have more children and make it a real policy of art, which is that our kindergartens are free of charge as they are in other Western countries. There's something else I wanted to say. You're also talking about the tax rate Mr. Stazic spoke about, so you also mentioned that rich people who don't have children will help, etc. I'd like to see that, too. And for the tax rate, it would take a different tax policy than we have, therefore, changes in tax law. One more thing, you were talking about emigration, the departure of people from Croatia. So what are they leaving for? Because of the economic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6961	Thank you. Answer Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I may say so, my colleague Grubisic likes your replica unlike the destructive replicas we just heard. So this is just critical to analyze, to look back, to criticize, and actually to do better. I agree with one part of your exposure, but I still have one thing to point out. Thus, it states here neatly that the national population policy measures 10th in the field of child care is prescribed the establishment of a non-profit foundation "Croatia for children". So it is already the government's obligation to do this and also made a commitment to the document that we have brought in whose resources have contributed to the development of the preferredest trend, the empowerment of a family with a greater number of children. Each of these foundations according to national population policy is to sensitize society, that's what I was saying, yes, for the purposes of raising the quality of family life of multiple families. So it's just a target group. And we admit it. More families that have more children, it is understood that more children need more needs. Also, that focus on the attention of children in rural areas, I repeat, does not mean neglecting children in cities, but is assumed that children in small villages have fewer opportunities for sport and music and for all others. Thus, this foundation goes in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6963	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6964	Mr. Bagaric, I wasn't talking about rural environments...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6965	Rule of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6966	This Regulation shall enter According to Article 209. Mr Bagarić uses the term rural, and I have not said a word about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6967	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6968	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6969	All right, let's move on. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6970	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This debate has been going on for a long time, and I think there are pretty clear views in it. In my debate, I would actually like to present the position of coordination of the association for children of this law. Since the co-ordination of children's associations has been working in Croatia for four years, in recent days as well as the formal network of children's associations. It is a total of over 30 associations and they participate in the work and Council for Civil Society Development and in the work of the Children's Council and, in fact, all these years we have heard from the Government an extremely large advocate and development of civil society as well as for the involvement of the interested public and from this part of the social scene in the process of law-making. In a letter that they sent to a number of parliamentary committees, but also to some of us, the co-ordination of children’s associations expresses a distinct astonishment that none of the children’s associations had any information about the foundation being established. They are, all the associations dealing with children, very uncomfortable with the fact that such an important matter has not been discussed at the Council for Children, which is the advisory body of the Government, which the government itself has formed, precisely in these affairs and in the process of making these laws and decisions. Therefore, representatives, i.e. the Management Board of the Coordination of Associations for Children, concludes that the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a foundation, without prior public debate, is extremely non-transparent and incompatible with the minimum standards of consultation with the interested public, and even with some democratic standards, which are so slow and slowly implemented in the political life of Croatia. What many MPs and MPs have said here warns us about the coordination of children's associations. According to Article 4(1) of the Law, which states that the beneficiary of the support for the foundation and family that has five children or children in the joint household, the Foundation is intended as support to exclusively multiple families, which is assessed by the coordination of children's associations as discriminatory and contrary to the Convention on the Rights of a Child as a Child, not by a group of children from multi-member families. They warn that paragraph 3 establishes the possibility that the beneficiary of the trust may be a family with fewer children or children from that family, but thus assesses that only the privileged position of multi-member families and children in those families is confirmed. In this context, we are warned from the coordination of associations for children, therefore, from all important associations in Croatia dealing with children, that it is not clear why and in which respect children from multiple families are initially threatened or suspended, that is why apriori assumes that in material rights and possibilities they are more deprived of children, for example. unemployed parents, parents who are sick and unable to earn money, single parents, or children with some illnesses. Personally, and I believe all of that interested public, the question awaits an answer and we hope to hear it in the final presentation of the promoter. The co-ordination of children's associations also looks back on the government's intelligence policy, they say they consider it positive and support it. However, that they believe that the foreseeable foundation does not represent a good way to address this problem since the state has at its disposal a number of other instruments to promote birth, and that is all we have here today, among other things, and talked about, but, on the other hand, that from the other side of the coordination of associations for children and other civil society organisations, they have projects that contribute to solving these problems and they actually think that the establishment of this particular foundation is not necessary. And then I remind you of a rather interesting detail that has not yet been mentioned here in the debate and which I am interested in. My colleagues and colleagues, you've known that since '91. In Croatia, there is a humanitarian foundation for children of Mrs. Ankica Tudjman, who among other activities, has just as a priority provided assistance for children from multiple families. Why are we setting up another foundation with the same purpose? We already have a foundation. The co-ordination of children's associations rebelled in the envisaged way of funding the foundation. They do not understand how it remained in the positions of the Ministry of Family, Defence, Intergenerational Solidarity, a significant amount of 8 million kuna of neutral funds in 2007 that were to be used to finance civil society organisations dealing with the fight against addictions and problems of meeting the need for disability, and they are also estimating the totally unacceptable means of allocating to a children's trust fund, since even in the problem of persons with disabilities, or abuse of intoxicating drugs, many other activities are also needed. The co-ordination of children's associations requested and had a meeting at the Child's Attorney General's Office. You can find these notes about that meeting on the Ombudsman's website. They asked for a discussion here on the board, but apparently someone in the government had an idea, let's make another foundation to promote ourselves a little bit and show that we are very caring, and this is not including the interested public, nor do they really care about the welfare of all children, but rather focus on a narrow segment of multi-member families for which, I repeat, there is already a foundation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6971	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6972	Thank you very much. I think it is extremely good that my colleague Lugaric warned of one dimension of the problem and that we often discuss in the Assembly the most intelligent policy, and each one of us starts from his point of view to argue why the Croatian family no longer has children in the Croatian family. The association's coordination warned of three, four things I understood very well. What makes them think that the goal of the foundation will not be fully warned? I would be far happier to always, not just now, but whenever the government comes before the Parliament with certain such proposals, we have, not data but evidence and to ask the parents of a family with one or two children, why no more children. Is it just a question of money, is such research ever done in Croatia, is it just a question of money or would they put the apartment in the first place for young families, jobs, place in kindergarten, do they have the possibility of enrolling in high school, college? Are these also the problems of Natalie or the most intelligent policies? This foundation does not solve it and does not have to solve it, but as the founder of a foundation that helps citizens, and especially children, in a health domain, ten years ago, I assure you that there are serious problems in this area, especially with those children, as my colleague Bagarić said alive, but who exist, who have special needs or difficulties. Well, for example, buy a computer to a blind child tailored to a blind child costs you 75 thousand kuna. And without that computer, a child can't finish school, not elementary, not high school. And by no system of state aid, nor in social or health care, the state does not help in such cases, and such children, in the regular system of education in Croatia, in primary and secondary schools, if I have accurate data, are already over 156. Now, one bite of help and a drop of help for these families won't solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6973	Thank you. Answer, Ms. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6974	Comrade Lesar, you in your replica are actually reminding of one, here an old debate of us who were here in the old mandate, which was about the most intelligent policy when some of us were quite unsuccessfully trying to warn that in Croatia there was a struggle for the first, or second child. In Croatia, according to the average family of 1.4 children and we do not have to fight for the fifth, sixth and tenth children. We have a fight in Croatia for another child. I would also like it if my colleagues in the majority understood and accepted this reality and not engaged in such, slightly demagogue actions, but really showed, respecting all Croatian realities and our interests that they really cared about those real, honest and necessary population policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6975	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6976	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I will say very briefly that the goal of this government, in fact, of the government in the last term, is, from 3 to 7 years, a great goal has been achieved, and this is that a halted decline in the birth rate by 2003 has been recorded. So, we've had a worrying decline of birth, and that's the great success of this government if it's stopped that fall, and Natalie's going to better days to put it that way. I must also remind here the outcome of all our dilemmas and this law, or the bill's proposal, is in the national population policy, in 2006 in the field of child care to the extent of the 10th, I quote: "to establish a non-profit foundation "Croatia for children" whose resources would bring about the development of a desirable innovative trend and empowerment of families with a higher number of children". So, we're making the Parliament's conclusion. I don't know where the problem is. I must also say here that the foundation is managed by a board of seven members, and we all know very well that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint these members from the ranks of prominent and recognised experts. They must absolutely be eminent and acknowledge the experts because otherwise it could not work. It's ours in some way and a request. Furthermore, the foundation is financed it is precisely from gambling revenues and in accordance with Article 17(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Act on Foundations and Foundations, as well as other funds for donations and other incomes that will be in the capital of that foundation. I also have to say that this law really does not discriminate against anyone but has its target group and the target group means the fifth, sixth, seventh children because the eighth and the remaining child is in some way already the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity funding those children, as well as the third and fourth ones where it gives an intrinsic supplement. And with a series of innovative measures that I mentioned in the opening presentation goes to the welfare of children, first and second children. I must also say that we are also preparing a new law, the Law on maternity and parental support, which will also provide for unemployed women, unemployed births, farmers means those who do not also provide rights as if they are employed during maternity leave. I must also say that it is not true that we have taken the funds at the expense of civil society associations. Look, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has precisely prescribed funds that have put all civil society associations in the competition and these funds have been spent. The second thing that was excess funds that couldn't be planned at the beginning of the year because people were... so there was more funding for that year and these funds will be spent solely for the benefit of this society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be noted that persons with disabilities are not only discriminated against or damaged, but that this year, unlike last year, we predicted an almost double the amount for a personal assistant. So this year we'll have 15 million kuna for the purpose of introducing a personal assistant. The competition is right in the daily press and it's still going on, it's going on for 30 days. I think the Associations for Persons with Disabilities will report to this contest and we will increase the number of those persons who will receive a personal assistant which is a great pleasure to us. Also, this year it won't be a pilot project anymore. We're talking about it being a pilot project, and you've said it a few times. We're in the making of a new law on personal assistant. So we're doing this law, and we're hoping that he'll be done by the end of the year to become a legal norm. As for Miss Lugaric's proposal, she said she had received a letter from the Children's Association. It's true, and I got that letter. However, they say this law was not on the Children's Council. It couldn't have been for the simple reason that the Children's Council hasn't established this new one yet. ... Look, you know the situation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's being built. These days will be, this week and the next will be established by the Children's Council and also this Coordination Association for Children has participated in national population policy and it knows exactly what is prescribed by measure 10. and they are precisely familiar with this. The other thing is that in some ways they have some observations now why there are two associations of "Croatia for Children" so this association. This association is formed by law. So, the government has made a proposal, the Parliament will adopt the law and this association will have much more resources and much more opportunities to work for the interests and welfare of children than other associations. That's actually the whole point. So, I thank all of you who participated in this discussion for your comments, for your suggestions. We will accept all suggestions and remarks that go in the interest of the welfare of children, and we will consider all these remarks. In the Ministry I have a team of experts working on this law and I hope that in the second reading we will make one law or offer one law that will be unanimously accepted because this child problem, the family is very much a problem that touches the soul of each of us. And also, I'll finally say it. Mr. Bagaric said why we don't have some companies or some other rich people to finance the children. That's a good point. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is also in competition with the means of daily communication, you can read 15 days in Vjesnik a competition for the company "Friends of Children's Family" and for the local community "Friends of Children and Family". Therefore, we as the Ministry of Family and Defence are extremely sensitive and we already have this contest for Family Day, which is 15.5. this year I hope that the best companies that help families, which help children, that the best local community that helps the family and children will receive these valuable rewards all in terms of both interest and welfare of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6977	Thank you. We have two corrections. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6978	Mr. Secretary of State has made it incorrect for me that this proposal for a law of the Association of Civil Society and Persons with Disabilities and others will not be abolished or discriminated against. It's simply not true because you predicted the funds from this lottery, gambling and the like, you didn't say in which amount and didn't tell who you were going to take, which percentage of which association you're going to take. Therefore, this bill will nevertheless include discrimination and suspension in one part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6979	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6980	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's how it is, Mr. Secretary of State. As hard as we try not to prove discrimination, it exists. Since children with difficulties will not be able to use content in any kind of excursions, this, for the simple reason that spaces are unaccessible. It's a first. Secondly, I'd really like you to prove to me that this year's law will function as a personal assistant, since there's a competition going on for another 300 people with disabilities to get a personal assistant institute. And I would also prefer that there may be a foundation for orthopedic supplement, because we know that children with developmental difficulties and young people can't because of inappropriate orthopaedic aids, and the state doesn't provide them with what they need. So I can't go to schools and say sports games, competitions and everything other kids can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6981	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. I suggest that points 11, 12 and 13, i.e. Proposal for a national pedagogical standard of preschool education and education, 12. The proposal of the state pedagogical standard of primary education and education systems and the proposal of the state pedagogical standard of the secondary education system is discussed under one item of the agenda. So, let's combine these three points of the agenda, with representatives of the clubs instead of 15 minutes of reasoning or their discussions having 20 minutes, and that individual discussions may remain 10 if you think that's enough. If you don't think so, maybe 12. I suggest, if the clubs increase the possibility in five minutes, then there'll be 10 for the MPs. Okay? Further and opening statements will remain within a total half hour, although according to the Rules of Procedure, half an hour can be paid for each item of the agenda. Mr. Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6983	Mr. President, I appreciate your suggestion, because he's going for rationalization. However, on behalf of my club I can say that unfortunately colleagues who were intended to speak on behalf of the club seem to me 12 and 13 points are currently outside the assembly and therefore, they will lose the right to speak on behalf of the club if it is unique and I will have to speak for the two points for which they seem to be preparing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6984	Well, come in, it's not a problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6985	Well, the problem is, because...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6986	All the clubs, here's the principle. The agenda of the 11th is the first one, and we would argue first. We took that. All those who signed up at that point are going in order. Then you add them to the 12th point for those who didn't sign up under 11. And so it means for the 13th, and there's nothing I know about the reason that whoever signed up can apply for all three points of the agenda. He is believed to have applied for all three points of the agenda. And here. More Mrs. Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6987	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, we in the SDP agree with this proposal, and given this suggestion, we have another additional proposal. Since we stayed for ten minutes in individual discussions that we might turn the final five minutes into the final 10 minutes, so that these colleagues who may not be present at the time of the debate can also tell the part in the final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6988	I think this is, okay, that this is the right way. Who hasn't expressed his opinion or failed, I think the final clubs should be ten instead of five, so let's settle it that way. Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6989	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but then I'd like to ask you to give us representatives who don't have clubs, so allow us at least 15 minutes of debate alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6990	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't allow or dispute, but I'm trying to consult to see how the most rational get out of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6991	So I accept all the suggestions you've made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6992	If we can take it as a principle, if there are MPs, and apparently there are who are not members of the clubs to be granted an exceptional 15-minute hearing. So, let's not go personally, but representatives who aren't at the club. If that's okay with us, then we can move on. Here, Mr. Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6993	Mr. President, we have here a situation of the HDSSB club where we both set ourselves up for, to say a word on behalf of the Representatives' Club. So, one for preschool, one for preschool. Can we share a minute? Well, thank you very much. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6994	So a minute can be divided the way you arrange it, just so it's as much as we said. Here, if we have solved these dilemmas, we can move on to - a proposal from the state pedagogical standard of pre-school education - a proposal from the state pedagogical standard of primary education system - a proposal from the state budget of the pedagogical standard of secondary education system So, for all three points, I say the proposer of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the report at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? I'm going to pray that at first, it will be pointed out which points are to be spoken of by a certain protagonist. Here you go. Ms Diana Vican, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6995	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. I will explain the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education and the National Pedagogical Standard of Primary Education and Education. Before I begin the presentation, I must point out that the names of these documents are different, and that difference stems from the validity of the titles of the law on which the standards are made. Pedagogical standards consist of a series of standards or normatives relating to spatial, staff, technical, informational, health-hygienic conditions necessary for the quality implementation of educational and educational work in pre-school institutions and primary schools. The reason for the adoption of a pedagogical standard as a special document or specific documents is amongst their obsolescence. For example. The last standards for preschool education, the last standards as a single document, were adopted in 1983, are still valid today as a document entitled "Standards of Social Care for Preschool Children." All other standards are written on a partial basis as rules with several articles and are only changed on a partial basis. Therefore, the objectives of adopting a pedagogical standard are not only up-to-date but also next. First of all, the aim is to ensure uniform learning and teaching conditions in preschools and primary schools. Secondly, enabling the valid value of education implies equal conditions that ensure effective measurement of all educational components. Third, the objective of adopting a pedagogical standard is to enable clear, rational and transparent employment in pre-school institutions and primary schools. And lastly, ensuring even funding and investment in the education system, and equipping schools. The number of preschool institutions in the Republic of Croatia in 2007 is 623, the number of children in the preschool system, the ten-hour preschool programme is 98 thousand. This figure does not mean anything until we compare what is inside preschool institutions, such as the inequality of the programme. For example, children attend preschool programs for 250 hours, but the reality is that they go somewhere with 100 hours, somewhere with 150 hours, and nowhere else. If we enter the primary school system in 871 schools in Croatia, we have 70 schools with 100 students, we have 45 schools with a thousand to a thousand 600 students. All 30% of schools in Croatia have an ideal number of 200 to 400 students. We have schools with special status. So one-fifth of schools make up island schools, schools with difficult working conditions, schools in areas of special state care, we have an unsatisfactory number of schools with extended living conditions. The desire to achieve education in one shift, in particular, assumes the need to develop a pedagogical standard. A certain reduction in schools that work in 3 shifts has been achieved since 2005 until today, but the plan is to cancel, not only work schools in 3 shifts until 2010, but create conditions for all schools in one shift and should be kept in mind that 69% of schools work in 2 shifts today. The basis for drawing up a teaching standard is a student, so the first plan is to put students and teaching standards are to be adopted for all students involved in the formal system of pre-school education and primary education. In particular, standards are developed for children and students with special needs, especially for children with developmental difficulties, gifted children, sick children, children and students of national minorities, students of foreigners, children and students of Croatian citizens abroad. These standards bring down the number of children in educational groups that vary terribly in the Croatian preschool system, so today we have a condition that we have groups of 36 children, with these standards reduced to 22, the number of children and educators for the work of children with special needs in kindergartens, i.e. students in school departments where the range of children is also tremendously large, from 4 students to 39 pupils. The optimal number according to this pedagogical standard is 20. With these standards, the first time a school opens in a time between educational and teaching periods. What is regulated is the transportation of students, as it should be considered that 23% of primary school students are passengers. This standard reduces the time a student can spend in transport to a maximum of 2 hours. A student's diet is regulated. Equipment of preschool institutions and primary schools with modern equipment and didactic materials is an elementary educational and educational standard that should also become a reality in all Croatian schools. A number of direct holders of educational activities have been identified: educators, teachers, teachers, professional associates. Pedagogical standards are a fundamental assumption for the development of a network of schools, i.e. the rational use of existing facilities, and then the construction of new ones. The special network of schools without architectural barriers and schools with special class departments of children with motor skills and students will ensure that education is available in their immediate environment, instead of their separation from the family for accommodation in specialised institutions, which is today a practice. The criteria for the organisation of teaching in a health institution and the individualised forms of teaching for sick children staying at home have been established. The maximum burden of students was determined by teaching school work, 25 hours in classroom class, 30 hours in the classroom. 41% of primary schools don't have a gym. According to educational needs, the need for staffs to improve and improve the efficiency of the education system has also been shown, and they are part of the teaching standard. It is possible to form professional mobile teams, enable teams of polyvalent experts for children with disabilities, for small schools and for those with difficult working conditions. Presumably, the employment and engagement of assistants in the teaching of these sign - letter translators. Standards and values, i.e. monitoring and measurement of the quality of standards. Standards are set in development with a time-range performance coefficient, so that some elements are in place immediately after acceptance, some in 3, 5, 7 and 9 years. For example. A reduction in the number of students in the departments will be made immediately, while construction of sports halls and swimming pools will be planned for 2022. It should also be borne in mind that pedagogical standards also assume relying on educational standards which are specified in the Proposal for Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Finally, the objective of the pedagogical standards is also the way towards European standards, sources of funding and investment in increasing the pedagogical standard, is to be provided by means of budgets, i.e. decentralisation of funds, local administration funds and European Investment Bank funds and the Central European Bank funds. That would be my report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6996	Thank you very much. Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6997	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. In this second part, let me say a few introductory words about the proposed state pedagogical standard for secondary education, i.e. for high school institutions, which refers to high school, vocational schools, art schools and student schools. Let me say at the outset that the necessary investments will be needed, and we as a ministry are obliged when we send a proposal to the competent ministries, the Ministry of Finance makes it clear how much it will cost and in the system of secondary education that financial impact assessment form is 2 billion and 850 million kuna in this period until 2022. If I were to talk about how much will be invested in a particular part of this system, then I would say that, I will start from the smallest amount, at least invest in dormitories, for the reason that we have a fairly developed network of high school institutions in all our counties in the Republic of Croatia and that it is mostly close to high school and most often in high school travel. So for many years, we have unfulfilled student homes for this very reason. So to those empty places in the dormitory according to the decision made every year, we offer those places and students especially in those places where there is not enough room in the dormitories. These premises in our dormitories are mostly sufficient, but they will require investment to edit these spaces and to equip those spaces. The other parts of the system, of course, require significantly larger investments. I don't want to say this to you that in the dormitory it won't be invested as much as it takes, just as it is said in these standards that apply to our dormitories. One part of us, with the achievement of these standards, started as it seemed, in fact, before, and investments significantly higher in the construction of school facilities in equipment, so with cabinet equipment, we have invested a lot of funds especially since it became an active World Bank loan two years ago. Let me say about what the projection is. At this point, we have 187,000 students in the system of high school education. In 2006, therefore, we do not have data from the State Statistics Institute for 2007, but in 2006, 41 000 and 446 children were born in the Republic of Croatia. According to the trend we have, 2007 will likely show something less, so it is realistic to expect that the number of students in the secondary education system will decrease. Of course, we are counting on always having a student who will come from neighbouring countries, especially from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that number will be greater because of that. But for the sake of comparison, last year, the eighth grade ended in 48 thousand and 778 students. This year 2007, so it's going to be students who are going to go to first grade high school in 2022, and that's why I'm talking about these numbers. So the total amount when we look at the entire educational vertical from preschool to high school education, the total amount needed to realize this according to current prices is about 10 billion kuna. This amount, of course, will not be raised only from the state budget, but also from the founders of our schools as it is already by the laws and provided for when it comes to capital investments, when it comes to investment maintenance, etc. In this standard, we are talking about standards for the size of high school institutions, given the number of classrooms and students in high school. We're reducing that number, but we're flexible here and we say up to 20 to 28, it's optimally 24, but that doesn't mean that schools in mountain-mounted areas, that schools on islands can't have a smaller number. It's a practice we've always had so far and it's a practice we'll continue with. The number of pupils in the educational group in the dormitories is also reduced, so we say that 15 or 20, and if it is groups where we have students with difficulties, then the number in the group is reduced compared to their number, as well as in the classrooms. We are talking, of course, about the number of workers needed in educational institutions, and we are talking about exactly what we are talking about, from the principal to the others, and when it comes to teachers, that's how it fits the programs that we have in high school institutions. Furthermore, in this standard, we are talking about the criteria for implementing educational process in terms of the burden of students in follow-up, we stay for the 30 hours a week in five days, so the 6 hours per lesson load When I talk about the dispensation to mention, we talk more about discharging than content, and less about this. This also discusses the accommodation of students in dormitories. I will remind you, respected MPs and MPs last June 21st here in this High Age you have brought one document to our proposal, and this document bears the name of the National Programme for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education, where we have confirmed the encouraging measures we have proposed, so the accommodation of students in student homes to fully pay for the state, the cross-border public transport for all relations between the place of residence and the place of school such as over 5 km in full salaries of the state and textbooks also obtains state. In that document, we made it clear, and we said it was being carried out gradually. This school year refers to first grade, and since autumn will be related to other developments and we will close this round very quickly. Furthermore, we are talking about spatial technical conditions in high school institutions and in the team that prepared these documents, of course, that they were experts in different profiles and all of what was said was actually a profession and we believe that they were also following the highest standards of course. Same when it comes to equipment. And there's something else that we've particularly stressed here. So we clearly said that in the future, people will be hired to work on information equipment maintenance jobs. It's something you need in this time. We're glad to be able to boast of that. Our schools, our high school institutions are well equipped with information equipment and the number of these units has grown so much that we need to have an expert who will take care of it, who will enter data into the e-matrix, who will enter data for everything the central system requires of them. So that's the news with which we're going and what time has come and, of course, that's what makes us happy. Here we are also talking about standardising the obligation of professional training of our teachers. We believe that this is extremely important to the team more than ever, which has been strongly affirmed throughout life's learning not only with us but also in a number of other countries, and in fact everyone who does their job must always build up their education, have to further educate in education and even more because they are those who teach children. Furthermore, here we have opened and licensed teachers and employees in education because we actually feel that it is necessary. We have devoted more space to working with the gifted, education of students in health institutions and in the house, so those who cannot attend classes and children of foreign citizens and this is arranged and will be governed by special regulations. The area of adult education as part of lifelong learning is also covered by this pedagogical standard in such a way as to determine the basic conditions of their education in high school institutions, and when it comes to that part, it is governed by a special law. The law on adult education, which you respected MPs and MPs passed here in the last term as well. Finally, I want to thank all of you who have helped in preparation, who have participated in this, I want to thank all of you who have submitted amendments so far that you want to make the most of the text of the proposed standards and to all of you who will submit amendments during this debate. Given that the vote will be next week, we will take a good look at these amendments and, of course, we will try to accept all the improvements in order to get to a better document because of the documents that are important for the education system in the Republic of Croatia and it would be good to bring in, in the maximum agreement, these documents that will bind all future governments after this, of course, which will be open to new settings for raising these standards so that we have a flexible system that will always respond to the demands of a new time and try to make all new progress from those technological ones and further embezzling in the document so that we have as high-quality education as possible. It's said I would have a demanding role in time and that's what we all want and what we've recently declared almost at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6998	That's nice. We have one correction to the previous exhibition, Mrs. Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u6999	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, actually, I want to be a well-intentioned Madam Secretary of State, so in good faith and intent it's a pedagogical standard. You used children with special needs a few times in terminology. Once again, I warn there are children with disabilities and children with special educational needs. So here you are please just for the sake of good text and for a little while more of that text to be reviewed because it seems to me that in this whole pedagogical standard in some places children with developmental difficulties, children with special needs, I think it's a little bit of even in this introductory presentation to keep an eye on it, just because of the perception of the public that in some ways we educate the public on terminology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7000	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur want a committee? Yeah. Representative of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7001	Mr. President, the secretary. Since the debate is united I will not read all the three reports you have on your parliamentary benches. I'm just going to give some information, and first of all, I'm going to find that this debate that was held on April 23rd was actually just a final debate. The Committee has discussed this subject on several occasions. After the first debate, some suggestions were sent to the applicants who generally accepted these suggestions and suggestions, so that this text that was found before us was better and more complete in any case. As regards the proposal for a national pedagogical standard of education, this is a clear set of normative and pre-school activities. We heard that the current documents were very, very outdated, over 25 years of age, and it was obvious that it was necessary to redefine the conditions necessary and which must be met so that kindergartens and other legal persons implementing pre-school education programmes could function well and quality. It is also important to identify the issues of preschool education and child education and age with special needs. It says "special needs," I read what it says, but you're probably right. Then, clearly, children with developmental difficulties, children of Croatian citizens abroad, and children of members of national minorities. Also defined are the especially working conditions of kindergartens with fewer children, as well as preschool programs organised outside kindergartens. In fact, the conditions for this one - year - old education of children are also being prepared in some way before entering school, meaning at the age of kindergartens. We still found some things that could sometimes be textual, sometimes substantively fixed. It was mainly minor interventions, and there are amendments proposed in a nice, harmonious debate between all committee members and proposings. As regards pre-school standards of primary education system, it was certainly necessary to lay down the conditions and criteria to be improved, to raise the current level of that education to European countries and clearly to meet the conditions for that degree of education to be equally accessible to children of primary school age. The number of class departments to be 20 is defined, but it is also determined that schools cannot have more than 32 classrooms. It decreases, as we have heard, the number of students in individual classrooms from 32 to 28. Also, new standards, children with special needs are allowed more appropriate conditions of education and they are rising, trying to raise to the level of conditions in European countries. The school network is also established, which will optimally address these issues and, clearly, also takes care of children all the time, so let's say, more talented children. There is a question of definition quite openly, but it says it also aims to provide a special view of those children who show certain specific qualities, which is clearly defined in this third proposal i.e. pedagogical standard of the secondary education system. Clearly, it is again that all students have the same conditions of work, perfection and advancement. There are conditions that must be met by all secondary schools, then questions related to students with special needs are regulated, then development, in particular the development of gifted students and ways of working with them, then a uniform system of secondary education for students of national minors in the Republic of Croatia and the establishment of criteria for the number of teachers and professional associates, and other co-workers in secondary schools. You know that lately there's been a lot of debate about the presence of psychologists, psychological help to students, therefore, and that's one element that's now trying to define. The criteria for the construction and reconstruction of new schools are then established, the criteria for basic mandatory equipment of secondary institutions and criteria for secondary school learning standards, textbooks, accommodation in dormitories, health care, etc. All this is done in fact in some three dimensions, minimal, optimal and maximum, and is particularly important for raising the student standard by establishing the right to education during the disease, which seems to me particularly significant, then accommodation in the dormitories and the right to free textbooks. Also, in this proposal, as well as in previous primary education, we have proposed permanent amendments. To me personally, clearly, there is also a graduation of the time of application of individual standards proposals. I'm sorry you couldn't cut that deadline for building a pool in schools. However, I say, they assure us of objective circumstances that we will not be able to achieve what we would like so quickly. All these three proposals of pedagogical standards on the board were accepted by six votes in favour and only two abstentions. Therefore, in the work and voting, there was, I think, a nice consensus and clearly, the Committee proposes that standards be accepted in addition to amendments submitted by the Committee and possibly, clearly, by other amendments to be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7002	Thank you. Does the other representative, the other working bodies want? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh and Mr. Zeljko Vincelj. They'll both talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7003	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I am pleased at the beginning of this discussion, although it will focus primarily on preschool standards, to say that standardisation, pedagogical standardisation in this area has long been particularly necessary and that it is good that the ministry has approached such responsible jobs and that it is good that it is open to all possible suggestions that could be obtained from the professional public and from us in the Croatian Parliament. As for the pre-school, or state pedagogical standard of pre-school education itself, it does indeed, replacing a whole series of outdated normatives offering solutions that were not even known to earlier documents, offers solutions that open up a space for the provision of pedagogical education programmes and children to national minorities and children of foreigners and children abroad. All of these, therefore, were steps that the previous normative and practical sides of the implementation of standards did not know, i.e. they did not foresee as a community obligation. However, when it comes to preschool education and education, everything could be said rather than something the government considers to be part of its obligations. In fact, as the standard is imagined, it's quite brave to go into setting up multiple wires in relation to the current state without actually being intended by the state through decentralisation of funds to deny virtually any kuna. It is not fair because the entire system of preschool education is practically in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government and many units of local self-government that are struggling with filling their budget virtually do not have the means to develop this activity. There's not a few of them. It seems to me somewhere that it is also mentioned here that there are more than a hundred of them. Although the data accompanying this proposal argues that the percentage of child coverage of some of the forms of pre-school education is extremely high and it reaches 90 and a certain percentage, it should be seen that in practice it really looks like in municipalities where there is no kindergarten and in which preschool is the only form that is offered to them in fact only form and in a much shorter hour than provided for in this teaching standard. It is also good to consider licensing people who are involved in educational and pedagogical and professional work. It seems to me that in this first proposal that you sent about preschool education, it was also explicit, in this second one it was omitted. I don't know why because licensing is something that should also be a very important element in this area or in this activity. But I will return to one detail that seems crucial to me and that is the question of the resources available to implement this proposed standard. It is said that funds spent by local and regional self-government units would practically grow only 10% annually in the last five years. But when you translate it into concrete figures, it's about 62% in the fifth year. So 62% should be the budget part for preschool education and education greater than it is at this time, and the proposer has already said to him that he has grown very high in recent years. This really means that many units of local self - government work hard to cover the activities of education and education and preschool education as much as possible. I'll tell you an example from my own town. In 2005, we found the situation that we have more than 200 children each year who really meet all the conditions required for entry into kindergartens without a place in kindergarten. Simply according to existing pedagogical standards, there was no room. Two hundred children are not small. In the last two and a half years, we have opened 380 new places by building, re-purpose, various tricks conditionally because we have not formally built any large new buildings but have put existing capacities in some other function in the functions of preschool children. We have the same situation today. Once again, we have 200 children who are not covered by kindergartens. This naturally proves that in my city the growth of children is very high and thank God that it is so, but we are now in a situation where we have to take on existing separations that have believed or not annually about 35 million kunas into drastic new investments in order to respect the application of this standard and this criterion, this criterion number one that says that the performance coefficient that is the size of kindergarten must be applied immediately in view of the number of educational groups. This means that at this time we must enter into reform of the existing system by establishing new institutions and this means by multiplying the administrative part and the administrative part of these institutions. It seems like we haven't had time to even get a new budget for next year, so let's see if it's possible to do that in 2009. It says right away. It seems to me that it's not good to set things up so ultimately, that the state is not ready to give any lip to implement this standard. Perhaps in the education of staff, perhaps in the education of those who work in kindergartens. That's not what I'm getting into. But this is about the technical standards that are part of these pedagogical standards because when you prescribe groups, their size, the number of you will automatically make a commitment to the founder of these new investment institutions. In other words, there is a conflict between Article 2. Let me just get back to these investments. How can we expect the founders of pre-school institutions to increase the budget by 60% for these purposes on average within five years and in reality many more units of local self-government when we now have inflation between 5.2 as recognised by the government and 6.5 as the independent observers say economically and when we have economic growth between 4 and 4.5%. This stagflation does not allow for an increase in budgetary resources, i.e. "ipso facto" increases all expenditures linearly. Where do you find this range of 60% of new funds in the next five years? Perhaps the state should consider decentralisation of part of the funds it has. Maybe it's easier in my town because it's relatively big. But what will be in relatively small municipalities where children also have the right to this form of pedagogical care or educational work. In fact, the coliseum that I have started is that Article 2(2) defines that the building of kindergarten is an object that can have up to ten educational groups. This is not in line with reality because we already have many buildings of kindergartens where you have fourteen and sixteen educational groups. What does that mean? That six large spaces, a educational group hall, would be empty or refurbished? I don't think that's right. But then we turn to article 21 that says that the children's kindergarten has an optimal majority of between 17 and 20 educational groups of regular programs or 340 and 400 children. What do we do now? Are we going to set up two facilities in one building just because one shouldn't have more than 10 groups? Or how to explain this discorepancy that the building can have 10 groups, and the kindergarten can be 17. Let's make a deal. Are we going to allow existing kindergartens to continue to live according to how the condition is found, and these are large kindergartens. And I'll tell you a concrete example. The village of Velika Mlaka and the village of Velika Polje are loved settlements, and they belong to two different units of local self-government. Our obligation, the City of Zagreb's obligation is to build a large, modern, generally sufficient and by all criteria a suitable kindergarten that will cover the needs of the children of these two settlements. He is already in the project task of 14 educational groups. What do we do? Should we build two kindergartens? Who's gonna give a new 25 million kuna for that investment? This existing one will cost more than 30. It's not that easy, and in that sense, I would like the proposer of this standard to bear in mind that there is a confounded state, because if we were to move into the implementation of this standard, then we would either increase investment in new buildings or 40% of children are excluded from pre-school education systems. It says here that part of the local self-government unit is already breaking regulations by receiving a nominal 20% higher than the standardized number in the groups. In reality, you know that a group that formally has 25 members never has 25 children every day because of this or that reason. It's always a sick child or someone else's, but it's about shape. So do we really think the cities didn't do it without an angry need? There's only two options. Or lower that number and send those kids home and make their parents desperate because they have nowhere to go with a child, and they have to go to work. Or do anything to accept as many children as possible. That's why cities went to increase these numbers of children in groups and we need to understand that it wasn't anyone's whim, but simply the existing opportunities in which it's trying to capture as many children as possible so that as many people as possible can go to work. So little in that technical sense, in terms of building standards, the number of educational groups would not be bad to bear in mind. I agree that there is a need to lower the number of children in educational groups, that there is a need to increase the number of professional staff. Everything's absolutely standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7004	Agent, there are less than six, seven minutes left. Only you can do it, but... Okay. Okay. Thank you. Here's Mr. Representative Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7005	Dear President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In this part of the debate, I will limit myself to the pedagogical standards of the primary education system. In the 21st century, people and knowledge become the most important resource, and education and training is one of the most important activities for the creation of society and economy. Therefore, the best interests of every country, and should be ours to focus their attention and finance on education from preschool to high. I must also express my satisfaction that the primary school will finally receive a pedagogical standard, the foundations on which the up-to-date of the existing system of primary education, something that has long been awaited in educational circles. But right at the beginning, it was a big disappointment. The adjustment period for suitable primary education is 15 years, a very long period. I remind you, two months ago, we approved a national railway infrastructure development programme for five years, 18 billion kuna, and for improving the level of pre-school, primary and secondary education systems to an appropriate European level. In 15 years, we're planning a dozen billion kunas. Once less money for twice as long, and we swear that school is our top priority. I consider it necessary to establish, in addition to the national pedagogical standard of the primary education system referred to in paragraph 2, that the deadline for the compliance of the primary education system with this pedagogical standard is 2015 and that, in accordance with this, the performance coefficients set out in paragraph 1. Otherwise, we will have a developed railway using which our children will go to study and work outside Croatia. Is that what we want? Of course not. Let's show it where and where the speed in change is stronger, because 2022 is certainly not five speeds of work. The Croatian People's Party Club believes that the National Pedagogical Standard of Primary Education and Education has many shortcomings to address before the final adoption of this document. We have consulted a lot of associations and professional institutions, starting with the fact that such an important document must pass a broad discussion of all interested and cannot be produced only in the cabinet of the resolution ministry. The impression remains that this document has been done by people who have not worked on the Croatian national educational standard, because it is as if everything that this standard has brought or at least tried to bring positive ones has been forgotten. This concerns, in particular, the issue of education of students with special needs, because such a document has far-reaching consequences and must be consistent with the current strategic and operational documents, as well as with trends that new documents bring. The problem of students with special needs, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, is covered by documents dating back to '91. until 2006. And during that time period, much has changed and the state pedagogical standard must have its starting point in recent documents and trends and be further in line with the latest expertise both in terminology and in the division of difficulties. Therefore, when it comes to the problem of students with special educational needs, the terminology of the Croatian national educational standard should be used because it uses the name of children with special educational needs instead of children with disabilities or children with disabilities, because the name used by the Croatian national educational standard is a lot of stitches, less classing and more appropriate in the field of education and education. The Croatian People's Party Club also has concrete proposals when it comes to certain parts of the standard, so we believe that in the section of the assessment of the status of the primary education system, the basic issues to be regulated by the pedagogical standard, and the consequences of its adoption, there are several important things to be incorporated into the final text of this document. And this data on the representation of students with developmental difficulties in total and by type of difficulty, data on professional evaluations of student representation with developmental difficulties, given that some parents still find it difficult to accept, and experts have relevant assessments. For example, on the representation of students with a disturbance of attention, an assessment of the consequences that will arise if students with developmental difficulties do not work properly, i.e. the benefits that will arise if the guidelines of the Croatian National Education Standard are successfully implemented through the State Pedagogical Standard. Based on the above mentioned above, when it comes to students with special needs, we feel that the existing indent 8 in Article 2 is the case. The national pedagogical standard should be divided into two new indents and the concepts of students with developmental difficulties and a gifted student should be defined. For the State pedagogical standard, namely, the rules of the welfare system are entirely irrelevant, and these rules are mentioned in that indent, however, the purpose and purpose of social care regulations and regulation of other relations, rather than in the education and education system. We also believe that a particular definition of attention disorder, hyperactivity and specific learning difficulties should be defined because they are disorders that are relatively higher than others, and the needs are specific. My time is running out, so I'm gonna skip a little bit. I'm going to the end. It is certainly necessary to refer to the necessary resources to be provided through the budget. In particular, Article 47 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides that the implementation of the pedagogical standard is to be provided in the budget. We believe that it would be necessary to specify exactly what part of the funding is provided in the state budget, which is left to local self-government units to invest in primary education according to their opportunities. The Croatian People's Party's Club believes that, for the sake of full reality in the dynamics of the implementation of certain segments of this document, one of the solutions would also be to prescribe a certain percentage of the amount of the national budget to be provided annually for the implementation of this important document. We think it's the only thing that would...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7006	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7007	... could be a guarantee of the realisation of these highly-set objectives, which, without such access, will be difficult to achieve within the envisaged deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7008	Thank you. We have one correction. Mrs. Vesna Škulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7009	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues from the HNS, they're doing education and public again and we're on the verge of standard. So if we're talking about students, it's enough to tell students with difficulties. That's when we said everything. And students with special educational needs can also be gifted students and students with learning problems. Also children with developmental difficulties, once again I pray, students with difficulties, children with developmental difficulties, students with special educational needs. Here you are from the ministry, please, and colleagues, just as we are talking about standards, let's also raise standards to a higher level of terminology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7010	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7011	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honourable promoters, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. I will unite all three standards in this debate on behalf of the HSS Club. Preschool education is achieved in accordance with the Preschool Education and Education Act, and on the basis of the State Pedagogue Standard, which brings the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia to the Government's proposal. The fact is that preschool education is still being conducted according to pedagogical standards that were passed back in 1983. I believe that most colleagues and colleagues, as well as I, paid special attention to this document, precisely because it was found on the assembly benches after so many years. That is certainly a good reason to approach with special attention the study of the proposal submitted to us. On behalf of the HSS Representatives Club, I support the proposal of the State Pedagogical Standard and I advocate its adoption, however, it is necessary to point out here possible difficulties which could be precisely related to the deadlines under which a certain standard is envisaged. I believe that all units of local self-government are cities and municipalities, which are founding children's kindergartens, will not be able to edit pre-school activities according to new standards with the same dynamics. Since I am also the head of a city that continuously invests in preschool activities, this is the town of Jastrebarsko, this activity in our city is largely in line with the proposal of the State Pedagogue Standard. I will also comment on my opinions, but I would also like to point out some other problems related to this activity, although they are not directly contained in this document, but they are important for the quality of the functioning of the system as a whole. At the very beginning of this document, more specifically in the assessment of the situation, it is said that new standards will increase the coverage of children. But the scope of children can be increased, true, and additional programmes, but primarily by increasing accommodation capacities, more specifically, by opening new institutions. It is wet to stress that at this point a large number of cities and municipalities are facing a problem of enrolling children in kindergartens because they do not have enough accommodation facilities. As regards the very criteria for the number of children in educational groups, the examples of these new criteria for the number of children in the educational groups foreseen over a period of 3 years from the adoption of the State Pedagogical Standard also require the immediate opening of new institutions. Because the criteria for the number of children are much smaller than those so far. For example. So far, a group of 16 and more children, now enrolls in 14, or a group of 25 children, or even more now registers 20 children. A concrete example of my city, a city in which I am also mayor, three years in a row, for the last three years we have enrolled all children in kindergarten, but for the consistent application of the proposed standard we need to provide new capacities for about 120 children over a period of 3 to 5 years, without increasing the coverage of these children, so we stay on the same number. The conclusion is that almost all local communities should immediately access planning and finding funds to open new institutions. Of course, the opening of new institutions also entails the financing of new jobs, educators, professional associates and other employees. How many of these institutions each individual local community needs, or how much material resources each individual community needs, is also dependent on investment in this activity so far. As far as the funding of the programme of provisions under this title is concerned, we have almost nothing new. We know that the cost of child accommodation in kindergartens is borne by the founder of the institution and parent whose child goes to kindergarten. The same is true of Article 48. Preschool education and education laws. It is also clear that urban and municipal administrations are precisely different from how much they invest or allocate funds for kindergartens and kindergartens, i.e. preschool children should not feel the very differences that occur on the ground. Large differences in economic prices and in kindergarten prices are also evident in the conditions of stay of children in kindergartens, since some are more recent equipment, more modern didactics, certain kindergartens have small halls or something similar to differences in working conditions for the workers themselves, are higher or lower salaries, higher or lower material rights and better professional training. Individual parents are placed in an unequal position because accommodation prices in kindergartens oscillate between 200 and 500 kunas related to the baby in the mangers and to the differences that are evident in whether it is the first or second child in the family. Although these same prices may also be a difference for programmes themselves, i.e. whether there are any additional programmes in preschool institutions themselves. I would also like to point out two other problems that are not directly contained in the proposal of the state pedagogical standard, but are the problem of preschool activity. Namely, in our educational vertical preschool study is not set up at university level, the breeders remain at the level of professional study and do not have the possibility of further education. Every single one of us who has insight into this activity no matter what time you look at it, it's enough for his child to go to kindergarten. He knows that kindergartens are not guardianships but educational institutions where higher education professionals should work. Furthermore, I think that the status of director should be regulated in this activity, because without a quality legal solution, it will be increasingly difficult to find enthusiasts who will be doing this responsible work professionally and in quality. Finally, I will say that I accept this proposal from the state pedagogical standard, aware that by adopting this proposal to local communities, we are establishing very responsible and not easy to carry out tasks in a relatively short period of time, and this should be taken into account in the adoption of the budget and the level of singleing out specifically to local self-government units, and most of all concerns those in rural areas. As for the primary school system and the proposed standard. Bringing the state pedagogical standard is an important step in improving the primary school system, education and education. The standard aims to raise the current level of primary education and education in the Republic of Croatia, ensure an even and equally accessible education system for its children and to bring the level of education in line with developed European countries. The standard includes new criteria that have so far been sufficiently clarified and not covered. Prior to the adoption of the standard proposal, an analysis of the existing situation was carried out as the starting point for determining the adaptation of the existing system to new criteria. The standard reduces the number of students in classrooms, which certainly contributes to the quality and better organisation of the teaching process as seen in Articles 8, 9 and 10, and elaborates on the inclusion of students with disabilities in Article 33 who have been involved in regular school so far, but the current system has not given sufficient attention to those students due to the large number of students in classrooms, spatial barriers, insufficient number of professional associates, the education of teachers to work with such children and the lack of special work space currently foreseen by this standard. Since the performance coefficient dictates the entry into force of this criterion immediately after the adoption of standards, the issue is the possibility of implementation in large schools where there is a problem, an objective problem of lack of space, but also the question of the staff of the educational profession. The article 32 discusses the training and training of gifted students to improve progress and provides for a program of work with such students and their encouragement. This is a significant advance in the educational system. Work with these students should be placed in the responsibility and norm of teachers, which must comply with the law and rules adopted under the law. The standard lays down criteria for teachers, professional associates, directors and other primary school staff. Article 12 to 15 provides for the number of professional partners in proportion to the number of students, health workers, as well as new workers as teaching assistants, sign language translators, computer maintenance experts, etc., which are necessary for the implementation of this standard, and contributes to the quality of school work and increasingly complex requirements of the educational process. The continued professional training of directors, teachers and professional associates set out in Article 18 becomes binding and enables greater training and education of educational staff to carry out their activities effectively and at the level of the country as a whole. Such training dictates the complexity and requirements of the profession, of course it is necessary to provide additional funding to schools intended for professional training of employees. The standard guarantees an important shift for the safety of students in school and school space. Articles 21, 22, and 23 of fenced school space in primary schools, criteria for primary schools, the introduction of an alarm system and video surveillance, but also greater security in the transport of pupils to school in Article 36. The criteria for space and equipment in the elementary school covered by articles 21 to 26 provide for a modern school that meets the needs of a modern European school and which can be preceded by its educational system among developed countries of Europe. The deadline for realization is in 2022, and we think that we should develop and raise standards in existing schools, meaning in schools that are operating today, first of all as regards hygiene conditions, equipment, school cuisine, hall equipment, etc. and try to move that same realization as soon as possible, not welcome 2022. The paper in the standard is an opportunity for the school to be open to educational work throughout the year. This enables teachers, students, professional associates, directors to design different activities, programs and projects. In this way, the school builds its identity in the local and regional communities, and for young generations it designs quality leisure time. Local communities should be heard for those activities and for financial and organisational assistance to schools in their midst. I can say that the town of Jastrebarsko, a city where I am mayor, organizes summer and winter summer playrooms every summer and winter, and that is very well accepted in both children and parents in a way that the city co-finances costs. We will support the proposal of the state pedagogical standard because it regulates the most important issues for the education system, but it opens up the possibility of regulating certain issues with specific regulations. The requirements of the standard are subject to amendments to the Charter of Fundamental Education and the adoption of the accompanying regulations. The standard also provides for the dynamics of implementation towards the performance coefficients and sources of funding. A significant number of articles of standard have a coefficient of 0 which means that they enter into force immediately after adoption. This will make a significant contribution if the implementation of the improvement and uniformity education process across the Republic of Croatia is realistically envisaged. However, we must also not forget the teacher as the most important participant and creator of the entire school work and his status if it is possible to raise it to the level required by such a significant and responsible activity in society. Furthermore, standards should be harmonised and implemented in old and long-term schools, and public private partnerships as one option may be possible. And in the end, it's tending to get to a school that works on one shift, and I hope we don't all wait until 2022 for that to happen. And finally in this debate and third standard. And this is the standard of a secondary education system aimed at ensuring equal development of secondary schools in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and achieving a certain level by the end of 2022. This would ensure uniform working conditions for all students and workers. This proposal aims to establish an optimal number of students in classrooms from 20 to 28 in order to allow quality teaching work, given that current schools are enrolling 30 and even up to 37 students per grade, which has a significant impact on the quality of work. This standard also reduces the number of students in the classroom, according to the number of integrated students with developmental difficulties. So one grade department can have up to 3 students with disabilities, and for each integrated student, the number in the classroom is reduced by 2 students. The student must be an active participant in the course, i.e. Two-way communication is required, so this proposal should certainly be supported. By defining a minimum number of 10 pupils in educational groups, unless otherwise specified under specific regulations, it is welcomed. An educational group within a class may also be formed for example because of learning different foreign languages. Some primary schools still maintain balance in learning different foreign languages. The problem arises when one, two, or several students who learn a foreign language other than English are enrolled in high school. The school should direct those students to education in other cities, and the adoption of specific regulations to regulate the organisation of teaching in these cases would allow students to receive education at the nearest school. Article 8(1) defines the number of persons employed to carry out joint operations where, with the Director, the Secretary, the Accountant and the administrator, we should be added to the person in charge of the register, the delivery of the euro. Post office, FINA, bank and supply of consumables. Article 8(3) is a newspaper that each school will hardly welcome because it allows the employment of experts to maintain the computer system of the school, enter official data, update websites and the like. The only problem is that there will be so many ITs, given the fact that there are not enough for class class class only. Article 10(1) is prescribed by one worker in the work of consignors and custodians in the shift or employment of a security company. Most of our schools don't have that kind of person. And the students are on duty at the entrance, which is totally inappropriate. So this article makes a significant contribution to the safety of the school and its students. In paragraph 2 of the same article, the employment of janitors, a shared school gym, is prescribed, but unfortunately the head of the hall is not. The workplace has been practically abolished, and the organisation of work in the hall is increasingly demanding, since the halls use school children up to 22 hours. School sports companies. In the meantime, it has proved inappropriate to worry about maintaining, establishing order and organisation of work led by school secretary and directors, and many new and valuable facilities, due to insufficient attention hastening and failing. It is widely known that schools today employ too few professional associates compared to the number of students and the growing need for educational work. This standard determines the employment of the same according to the number of students, i.e. to 180 students two professional associates, from 180 to 500 students 3 professional associates, and over 500 students 4 professional associates. This would make great progress in training with students, especially with students with developmental difficulties. The school must certainly move to work on one shift, as planned, only the question of whether it will be realistic given all the financial resources needed within 10 years given the great lack of space. So far, the school has not provided students except for their own wishes, which has proved insufficient. Article 17(3) defines that part as well. With this proposal, schools should provide students with an accident, but we believe that it is especially necessary to prescribe the insurance of students in workshops, perhaps for practical teaching and also for practical schooling outside of school. We're talking about things that are done in nature. The spatial and technical conditions of secondary schools covered by articles 19 to 42 were set to meet all the requirements of the school's plan and work programme, but in Article 27, the standards of closed sports training centres should define the standards of open spaces of school exercises. Article 36 provides for basic equipment that each school should have until 2022. The mandatory introduction of an alarm system and video surveillance is foreseen, which is necessary in view of the increasing number of conflicts and among the students and we know what kind of things are happening in the areas around the school. In addition, schools are equipped with valuable equipment and are not owned by protective systems. At the very end of the proposal for a national pedagogical standard are also listed the performance coefficients i.e. deadlines according to priorities. Article 36 relating to equipment at school level and Article 32 relating to hygienic technical conditions may also be given a higher priority than provided for in existing schools. A coefficient of 4 is foreseen which means achieving standards by that year means 2022, and for the basic working conditions of the existing schools, the deadline is possible and too far. This proposal does not mention the professional training of teacher staff for which the same standards should also be set with certain deadlines. This is an opportunity to mention perhaps a burning problem, and this is a lack of teaching staff, especially in the field of information, mathematics, physics, English language, and individual professional objects that can be covered exclusively by graduate engineers of engineering or electrical engineering. As far as schooling is concerned, this lack is possible and more important than anyone else. Because raising the material state of activity when we talk about objects and equipment itself, if there is no adequate separation for the performer of the educational process, we are afraid that it will not result in expected changes and improvements. Here, I thank you. The time of 20 minutes isn't up yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7012	Thank you. The HDSSB club and Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic and Vladimir Šišljagic are at work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7013	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary. I'll talk about standards, a proposal for pre-school education and education standards. What my predecessors said, especially my colleagues from the HNS, was in agreement with certain corrections in the proposal of the state pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education, but what I would especially like to highlight, and in some ways on the trail was what was the topic of the previous point, which is demographic poverty, the depopulation of Croatia, and accordingly, I have certain articles that I downloaded from the internet, and they say that Croatia will lose 360 thousand children right up to the period until which investment is foreseen under this standard proposal. Furthermore, I wanted to compare the number of children in Croatia who attend kindergartens and preschool classes, so it is about 270 thousand children. Exactly as many children as I say, 0 to 7 years is according to statistics and also the data I downloaded, there is also a Republic of Kosovo that is twice smaller, and more than twice compared to the Republic of Croatia. So that's what's negative, so the positive-turned tree of life that we have here, according to our specificities, unfortunately down below, to say thin, and at the age of 50 and over is constantly increasing. Why am I saying that? Because actually, pedagogical standards and money that will be set aside to achieve this, I'm convinced, is enough, and I'd like it not to be enough because we just have this depopulation, this constant reduction in the number of children. The secretary of state himself said that there are 48 thousand children in eight classes, and that in the last year of 2006, we have about 40,000, 41 thousand newborns. This means that at eight years of age, we've lost a thousand newborn children each year. And that trend, if this continues, will indeed be sufficient for the funds needed to meet the standards of preschool education, if not more. I'd ask myself why parents have to pay for the stay of our children in kindergartens in the first place. The units of local administrations and self-government and parents exclusively bear the costs of staying in kindergartens. Is it because employees have no place else or no one else to trust their child while they are at work? And being in kindergarten is considered a luxury. Besides, they say it's been like that forever, so why would it change? But why don't we pay for regular schooling where our kids are staying at school? What do schools have, and kindergartens don't have, so our schools are free? The fact that it's always been or here, for high schools recently, it doesn't satisfy us, and what's common, should be changed if there are better solutions. I think it takes quick and rooted needs here and in law, so if it needs to be in some constitutional provisions. At one time, kindergartens served exclusively for the care and entertainment of children, and since it is the natural duty of parents, society did not want to take the cost upon itself. In contemporary societies, as is now considered our Croatian, and in line with the latest scientific knowledge, organized education and education, education, starts from the earliest age. Thus, in kindergartens in recent years, a systematic educational programme is implemented suitable for children of certain age groups to get the basics of desirable behaviour in society and prepare for education, and this is no longer just a parent's interest, but also a society, i.e. a country as a whole. Why, then, only children whose parents can pay for it or are forced to pay for it in the early beginning of organized education, while the family in the weaker material situation would be deprived of it. Why not raise and educate kindergarten children under equal conditions? Your material here says that only 55% of children attend kindergarten. Only 55%. So, the 45% is, in some ways, I'm not going to say discriminatory, but they're disabled in some way. So why not educate all children under the same conditions when we have provided children of older age? Do all our children have the same right to education and education regardless of age and family material opportunities? There's only one answer to that question, and that's: they do. And here, as representatives of the citizens who elected us, we have to think about it and we have to think of something. So I invite you all together to do what we can to eliminate this injustice as a society and to give our children equal care and opportunity for progress. Let us change the practice that has become bad and allow children whose parents cannot pay for their stay in kindergarten, as well as those who set out for it up to a quarter of their income, such as. in Slavonski Brod, where, according to the scale 700 kuna, the largest, therefore, range for children to go to kindergarten, that in kindergarten, therefore, children stay free of charge. This burden should be accepted by all, as a society, as a state, as a Republic of Croatia, and become a part of the modern world. When I say this, then I must point out that in France this system, therefore, public kindergartens, or as the French say... They've been free since the Paris Commune in 1880. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Luxembourg, free kindergartens have been mandatory since the 4th year of life. In some countries, Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, Luxembourg, Canada kindergartens work all year round. In most countries, kindergarten costs are recognised as tax relief. There is, therefore, such a system, for example in Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, the United States of America, Great Britain, Belgium, etc. In most of the countries in families with two or three children in kindergarten, up to 50% of the cost is paid when attending. Why is that necessary? Why am I saying that? Well, because it's our country that has a terrible negative natural growth or not to say loss in the population, a reduction in the number of children. And here I'm saying, this kind of analysis that has been confirmed by the Faculty of Natural History, from the Institute of Migration, shows that we're going to "lose" 360 thousand children or two Splits in 15 years. So that it does not become so and that in some way we force or try to force the parents of the children to think more about this child that is so much needed by this country, that is why we should consider it. I'm not saying it can be broken over the knee to break this age group, so preschool is just solved materially in this way by many of Europe and the world's polite countries. When I talk about material facts, then I have to say that the state singles out 0.03% for pre-school education of the state budget. At the same time, the losses from the shipyard are covered, there is no telling where the "money" of Rijeka Bank, Brodosplit and more, here we see the huge BMWs, Audie, the defenders of various appointments, committees, etc., we increase the administration for kindergartens, for our future, for our children we have no money. We do. We just need to use them for the right reasons. And that's our future. Our children are our future. Our kids who are going to get a job tomorrow will be filling pension funds. How we're gonna take pensions if we don't have kids to work. So, only by increasing the share by 33 times in the state budget from 0.03 to 0.1% will we have in cooperation and with the participation of local communities of free kindergartens, free kindergartens throughout Croatia. Is that so hard for us to do? Is it so difficult to make such a decision? What would happen to that? Therefore, the cost of a family with small children would be reduced, making it easier to make a decision to increase the number of children in the family, in family planning. This will increase the country's birth rate. I'm not saying it's the only measure but one of the measures. There will be an increase in the number of children in kindergartens and more children will begin with the socialisation process during the most significant period. Parents will be spared formalities regarding proof of income or proof of place of residence. In Slavonski Brod, people from Andrijac are logged in, so they report a residence so that they can attend kindergarten in Slavonski Brod, which is 20 kilometers away because there are no kindergartens in Andrijevci. And he falsely depicts in the town of Slavonski Brod so that he could attend kindergarten in Slavonski Brod because otherwise he has no right unless he is a resident of Slavonski Brod. That's what's happening in the field. Therefore, parents would spare such formalities regarding proof of income or place of residence. It will allow for employment and for mothers if the children are in kindergarten, and we know that according to the law we discussed here, P.Z.E. No. 21 found that 220 thousand women work in chains of stores from 8 to 18. They're mostly mothers, most of them have to put the kids in kindergarten. So it would clearly help them. Then we could work and we wouldn't have to stay home with the kids. We would eventually free the grandmother service which is a forceful opportunity in a large number here in Croatia. Besides, there'd be an earlier socialization.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7014	Another colleague, seven minutes for your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7015	Here, I've mostly said, and with this, if we were to do it clearly to achieve even greater employment in kindergartens, a large number to say so in short so that I don't insult anyone's aunt would get a job and say about 13,000 would open new jobs. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7016	Thank you. Mr. Shislagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7017	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, distinguished MPs and MPs. So we're all aware of that, in fact, that these are state standards, so they should have been much earlier. But well, it's never too late, we finally got them and they were certainly involved in the design by experts, professional people, for a long time it's been spent on both, and on the third standard, and I don't doubt that this actually gave everything we're trying to do, what we want in preschool, both in primary school and high school education. Given the shortness of time, allow me only some remarks regarding the teaching standard of primary education and education systems. Of course, I have no doubt that the others will make suggestions so I don't happen to repeat myself. Therefore, Article 7 states that students in difficulty in performing classes outside the school space need to be provided with an escort and, let us recall, there is also a need to provide groups of up to 14 students. But for one student with visual, hearing, motor damage, autism, then for students of reduced intellectual abilities in a group of up to five students, etc. I would like to say that this is difficult to achieve and actually implement in the work, given that this particular article refers to the application immediately. So the moment we adopt this standard, then we expect that in schools and spend what we wrote, there will be no dead letter left on paper. I'm afraid, given the opportunity available, that this will remain a dead letter on paper, so here's the thing, when documents like this are being brought in, there are measures to be taken to ensure that in this situation where schools work, primary schools of human beings can't do this. Therefore, there is no need to write something that can't be done. It will also be difficult to spend, though easier, that tomorrow or in 7 days when we bring this pedagogical standard that all our classes have up to 28 students. That's possible, but then we'll separate classes. Of course, where possible, because primary schools don't have enough space and the problem is with space. Furthermore, professional associates, we return to the staff problem needed for primary school education work are educators, psychologists, education-rehabilitation profile expert, health care worker. At this point in time since the adoption of this Regulation and standards, these schools have been unable to ensure, because, unfortunately, basic school salaries, i.e. the education system, are as small as they are. This Regulation shall enter I think if a primary school as a school, as an institution meets the legal requirements of being a primary school, then that primary school should have a secretary and should have a worker who performs financial and accounting jobs employed permanently and for full-time. So we can't say, at least that's what I think, that a primary school that has more than 16 grade departments hires a secretary and a financier, or an accountant. If by law we have allowed one institution to become an institution, then it should be a primary school, then let us give that elementary school what belongs to it. So, the secretary and the financier, or the accountant. So it's not a lot of remarks on my part. However, I would like to warn you of the fact that the funds that have been allocated in these 15 years are for something that we all call upon. Our children are our greatest treasure. Well, these are the children of preschool, primary school and secondary education. These are our children, for which in 15 years we're out 10 billion, only 10 billion kuna or about 10 billion kuna. On what terms? I'll tell you what, we're trying to get on with a shift. There is not a single school in the city of Osijek that works in one shift. Maybe you won't agree with me right away. It's about classes that work on one shift. So there are only five primary schools out of 20 whose two classes go first and second in one shift. 14 of them are in two shifts, and even one elementary school, no Mr. Skora, unfortunately in Višnjevac, even works in three shifts. Now we wait that there are no four in Osijek, but you have in the territory of the Republic of Croatia even in four shifts. So should we wait 15 years, among other things and standards in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, to work in one shift. So, I think he's too modest, not as far as content is concerned. Content, standards, so I'd say between very good and excellent, but the length of implementation of these standards for 15 years. I think that this is a very, very modest ambition, that it is inadmissible and that, in fact, as far as both the second and third pedagogical standards of the state are concerned, it must be possible to finance everything that should have been invested in preschool, school and high school education in the past few years, and indeed, two thousand people have said fifteen years should really be the end year to meet these standards that we have set ourselves, otherwise this will remain a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7018	Thank you. I would like to inform you that Article 207 is in accordance with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure expired time to register from 10 minutes to 13.36. I'd like something else if we could make a deal. We've got four more clubs. That's 80 minutes or so. We have 28 reported individually. I suggest we not interrupt the debate, but finish at least the clubs, and then we continue on Tuesday. The Secretary of State Mr Janjic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7019	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me say very briefly the clarity works so that perhaps not all listeners understand differently. Namely, when we talk about preschool institutions, the founders of preschool institutions are units of local self-government or natural or legal person. In 2001, when the decentralisation process began at various levels, and so on in education, such a law was passed and everything went to local self-government when it came to that part. So the founders pay all the costs, both the employees, and the material costs, and the parents for the one-month-old child's stay in kindergarten actually only participate in that price with the amounts you mentioned here. The economic cost of a one-month-old child's stay in kindergarten is actually incomparably higher. It moves about the size of about 2,000 kuna. So our local communities are funding a very large part of it, and this is actually just participation. You said very nicely that our goal is indeed, and we are sure that all the founders of preschool institutions have that in mind. Our goal is to make it as much as possible to include children in preschool education in order to better prepare for the entry into the school system and this 54% and some percent of what we have at this point, of course, that we are not satisfied with it, and you said greatly that we would like to raise that percentage and make it comprehensive, that there are no children who are not in our preschool institutions. Then we will have assumptions for the uniform entry into the school system and safer quality education, and that first year are indeed the most important. And therefore, Your Honor, when you spoke on behalf of the HDSSB Club, you very nicely invited the public to insist on not doing so and to be better placed, because it is precisely in those first years of life that actually happens to the greatest knowledge of our future students who will enter our school system. The state, of course, only finances one small part, one small part as you mentioned, but believe that where there is state property in the form of individual buildings, if local communities ask for donations, there are such cases and of course it is one way that they can expect state aid. Some kind of return, or change of that law in terms of centralization, I'm not sure we'd be very welcome. So, we have what we have, according to the 2001 law. Furthermore, I would also like to mention when it comes to moving to work in one shift. This is where we said the final year is 2022. We are confident that this will be realized much earlier. I will remind you that a number of projects began a long time ago, and let me just remind you, since 2000, that the Central European Bank with its loan has contributed to starting the construction of individual facilities and then, for example, in CEB 5, it is planned to build or adapt 144 school facilities. 144. After that, we launched new loans, as the State Secretary, Mrs Vican, said, it is the European Investment Bank's loan and it is the World Bank's loan. And here we have a large number of projects so that the conclusion of these projects will build a large number of space, and we have already announced that during this year we will start talking about another loan and we believe that long before that 2022 we will be able to talk about one shift, and when we put frames here, then we were flexible enough and we just said that we want to end that story of 3 or 4 shifts and we said there shouldn't be more than 2 shifts. And believe me, that's going to happen pretty fast and real. So if you will, when you mention the city of Osijek, you are well aware that we are also funding several school facilities in Osijek-Baranja County from the World Bank loan. This process is being initiated, this process is going, and I think that in many cases, not only is it projected, but if the commissions were appointed, the works would have started somewhere, and it's certainly not going to last that long. So the many plans that have been drawn here and certain framework years can be anywhere and where previously realised, even in your case that you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7020	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7021	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm glad you're like this, and I'm confident and honest, but we're also so decoratively agreeable to this debate. However, we talked about the fact that units of local administrations and self-government have passed on to them the responsibility of parents. I'm talking about this part that belongs to parents. That's the part I was talking about. That part could be jumped by state intervention. The years c'est moi, is you. But the 2002 law, and that's what I was talking about, I said that root changes are needed, and in law, if there are constitutional clauses, that this part is really what it is in the French model, that would be the happiest, since two and a half years of free kindergarten. In accordance with the agreement of the local administration and the area of self-government and state. Here, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7022	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7023	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, allow a few words on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club on the State Pedagogue Standard, from kindergarten to high school. I can only say, finally because so far there were a lot of governments who were trying to bring a pedagogical standard, and the government run by HDZ and Dr Ivo Sanader had the strength to bring it and it's on the benches and I believe it's good for Croatian society and the state because after the 1983 thing, it's finally time to get one frame. I believe, and also on the board we've had a big debate, there may be some difficulties, there may be some more ambiguities, but those when they're read deeply, they're completely clear and in a long time, those most difficult tasks like building sports halls will be completed, and this, as you can see, much, much faster. The state pedagogical standard brings new standards, so to speak, to compulsory education. And compulsory education is also the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader recognized as what is mandatory for Croatian students until the age of 18. This is one newspaper used by some European Union countries, but today it is a fact that a large European gain in education that is not unique is an extension of compulsory education in order for children to come to the first profession. The fact is that this means this in Croatia, and this standard clearly shows that since the 6th month of the child's life, he has the possibility to use manger services and kindergartens, and from 3rd to 6th year in Croatia there are almost 55,000 and 55% of children included such programs, and in practice he knew 145 thousand 800 children were covered in Croatia. I just want to say a few words here to see what the scope is that we're talking about. Thus, preschool education and education have affected 146 thousand children, and it employs about 13 thousand 500 people. The primary school system is a system in which it attends 380 thousand 942 and around 40,000 people this year. And the secondary school she attends, and the secretary of state already said that, about 188 thousand children, and over 21,000 people were employed. That's over 75% of professional staff. You can think about what we're talking about. And the government's decision is more important because it is trying to put the whole system in that sublime goal that European societies, we have in Croatia about equal terms, opportunities for all children. It is not necessary to speak about how Croatia and what has lived up to its independence and this force it draws from itself because it can only grow from itself, so I am convinced this State Pedagogical Standard gives greater chances and I would say, I believe that everyone will agree, in some way, round our contribution to the development of modern Croatian schooling, which in large part receives European forms but in a Croatian way because there is no single European educational system and I keep it important and I believe that even the greatest critics will not be able to take away that power and that responsibility of the State pedagogue standard, so more so if we know what has been done on the curriculal changes through the Croatian National Educational Standard in elementary schools and everything else that is done in the design of the entire system. I want to say one more thing here, that by studying European education systems I will present a small interesting case of the Republic of San Marino which is in one great Italian sea that island. Look, among the 60 million Italians to expect is that they will always find a model to survive. But how's little San Marino doing? You see what they're most strengthening in their system. They strengthen the education and education of their children from age 3 to 6 and from age 15 to 18. So those who are numerically small are trying to save themselves. That is what I think is a lesson for other peoples, and unfortunately, we Croatians do not have that much in Croatia. There are just as many of us out there and that's one reason we try to save ourselves and ourselves, which is if we have a strong education and I find the elements there that this extension of compulsory education to 18 years this standard that balances these conditions at all those levels we've been saying is a new strength and a new quality that we have in education. Of course, I've heard some critical references like this, that really the standard is running some new solutions that aren't yet legalized. That's right. So this whole system, I said what numbers it is, how big a system it is, so it's happening all the way into walking, and it has one big communication between the central state, let's say it's a unit of local administration and self-government, which is logical, something at the level of decentralisation but it needs more in that joint cooperation. But it requires one new consciousness, one new responsibility, because otherwise it's hard to even up and realize in practice that we all want for the quality of our education, let's say it's compulsory education, that means by 18 years. I now want to say a little bit in my debate what this specifically refers to, what these standards are talking about, so I will try to show a little bit, though we have so far and heard that the criteria most define the number of classrooms in elementary school but also in high school, are in a particular school so that these are the topics that create some ideal conditions. Of course, ideal conditions need to be pursued, but they need to be adapted. So, the standard is a chance for those measurements to be framed. Also, criteria for the number of students in classrooms. As Secretary of State, I can tell you that there was no meeting where there was no debate. Our outdated rules said that about 32 students who really come out of every box could be the number of students. Some went over that number and there are examples that it was much below that number. But now we've moved significantly from that point and we're creating more suitable conditions, but these more appropriate conditions are unfortunately costing, but we've seen that what costs is actually a chance for all of us and for that growth and for ourselves. Here is the word standard for teachers, professional associates, directors and other workers, from kindergarten to high school. There are criteria for professional training, which is a very important dimension. After all, it has been embedded in our entire life, in our entire work and on this vertical or on this width of education lifelong learning is something that can not be avoided by either one of us so that even after the completion of compulsory school remains open after university or university studies or immediately going to the labour market. This lifelong training is also expected to be competitive on the market. Here in these standards are also the criteria for the financial conditions of work, also the criteria for special needs where we have heard a lot about it today. Indeed, special education needs can be both up and down, what Mrs Škulić tried to say because Croatia also deals with gifted children who have special needs both in kindergarten and elementary school, so that it is expressed here. Certainly measured student standards, there is the transport of students, the nutrition of students, the teaching standard, etc. I'm here, listening to my colleagues' debates, so I don't want to repeat any dimensions, and I'm glad we have a very unique view of these standards. But here I want to say something when it comes to preschool age, or a proposal from the State Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education. It should also be pointed out that the adoption of this document will achieve the only remaining obligation to regulate the activities of Article 22 of the Law, so we are talking about preschool age, construction criteria, equipment, radioactive means and aids which can be made and brought only after the adoption of this standard, which says that the system is already well-formed but that another dimension was missing. But I didn't read just for this reason and what's going to be improved, but also for the next time when it comes to preschool education. Furthermore, the adoption of this State Standard will contribute to the implementation of measures from national population policy, the National Plan for the Rights and Interest of Children from 2006 to 2012, areas of education and education, the role of families in raising and raising children, children members of national minorities, children with special needs and the National Strategy for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015. Why did I mention this? Because I saw that the debates today were so focused and it points to this very connection, to this integration with all the other segments, and it's a good thing that it has respected the State Pedagogue Standard, and here I find a new power. Let me also, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, present a few more information on the proposal of the state pedagogical standard of the primary school system and of the secondary school system, where they are very similar because there is a series of standards for the work of schools from the network of primary school institutions and secondary schools, the size of schools with difficult working conditions, the criteria for the organisation and implementation of educational work, the criteria for training of children with disabilities, the criteria for the education of potentially gifted children, the criteria for schools of students of national minorities, the criteria for the education of Croatian children abroad, the criteria for workers in the system of primary education and education, the measurements of the student standard, etc. But here I'd try to do it a little bit through the figures, get a picture of what it's about and how it's specifically supported and what the standard actually brings. For example, the standards are set in development and with the performance coefficients in the time range from 2008 to, say, reducing the number of students in the class until 2022. That's the range. But let's not forget that today in Croatia we have 871 elementary schools and another one that educates adults. But I don't know if you're familiar with the following data. Up to 100 students are in 70 primary schools. So we have 70 elementary schools of those 871 that have up to 100 students that's 8%. Ideal elementary schools where between 200 and 400 students have 29% or 249 schools, 400 to 1,000 students have 366 in Croatia which is 42% and between 1,000 to cca thousand and 600, there is even one in Pazin in Istria and 700 has 5%. Why am I bringing this up? Because this particular pedagogical standard should balance this out in one normal period of time. It's not an easy task. We have to deal with it, it needs to be regained, but for the purposes of those goals that we said education meant to us. I also want to say that we have schools with special status, like island schools there are 5%, schools with difficult working conditions have 4% and schools in the field of special state care have 12%. This should also be appreciated, these are some specificities that must have been subdued through the entire system and what is important and therefore all those skeptics who think we can't achieve these goals and what the ministry has done so far. Here's an example. When we were five years ago when the Croatian Democratic Community took responsibility for this ministry and this sector, there were as much as 7% of schools in three shifts. And you know how many there are today? Three and a half. This includes Zagreb, which should be praised for having 23 schools in three shifts five years ago, and now there are just over 10. It's big turns, but it's good for everyone, because education goes into every house and it's a new consciousness that's really saying that we can end these projects. I would also like to say that most schools in three shifts in both Split-Dalmatia County and the City of Zagreb. That's the facts. Then the largest number of schools that work in one shift imagine where, in Istria County, as much as 67% and the Primorje-Gorski County, as much as 60%. They're very mobile in that, and I must also say, I know these areas well, that some problems have already been solved. I would also like to say that by 2000 Croatia has a goal to abolish three shifts according to these standards. It's a real goal and we'll make it happen. By 2018, two shifts in primary school would have been lifted. Let's say in high school a slightly different situation because of specificity, but I don't have time to explain it now, but let's say the work of high school shifts, one shift works 24% of schools, and in two shifts, 76%. By 2012 to suspend school work on shifts. So it's the same goal that sets itself a high school system. Also the size of the school, there was a constant debate about it. Ideal school, basic school according to the state pedagogical standard is a school attended by 400 students and the number of students in class 20. It's an ideal one, and this standard still sets these goals a little bit more flexible so that it reduces the number of students, so it's going to be the upper limit of 28, and the bottom one is 12 and 14. Most schools according to the number of high school students, the optimal size of schools is between 400 and 500 students considered the standard, and the number of students in classrooms optimally 24, maximum 28, today is over 30 and we know our occasions. Primary schools around the hall are kind of the most interesting and whenever we're on the ground, you always bring at least ideas about three new or four halls. Halls, today primary schools have 41% of primary schools have their own hall, excuse me for having their own hall 41%. So by 2022, all schools are planned to have their own halls. It's pretty far away, but maybe it's financially so real because it's expensive investment. High school about 413 secondary schools, even 350 or has a school hall or has it on use. 15% doesn't have their own hall, there's a much better situation. With regard to professional training, this is a very complex topic and when we were working on changes in education through the Croatian national educational standard, then the success of this project was just part of the course, in the professional training of not only teachers but professional associates and directors and I would say all the subjects in education. Because please, it is not possible to do such great, demanding tasks if we do not have a common educational growth. What does that mean? This means that these standards are for all good, and educational growth that those who are involved in education in the municipality so that they can make common progress to the university, to agencies, to not know the experts, to the institute, because if we don't understand where we're making moves then there's blind streets and there's what's pulling back. The Croatian national educational standard has shown that it can do it. I also see it's starting to shine, I just want a few more data. So especially here given that we have recently gone to compulsory high school, there is then now every year there is a realisation of transport, that is, those obligations imposed by such a national programme, and there is, of course, equipment with modern equipment and didactic material until 2017, thought that all primary schools can be equipped, and secondary schools somewhat faster. And here I would say that this is a program that says that some new jobs are introduced to, say, primary schools, so we have some titles of employees and associates, such as sign language translator, Roma assistant, teaching assistant, swimming training escort, mobile teams of polyvalent experts for children with disabilities, for small schools, etc. and new employees and high school associates are heads of technical centres, leaders of adult education and professional associates. And maybe one sentence. Education is an open book so standards must be open and it is difficult to draw an educated person today in 2022. That might be impossible for any of us, but then that openness allows for further upgrades. And I want to say, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7024	Ex-Catedra Lux. Correction of the incorrect quote, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7025	In his discussion, he presented several incorrect allegations. I'll fix three. So, counterpart Šetic said standards determine the progress of teachers and professional associates. You have exactly 13 words of procedure, ways and conditions of advancement of teaching professions by the minister responsible for education on the progress of teachers and professional associates in the standard. It is a little pretentious to claim that standardized advances by teachers and associates are being established. Secondly, he said this super government under Dr. Eve Sanader was the only one who had the strength and would extend the duration of compulsory education. It is simply not true, compulsory education in Croatia still lasts only 8 years, regardless of what everyone around us is saying that we have the intensities to extend it, but we haven't extended it yet. You know that very well. And thirdly, you said that the big progress in these standard ones is that the number of students decreases from 32 elementary schools to 28 at this standard proposal. I won't even say as an educator that the difference between 32 and 28, means four students is small, but the problem is that the standard is as stretchable as a cowboy, it allows optimal 24 minimum 20, maximum 28, and that's a big and big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7026	SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7027	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to put a few views here that we have on this matter. Before that, I would like to say something that has already been mentioned here that we have had a previous discussion on committees and, if I may say so even informally and I would like to say, to point out that it is driven into a desirable atmosphere and I am counting on this story to also be discussed in the application of the amendment or in respect of the amendments also to be in some kind or in any kind, to say such a desirable atmosphere. I'll take these views that I mentioned in a few of the following points, statements, whatever you want. First, this is about important documents that, I think we should support and we as a club will support it and because this is about important matter, simply an important area, but also because the proposed documents deserve to be taken away, with these or those remarks or suggestions deserve such support. The reasons why we have such an attitude could be expressed in the next few things. First, it is a matter of equating working conditions and teaching in education and education, which is a multi-annual pursuit. I think it's both a multi-annual and a social drive and a year-long need simply so that, among other things, all segments in that area are put in the same position as possible. On the other hand, such binding criteria are established, which then require society to create roughly equal conditions everywhere regardless of what conditions of life and material opportunities are in the local environment. It is also for those who are conditionally disabled, materially above all gain. The next thing you can say is the adoption of these standards on the one hand is justice, and on the other hand, on the short and on the long track is socially useful and should not be given up. We are fully aware that this is a long-term business, it's a job that costs a lot of money in one way or another, and I can do this kind of calculations, but I think by accepting this standard and by having one debate that we have here today that supports it, I would say without the essential reserves, it shows that the material calculations of these objectives that are set up here cannot be questioned. I hope that's not the case. The other thing I want to say here is that today we're talking about the standard, we're talking about three documents in different degrees of education and education. But I don't think it should be forgotten, that it's very important not to forget, that when we talk about the pedagogical standard that we're talking about within or that we're talking about a set of other important elements and circumstances with which it is necessarily connected or with which it has to be necessarily connected. So one is a pedagogical standard as could be said to be optimally equal terms, shortened by saying. The other thing that happens here is that I'm deliberately saying it because I think it's meant to be connected on purpose. It is an educational standard, therefore, that establishes an educational programme and what the educational programme requires to be implemented through teaching. The third thing that appears here as an important element is a matter of profession. The question of the profession through competence and through the responsibility of those who work in the education system or those who answer for that system throughout the verticals, from porters to ministers. And the fourth thing that's important here, which is within that range and under these circumstances, is narrow or wider social support, narrow or broad environment of these issues, this task in this system. I listed this because I think it must be looked at so completely because when we adopt a pedagogical standard, then, in itself, without these elements, without strengthening responsibility by verticals, it will not be possible to be realised in the way it is necessary, how it should be, how it is useful and how it is just. One more thing is that it's important, or it could be that first of all it's important. A little while ago it was said here, when it was summed up, there were several hundred thousand children, people in the system. And this is about an area that is extremely sensitive, first of all, when children are involved and that is why this thing, I say, must be spoken through all these elements and must first of all strengthen responsibility through all these elements and raise the overall social responsibility of all of us in relation to the objectives that we are setting up or giving to that system. The third thing that I need to say here is, it's some specifics that I set out in two points, let's say. There are some environments in Croatia that because of their material possibilities or inability or due to some other circumstances, I can't say that they are disabled, but compared to the average and those who have developed and strayed from something more, they are in a kind of handicapped or unequal position. This is about the difficult conditions of life and work, it's about population devastation, social and economic, it's about a large number of people who exist on social aid, and I'm very particular about it because it's usually less pedagogical support for children, and in fact, given the circumstances, it would have to be bigger. And now there's something that, of course, I don't want to speculate. These are areas that have more children, these are families that very often with children, as a number, calculate in the form of a headtain, how much money will be paid for it for the family to have income, to survive on social assistance as long as possible. And when you simplify that thing and there's no sensitivity to that kind of behavior, then, first of all, it affects children no matter what age they are. I, of course, know that it can't be solved by symmetric, wing or any other criteria of pedagogical standard, but I am pointing to this in order for the whole vertical and education, those who, according to this vertical, take account of it, to pay attention to this kind of specificity because it is very active in many environments and represents an educational and social danger, with consequences that are not negligible. Another thing that I point out here as a specificity, is this treatment in these standards, the treatment of members of minority communities. I am not unhappy with what it says in the proposal of these pedagogical standards, regardless of what I think some amendments we have proposed deserve to be respected simply because it would be good that, however, you have children and families that have, say, minority characteristics and greater difficulties on other grounds. Likewise, members of minority communities have constant difficulties with their very fact of belonging. And it would be good to make sure that some concessions are made in the pedagogical standards, so that these amendments, which I mentioned, are respected at least something more expensive, and it doesn't cost anything special. And I'm going to say one more thing, I'm actually going to say one illustration that is a little understated, but I actually have no intention of being maligned. When we talk about these environments with a population of pedagogical depravity, and when I say that in these areas we need greater sensitivity and increased responsibility, I mean, let's say, the next example. I know the principal of the elementary school who at his official job and in doing his official role, speaks the language as from his avalanche. It's, I guess, a lonely example. But such lonely examples in an area that is very sensitive must, in my opinion, be seen and corrected. And the fourth thing I want to mention here is this issue of amendments proposed and I'm with my colleague, Rad's co-signator of one of those amendments. It's also supported by a minority club, and I know there are other amendments. And I urge these amendments to be incorporated into this proposal for a document, even in a slightly altered form, but to achieve this "favourable relationship", this is about minority communities. It is likely in some other amendments that there is something else, but that there is, therefore, sensitivity, since this proposal for a pedagogical standard is open on both content and deadlines. Then I think that openness should be shown even when it comes to these amendments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7028	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7029	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We have already heard here today in the discussion that pedagogical standards determine every kind of conditions in which teaching takes place, i.e. the educational process. In an understandable dictionary, in an ideal situation of full implementation of pedagogical standards, however they may be, they should ensure that all children in Croatia are educated in equal conditions, i.e. to avoid differences that are sometimes dramatic. We have classes where there are 15 children, as well as those where one follow-up works with them 40. Some schools are well equipped. There are all the wonders of new technologies in their classrooms, while in Croatia there are schools where photocopying materials or obtaining didactics is science fiction. New trends, as well as demands, are going towards seeking external evaluation in education, which is an important part of the state's graduation, which is just these days being mired in the unhappiness of the people of the ministry and the competent agency. We can't, colleagues and colleagues, look for external evaluations and test them all with the same instruments at the end of school if we haven't provided children with the same start and the same conditions of schooling. We of the SDP warned about this when the national prom rules were passed, and just then we demanded that pedagogical standards be finally passed. And now finally, even though we were told a few years ago that it would be within 6 months with a few years of delay and after 15 years in Croatia we have had various variations of pedagogical standards here today and we are discussing them. We in the SDP really see these standards as one of the key documents for Croatian education, and in this sense we expected a lot from the concrete proposals of these pedagogical standards. However, despite the fact that the home education committee returned the original proposals to the ministry's teaching standards for repair, they did not experience the necessary and necessary changes. There are several major problems with these pedagogical standards. The first class of problems are issues of concept nature. Namely, colleagues and colleagues of the standards as it seems to me and Mrs Vican, in the opening presentation, they must, in their nature, come from the Law on Fundamental, or secondary education, or preschool education on the one hand, or from the curriculum and programmes, or national curricula on the other. In that sense, it is deeply functional documents. And there's this first mess that's otherwise quite common for the Ministry of Education. New laws as well as national curricula are announced for adoption this year, and we bring standards here before these documents. Although, these standards define, among other things, the spatial conditions of teaching. It doesn't matter what kind of methodology I'm going to say to prescribe a new national curricula, because it's directly dependent on school regulations if we want to do things the way the waist prescribes it. Other types of major problems are the problems of a natural nature. The standards, as we see them in the SDP, should be minimum prescribed. On the contrary, the concrete proposals for the standards we are discussing here today are abundant in misunderstandings and ambiguities. Everything's full of formulations like I quote from basic school standards. The optimal number of students in the class section is 20 at least 14, the highest 28 students. What does that so-called so-called co-worker and co-worker tell us? Standard? Whether it determines uniform conditions or still allows for major differences. The answer is obvious, and it reads not only the substanceless misunderstanding of being a pedagogical standard but also the inadequacy and indecision of really ensuring their children the same conditions in Croatia. Because according to these standards, and there are as many examples as you like in these three texts, we can see that there will still be class departments in which the teacher works with 14, as well as those in which the teacher works with 28 students. There are a lot of educators here in the Assembly, but I hope that those of you who are not educators are not quite clear that there can be the same quality of teaching in a class that has 14 students per teacher compared to those of 28 students per teacher. And that's where the standard falls in its basic task. Ensure your children equal schooling conditions. I repeat, this is just one example, and the standards are really abundant for them, related to time and implementation of these programmes. I don't know, can you imagine 2022? I don't know how you, I personally find it rather difficult to imagine a technologically technologically far-reaching future. Because 15 years in the future in the order of such rapid technological changes can mean an indescribably different present than what we have today. Or, the illustration works. On Monday, children who protested and managed to delay the state's graduation organized a super-communications e-mail through social networks primarily facebooks, blogs and the like. These are all innovations that have developed in Croatia in recent years. Or, 15 years ago, e-mails were rare, and today, through broadband internet and social networking, a brand-new medium is being created that changes the function of the school. And now, in such a fact, technologically certain, but completely unknown future, our ministry gives itself the right to prescribe what the classroom will look like in 2022. Of course, unfortunately completely disappointing. For example, the pedagogical standard describes what a classroom should look like, among other things, in 2022, and says: “The equipment at the level of the classroom. Work tables for two-seater students. One-seaters' desks. The chairs with the back for the students. A table for a teacher with a computer. A chair with a teacher's back. Three-part school board, audio line, wall panel for exhibitions, soft plate and magnetic board, cabinets, window and shelf, and first aid kit. My colleagues and colleagues, I, when I read it, reminded me of the classroom equipment that was what they were like at the time of Ivica Kičmanović that we read in those novels. So today there are almost a good part of better equipped schools, and there are such multimedia projectors almost daily, and we are prescribed by the ministry as standard chalk and board with an audio line. What just happened to the pompously announced smartboard project? The standard prescribes one per school. The truth works, it should be said that equipment is a high school classroom predicting an LCD projector, but we do not understand why he is not obliged and in primary school, since the requirement for the maturity of teaching, given the development age of children is more necessary and more frequent in primary schools. Thus set standards on such a long time with the exception of preschool education standards, it is not worth revealing to him another face of these proposals. They're simply in that part of terrifyingly anacronic. Fourth. These standard proposals are extremely unequal, i.e. they are written under extremely non-compliant conditions. On the one hand, some details are secluded and prescribed to microscopic precision, so there is a precise and precise width of the corridor in standards. For example, the step gauge must be at least 33 centimetres and at least 4 changes in air per hour should be ensured in classrooms with a maximum air current rate of 0.2 metres per second and a relative humidity of 45 to 55% should be ensured in classrooms. On the other hand, some for the education of essential things, especially this applies to the primary school standard, for example, the equipment of the physics cabinet or biology cabinets and the like, the criteria for radioactive equipment. It's not mentioned at all, it's not in the standards. Something in that sense, but not sufficiently precise, is defined in the standard for high school. Speaking of these details, I can't help but mention as the kind of curiosity of article 49 in preschool standard that says that natural light is the most significant psychological, and watch out now, the physiological factor for working conditions. It is then stated in paragraph 4. that rooms must be optimally sunbathing due to bactericidal activity. However, paragraph 5 states that there must be protection against direct sun air penetration in order to avoid overheating. And then in paragraph 6, the optimal sunlight is repeated again, because of the bactericidal activity, and that the eclipse must be ensured. It's at least one item too much, not to say some nonsense, so we suggest to the ministry that they read all the standards again well, so very precise and all the formulations so that people don't actually make fun of some formulations for years, which is the case with another standard from the authority of education. Fifth, although prescribing conditions for 21st century school, in some ways and standards our ministry cannot move from the 19th century. Standards are fully rigidly held to the class of the subject-hour system and in fact make it impossible to organise teaching in the form of a project day and similar modern teaching organisational forms. In short, standards rather than offering a developmental vision of education, cement what has so far worked mainly on the basis of a kind of custom. Sixth, we're coming up with a very painful funding theme. Pedagogical standards also require significant financial resources from both the level of the state budget and the level of the local budget of the founders. Since the founders of the school and kindergarten unit are local self-government, these standards are what we transfer responsibility to, while at the same time not providing funds or prescribing a new circle of decentralisation. It's a bit of an absurd detail. Of the more than 10 billion kuna investment needed to be invested and provided by the founders, therefore cities and counties, 22% of the VAT will be added to the 10 billion kuna, and will make a huge profit at the application of the country's standards. There's one more thing forgotten in the whole story. When adopting the budget of the state, the Government shall each year adopt minimum financial standards which determine the amount of decentralised funds which do not comply with these standards and which will not be possible because they are based on different rules. Therefore, the state, on the one hand, sets standards, and on the other, does not provide funds and expects the units of local self-government to meet them without sufficient amounts of decentralised resources with a highly restrictive borrowing policy. We've heard a lot here so far and I think it's important to say that we all have to be aware here, that applying these or some other standards will only work if funding is provided. Otherwise, everything remains just an empty letter on paper and another unfulfilled promise. For example, in the high school standard, the Government writes that 294,5 million kuna is needed for 2008 and only in the rare below admits that it has secured 78 million kuna, and in order to justify it, adds undefined amounts from CEB 5 and loans from the EIB that would be implemented and that we have not adopted standards, and yet does not define a part of the decentralised funds which, even without applying both standards, barely cover the law of purpose. We therefore believe that, in addition to the political decision, it is necessary to adopt pedagogical standards, an adequate financial decision should be made, otherwise there will be nothing since the implementation of the standards. There are some things in the standards that have not been done before, and there should have been them, or at least we as the representatives that we're deciding on, we didn't get the information about it. The video of the current situation in schools, so we've heard, there's different levels of state in schools, so without the correct video, the exact state it is, it's hard to see what and how it needs to be changed. On the other hand, we did not get any evidence in the reasons that a demographic study was actually done, or a projection of the number of children in the period for which the standard is prescribed. Because today we don't know which children and what areas to build a school in, because we're writing standards for these high school kids who protested the day before yesterday. I mean, we're talking about a 15-year-old period, about kids going to school that haven't even been born yet. Of course, there are some things in the standards that don't belong to the standard. For example, the burden of teachers, the burden of students, I think it's a question of the law, or the curriculum, as well as all the standards related to textbooks. Because the definition of textbooks is in the Law on textbooks, by the way, a very old definition because the textbook limits exclusively to books. I think we should appreciate the book, but we should also talk about the ability of multimedia resources in the task of textbooks. And on the other hand, there's a learning standard that defines some things. Our representatives and representatives from the SDP Club will present specific details in individual discussions, so I would not be obliged to do so on behalf of the club. And allow me in the end just a few final notes. Pedagogical standards are extremely important documents, with perhaps laws and principled curricula, absolutely the most important documents regarding education. In that sense, we of the SDP had high expectations of them, and we felt it was necessary that the issue of pedagogical standards should be achieved not only professionally but also political consensus, since it is indeed long-term documents. But as standards abound with many concept and substance delusions, since anacronically unequal and ultimately, in fact financially unsustainable, they can't get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7030	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7031	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct the misquote of a colleague who's been working here with numbers where he's talking about the number of students in the classrooms. It's all based on ideal numbers, however, I don't know if it's an oversight, because it's about the number of students. Whether it's 14, whether it's 20 or 28, we have areas that have fewer children. It is areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and islands. Therefore, it should be taken into account that these figures refer to this, and of course where the number of students is satisfactory, so you can talk about a pure pedagogical and ideal standard. Although success depends not only on that number. Depending on whether the population is selected, whether it is an average population, whether it is a negative choice, etc. Therefore, I find this to be a completely false allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7032	Thank you. We still have the HSLS Club, HSU. Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7033	Mr. President, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen representatives, colleagues and colleagues. As with every standard and these standards have actually prescribed certain criteria quantified or not quantified, connotative or denotative with less or more possibilities to interpret them, but for the first time, for the first time, I would say systematically that we are trying and trying to prescribe certain criteria relating to one reality, one part of the social reality that is otherwise quite fluid, inconsistencies, which are subject to constant changes in which you have day, week, yearly, influenced by a whole series of factors from demographic to sociological and political. So we're trying this rather fluid reality inconceivable that even resists planning. Education by its nature resists planning. It's kind of the life of the fabric of society, it's the ferment of society, the yeast of society that if you want to shape it, if you want in that mixture in any way from the outside, it's actually constantly avoiding you both from the sight and from the hands. But at least we're trying, so at least we're trying to do everything we've done so far with different standards, criteria, rules, regulations, decisions, legal acts, we're trying to put in place here consistently in some way. I think that's good. Experiences from European and world countries show that there are several basic documents that determine education or the entire education system in one country are, above all, national educational or educational standards. Secondly, it is a national curricula and these are, of course, certain classification frameworks that actually relate more to those transitions, to those joint places of primary, secondary school, labour markets or high school, and again to the labour market. So those classification frameworks which, in fact, determine both mobility and certain phenomena in the interaction of the economy of the overall society and education. I'm going to say right now that I'm supporting adoption, I think this is a brave step. Few would dare come before us in these circumstances with such a proposal. When I say under these circumstances, I just want to say that the richest Croatian city, Zagreb, is teaching three shifts in many schools. That in the richest Croatian town with no difficulty in singleing out 40 or 50 million kunas for a football club today, 2,000 children are waiting for enrolment in kindergarten. That in the richest Croatian town in which it is of course no difficulty to allocate enormous resources for perhaps some purposes in which we see nothing developmental, it seems to me only 60% or slightly less of the school has a sports hall. That in one of the richest Croatian cities in Pula, too, unfortunately our school has recently burned down. It was an assembly, and the installations were on fire, as he told me, here's a fellow mayor. So it didn't happen somewhere, now let my Zagorci forgive me Colloquially, in Desert Bistro or somewhere where the poor end is, but it happened in Pula. So it happened in one of the richest Croatian cities. We live in reality, ladies and gentlemen, in which, unfortunately, the vast majority of our cities cannot satisfy the minimum of these standards that we today prescribe. But we live the same way in a society where we can say, the bile or the most intense public debate, the public debate that we all had together in the 10th month, it's a pre-election campaign, it's actually the widest public forum or at least part of the public that talks through a political debate, it was more important to say about Peljesac and the bridge than will be said about the future of education. We live in a society where education is not a fundamental value and we need to recognize it for ourselves. And in such circumstances we are still trying to determine certain standards, to prescribe certain standards, even to try to quantify and even to this level that we are really measuring the flow and streaming of air, which is certainly too far-fetched, but still certain standards that we are now either aware of or will become aware that it is very difficult to maintain and implement, yet we are trying to put these standards on paper and, of course, to discuss and publish to the Croatian public. What I'm sure, when I'm already commending, the effort is not good, is the fact that pedagogical standards that will not be enforceable will not be pedagogical standards but ordinary demagogue standards. And it's up to us to make this document doable. Life, especially the education system resists administration, I talked about it. But if we won't be able to implement this document then it will be not pedagogical but demagogue standards. If we can't do everything we need to do in order to even get the implementation going, then it'll all end up as infamous as the state's prom. We were all aware that it was the European countries in the environment, we were all aware that we had to do it, we brought in the proper documents, and yet we gave up the state's graduation. I'm afraid if it's not feasible, we're going to give up the standards themselves, especially because we actually have coefficient weights or what we're going to share coefficients in 2022 or 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, the education system is such a social system in which in two years the structure changes so significantly, in just two years. In just two years, you've increased the amount of knowledge. In just two years, you have to reassess the curricula in two years. We've been talking here for almost 20 years. I wonder if we're going to put aside now our financial power you know, the community, and society, and the state has as much money for certain projects as the value of these projects. If we do, let us forgive our colleagues for the Zagreb-Sisak highway or for the Peljeski bridge then be assured we must have for education and education. That's what HSLS was talking about clearly enough. So let's let go of our financial power and power. We have money for education if we want to have money for education, especially because it is not only the state budget but it is the budgets of the local self-government units. So I'm not talking about what the state has put itself or all of us as a priority right now, I'm just talking about that despite this financial effect, we need to think about whether these standards are going to be worth more in 2020 or 2015 at all. For example, I am convinced that however we look at it, the multimedia teaching will lead to everything that we have calculated here and what we have prescribed for the child in the necessary space, chairs, benches, in the IT classroom, in the classroom for, say, technical culture or artistic expression, that 2015 will be quite different, absolutely. If you were 15 years ago, remember, you'd have prescribed an IT classroom you'd have to prescribe about a place for a machine like ATMs today. That's how computers were then with all the equipment accompanying them. Today every child can work and we work here on laptops. Fifteen years from now. It's already going on today that computer buy project for our elementary school kids, those little green computers. Probably every child will actually work with just one little keyboard and everything will be networked and multimedia. So if we're prescribing something today that we're about to achieve in 2015, then we're actually doing something that we're never going to do because then we're going to have other requirements. I'm not saying it's wrong not to be seen as a criticism of someone. I'm just talking like a reminder or a warning, and maybe a request for all of us to cut those deadlines anyway. There's no point in it being 2020, the more education we need to become fundamental social value and concern. No one can explain to me if one Varazdin who is not the richest city in Croatia, if in a month all schools can go to one shift, to the whole day type of teaching. By the way, I don't know what a half-day class is. There's no half-day type. If school has one shift, then it should be open to children and parents, teachers all day long. The school is the focus of society as Emil Durken says. She's the focal point of socialization. She needs to be open, no half-day school opening. But if one Varazdin can make seven elementary schools and halls that children can have a whole day-long teaching type, no one can convince me that Zagreb, Pula, Osijek and small places can do the same by 2010. I can do it, but then local self-government, cities and counties will have different priorities. Then you won't be able to pay 50 million kuna for football clubs that will never last in Europe but will have to be given for school. Then you won't be able to city land I don't know how to give but you'll have to give for school. And we're actually going to force this local self-government to build school facilities in synergy, in some kind of hearing, in discussion, in agreement and in conversation with the government. Not because we have new facilities, the purpose of a full-day course is not that you have facilities and classrooms and that every classroom has its own classroom, but that a child can study at school, can eat at school, can play at school, can rest at school, can perform outside school activities, at school every day can have exercise and not just twice a week because it is too little for today's child. At school, he can have psychosocial help if he needs it. That's the point of building schools. Not only to say, we have increased the capacity of gross or net surfaces but so that we can say that the child learns for life at school "Non soles ad vitae disimus" – "We are not studying for school but we are learning for life!". So these pedagogical standards really make sense, but they only make sense if we cut those deadlines, and if what we're going to share all the coefficients isn't in the year 2022. There are other examples, I mentioned Varazdin. There are other examples where less rich environments, of course, are the state and city budgets of "per capital". For example, the Varazdin County, which is far more poor than the city of Varazdin, does the same. There are others, we heard today Istria or the Primorsko-goranska. And I think that co-operation between the state and the school can just lead to a new wave of building schools, building school sports halls, and reducing those deadlines in at least ten years. I think it would be optimal in 2012. What I also want to say here and supplement with the amendment if necessary is a special concern for children with special needs and for gifted children. Croatia, I keep talking about it, has only three developmental opportunities. The first is second education, the second is education and the third is education. And we need to allow all categories of mostly young people to have adequate educational care. I haven't noticed here, for example, that here is predicted to be seven, ten children hearing damage or children who have motor disorders one rehabilitator. Slovenians allow each such child to have a follower in the course, and this country particularly supports it. And we're going to put here today the possibility that even in our schools there will be volunteers who will naturally have a special permit, any person who, probably most local self-government, will be particularly rewarded for working with such children. As on the other hand, I think you should make it possible for gifted children to have something that isn't here and that's transgenerational learning. The whole day's teaching just makes it possible. It allows you to have a fifth - grade child to learn with a sixth - grade child, to help each other, i.e., these older ones, probably by nature, will help younger ones. So let's make it possible, if we're already building schools, if we're already trying to have a whole day-long type of teaching, then we're going to make it possible for transgenerational learning, especially for those children who show greater affection or generosity to a particular area. In any case, we will support the adoption of pedagogical standards, but I repeat again, let's think about it. This time I appeal to everyone, regardless of the parties. Let us consider cutting deadlines, for an education system that is not designed for the needs of the population cannot be successful. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not plan for eternity, we plan for our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7034	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7035	Your Honor, Mr. President. I've got one correction. It is not true that the Pelješki Bridge during the campaign was more important than education, but it is true, as we want evenly standards in education throughout Croatia, so we want a balanced transport connection throughout Croatia. One little explanation. From the comfort of the geographical position of Varazdin it may be a little easier to comment on the Pelješki bridge and on the specifics of our campaign, and by the way, the knowledge society was one of the main elements of our campaign. And by the way, what I'm leaving for Tuesday, Dubrovnik 2010 all in one shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7036	So we have the right to take our parents to the hospital so we don't wait for the border crossing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7037	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7038	It's the same standard. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7039	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues. They are not children with special needs, they are children with developmental difficulties. Please use the official term used in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7040	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's what all the clubs have ended up with. We have 27 registered, 26 individual, 1 club complete. And since we didn't have a break, we announced that the clubs would end today, with Tuesday starting an individual debate. We passed 11 points of the agenda yesterday and today, and I think it was working full steam. However, yesterday we had, our colleagues were busy, justified, so maybe we had a less debate, and for that, etc., but here we ended two days with 11 agenda points and I think we could end up now and at 9.30 a.m. we'll see each other on Tuesday, so we'll see each other again, I think, once or twice on Tuesday, and compensate for what we're losing with those two holidays, which is tomorrow and 22. Thank you very much. And the first is Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Ivan Hanžek, and Mario Habek, and Davor Huška, and so on. Here, pleasant weekend extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7041	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue with the session and the debate on the proposals of pedagogical standards. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Pedagogical standards that should be a major step in improving the quality of teaching and school environment also mark the idea of teaching in optimal conditions equally for all children at the country-wide level. However, Croatia, as we know, is a country with an undeveloped population density, in fact an uneven population density and equally unequal living standards. For example, I cannot compare schools in Zagreb with schools in Gorski Kotar or Lica or schools in Dubrovnik with remote schools on islands in our county. They cannot be compared either by the number of students in the classrooms or by technological equipment or capabilities. There is no mention of inequalities in Croatian schools in standard, there is actually no example of how many inequalitys we have and how well we are all aware of it. Take an example of the number of students in elementary schools where the minimum number of students per class is fourteen, optimal twenty, maximum twenty-eight. They are not equal working conditions in the classrooms as far as the number of students is concerned, and the quality of teaching is clearly measured by the increase in the number of children. The fulfilment of standards will sooner be achieved, rather it will reach a school in Lica where the maximum number of students is 14 but from a poor demographic picture while the primary school with 28 students in Zagreb will be in that case, lagging behind with the quality of teaching. However, since the financing of infrastructure and information equipment was left to the local community then it is clear that schools in Zagreb will be ahead of much poorer local communities in Lica. Within the standard, a lot of space is devoted to descriptions of building requirements that schools must meet which is unnecessary because there are other laws that regulate use and standards that must meet public spaces. Furthermore, it is a major objection to the standard that it is unsustainable, i.e. since the completion of the implementation is predicted only for 15 years, the standard is made for today and not for the future, although the obligation of information is stressed. As we know technology is changing every day and the standard does not require constant modernisation of new technologies and it can easily happen that the information equipment currently prescribed by the standard in two to three years is inadequate. Fifteen years is a long period and there should be room and opportunity for the continuous inclusion of modern equipment which should be binding in these standards. After 15 years of completing the implementation of standards, I wonder if we will meet again to create a new standard since this present one will be obsolete. There are also doubts that it will not be implemented in 2022. The standards, unfortunately, make it a common impression that the prescribed order works, or some items deal with detail, and some others, and these very important items are devoted to very little space and are quite undefined. This is specifically about the state of expertise. Consider the example of elementary schools where it is prescribed that every elementary school with up to 180 students must employ two professional associates of which one must be a educator. The elementary school, which has 180 to 500 students, must employ three professional associates, and the primary school of more than 500 students must be employed by four professional associates. A number of professional associates have not been set up again. Let's also take the fact that a pedagogogogic is required in each school, it's explicitly said. And who else can be a librarian. So far, at the level of Croatia, at the level of a thousand, 743 students, an expert associate came along, and this could have been a librarian and the situation itself was clear. In Dubrovnik-Neretva County of 31 primary schools we have 9 psychologists, 14 defecologists, 23 educators. Some pedagogues work at two schools and a psychologist works at five schools. Imagine, a psychologist with three thousand students. What can he do on any preventive program? Unfortunately, we have recently witnessed unpleasant and even alarming events in Croatian schools. Primary schools that are a passing cell in the adult world and are the first institution in which children acquire certain knowledge of the future but are also starting to socialise and learn behavior are also unfortunately places of excellent student behaviour. "Teachers cut their hair under the watch", "The Father of elementary school students threatened to kill her" were just some of the headlines we read daily in the paper. The increase in crime but also the deviating behaviour is a growing trend in Croatia that needs to be dealt with more seriously. This should already be since primary school the introduction of a number of professional associates who would work to prevent the deviating behaviour of students through a specific contact or workshop whose work programmes b or included in a mandatory school curricula for the reason that there is no improvisation that are very often present today. The standards must also include an accurate number of professional associates and an accurate description of the employees of professional associates, i.e. educators, psychologists, defectologists, librarians, etc. Because we know that the pedagogical monitors the realization of educational work, the psychologist monitors psychophysical development, etc., that I do not speak competences of these profiles. I would then single out the educational-rehabilitation profile experts in fact a great need for a logo as an expert in prevention of learning problems, which is also a growing problem that brings much more serious consequences to the child's behaviour afterwards. And if we want a knowledge society, we should also work on the mental health of young people in order to reduce the percentage of violence and deviation in Croatian society. That's why we need an increased and precise number of professional associates especially psychologists. I would also refer to measures in kindergarten pedagogical standards when it comes to the health care and nutrition of children in kindergartens and the field of health care programmes. When taking preventive measures, it writes for the reduction of infectious diseases and the prevention of injury. Unfortunately, we still do not have sufficient awareness of the importance of oral health for the general health of individuals and even less about the importance of conducting oral hygiene and education of children and parents should be the first level of joint prevention of a particular caries. Thus, children and parents can receive basic information and guidelines for the preservation of oral health primarily through kindergartens. It is also a problem of funding, as part of it is transferred to the local community, and the state budget provides for too little resources to ensure the envisaged implementation. It is also, little, almost nothing said about the standards related to textbooks. The pedagogical standard is, of course, an extremely important document that was expected more of. More is expected to be the clarity of standards in individual segments. And I hope that there will be some respect for the remarks and the work done. I would mention a recent event about a long-prepared project of state graduation that showed unprepared and incoordination of the education system. And we ask ourselves whether these criticisms will be taken into account on pedagogical standards or whether the standard will be legal on the principle of bologna and almost state graduation and destruction remains to actually be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7043	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7044	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. If this material were considered only as a political question, then we would surely find a whole series of objections and objections to, and to, its methodology and content. However, since the wish of all together is expressed through these previous discussions and through the proposals, to adopt and introduce state pedagogical standards, then, in the debate, you should try to suggest and point out what imposes logic. In my debate, I will concentrate primarily on preschool education because I come from a city that does not have a decentralised function in primary education and secondary education, regardless of what is relatively detailed about the problems and what is happening and what is happening between directors and all those who work in this educational process. But since I come from a town that is a friend of children, a healthy city, which has an extremely quality kindergarten with extremely rich programs and a long tradition, then I will concentrate on what I think should be emphasized. First of all, standards are necessary. Especially in activities that have a significant impact on the education and education of young generations, new generations that will mark the 21st century in our country. However, at the beginning of the material, I was saddened by the fact that we have been working on statistics since 31 December 2006 in the material we are discussing after 1 May 2007. Someone will say, there are not so many significant changes in the number of newborn children, in the number of children who are in education, in preschool or in education. But the fact is that we have oscillations that suggest that the picture will not be completely clear and completely consistent if we do not deal with concrete data, or rather if we do not deal with trends that point to certain phenomena and phenomena. When it comes to preschool education, it should be said that I advocate that preschool education, kindergarten, becomes an obligation for everyone, units of local self-government. We are today seen in fact with the situation that preschool education is founded on how much dignity, philing, feelings in the local community, and not how much real needs are and for what, actually harder and parents, and that should be said and emphasized by children. Pedagogical standards in pre-school education, someone will say they're dealing with a lot of technical, construction technical standards. But I think it's necessary, too. For a simple reason, because if we want to level the conditions of education for young people, children, then I think we need to establish minimum standards and that this is a need and necessity. But at the same time, I think too little attention is given to a part that really matters. And that's, that's professional associates. In fact, today we are faced with an increasing number of children with developmental difficulties, less or more pronounced. Is society more sensitized, whether parents are more educated or more sensitized to see it earlier, and show need and seek help, or is indeed an increasing number of children who need such help. I think that in standards we should create assumptions that this is the obligation of every institution that deals with preschool education, because these current solutions do not meet all the needs that exist with us. I'll say, we've come to solve this one problem in a way that avoids a situation that's quite common. If an expert associate is employed in one institution when it is necessary to treat children in another institution, then the division is mine, yours or ours or yours. So we took into account the out sorcing we hired a logo in "Society Our Children" which provides help and services to children from kindergarten groups, children who are not covered by kindergarten, but children from primary school, including from other municipalities. And not to be too long in what the profession is, and the people here from my club can say more, because they know more about the professional part. I'd like to highlight the part that is most problematic for local self-government, which is providing financial resources. The fact is that these standards mean that the state must plant, even in the context of decentralisation, more significant its shoulders, or leave part of its tax cake to local self-government by respecting standards or applying standards. We were a year ago and a few days ago, let my colleagues and colleagues from the Association of Cities remind me whether it was, were witnesses when by the Ministry of Finance and by international institutions presented the programme "Standard services under the authority of public activities", meaning from education, pre-school education, to those services provided by local administrations or self-government. I think that pedagogical standards should absolutely apply the principles of standard service and that then the state should ensure through its fiscal capacities those who are not able to do so through their fiscal capacities that standard should be provided from either decentralised or decentralised means to enable that standard to be met. Whether through the budget, there is no need to be a budget can also be specialised funds within which such problems can then be addressed or overcome, which can indeed be an exceptional burden. It's an ugly burden when it comes to raising and educating young generations. However, we know that citizens of local self-government expect a lot, that they also require the resolution of those things that we are not able to or are not authorized to solve, and that there are many often misunderstandings about funding pre-school and school education especially when it comes to programmes of extra-school activities or extended programmes. So once again, I stand for pedagogical standards. I think that deadlines are too long to implement, that we need to be more ambitious and that, in any case, as well as for other things, this standard should be kept up-to-date and this Parliament should discuss it in its up-to-date. Because, as my colleague said, simple time, techniques, technology, and knowledge move so quickly to bring one standard for the long term and it is not desirable for the long term. It's more desirable to build and promote it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7045	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7046	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The application of the new Law on Preschool Education and Education of many kindergartens in Croatia will not be able to comply with those laws and regulations on childcare. This is due to financial opportunities, i.e. the inability of certain municipalities and cities that cannot follow the standards set. The law does not provide for the obligation to co-finance child care costs in kindergarten by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in a difference that is not able to finance the unit of local self-government, i.e. the founder of kindergartens. In fact, even so far, salaries and other material costs of employees are far below the basic school pay regulations. With a younger mixed group numbering 12 children aged one to three years, and with care for one of the educators. This proposal explicitly states that up to 12 children can be included in such a mixed group and that 2 educators are concerned in the 10 hour program. The Klenovnik municipality located not far from Ivanac is among the poorer municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The budget of the municipality is one million and eight hundred thousand kuna, and from that modest budget it must also settle the needs of a primary school of 50,000 kuna, the transport of pupils from the secondary schools of 200000 kuna and preschool education of 220000 kuna. The municipality of Klenovnik itself numbers 2300 inhabitants of which 120 children are preschool. The “Latica” kindergarten in Klenovnik was built on its own 30 years ago, and numbers two mixed groups. It provides a ten-hour program and two shorter programs. Total care for 65 children from the municipality of Klenovnik, 35 children in the primary programme, 20 children in preschool programme and 10 children in the general playground. Because of the place in which the kindergarten operates, the possibility of a local self-government unit that is the founder of kindergartens, almost no segment of care for preschool children will be met due to lack of financial resources. The same goes for the expert team of educators, psychologists, defecologists for the same reason. Therefore, I would like to ask the esteemed promoters of preschool standard, pedagogical standard of preschool education and education to consider this proposal as well as the opinion of all small kindergartens operating in villages and in the islands of the Republic of Croatia and meeting in their work with the same problems. The kindergartens operating in units of local self-government whose incomes are not able to fully finance the needs of pre-school organisations are very aware of the value and importance of pre-school education in the life of each child and society in general, that part of the funding or full care over funding at least partially assumes on itself the ministry responsible for pre-school education. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that all children in the Republic of Croatia and all preschool workers have the same rights regardless of where they take care of preschool children. It is also necessary to consider the compulsory employment of professional associates, educators and psychologists in all kindergartens regardless of the number of children, and to co-finance or fully finance their employment from the state budget. This would reduce the possibility of deviating children’s behavior in the school system, since educators, psychologists, could react in time preventively. I also welcome the opening of the debate on the pedagogical standards of the primary education system already at the beginning of this conference, because it is high time for Croatia to get this pedagogical standard as it seems almost gone by now. As a young parent, I am particularly interested in having these standards finally passed, but I am a little concerned about the ambiguity and uncertainty of individual solutions in this proposal as probably many parents throughout Croatia. First of all, I must warn that for all of us parents whose children are just entering the education system or are about to enter an unacceptable time limit for the full application of the standard by 2022. If individuals are already advertising Croatia as a country of knowledge, then budget funds should also be found for the near full application of the standards and no later than four years later. If you can find funds to buy various warplanes, new weapons, increase the state administration, then you have to find funds for our children to get the education system that suits the time we live in. We colleagues and colleagues can wait until 2032, but unfortunately children can't. In the introductory part of the proposal, a number of statistics are adopted between the number of children who go so-called. optional education, i.e. music and dance schools. The number of children in such schools is less than five percent of the total number of primary schools students, which is a defeating data, and the Assembly should assign the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to create a special strategy for the development of basic music and dance schools. These schools are of great importance especially to small communities and usually operate within the framework of popular universities and face many problems in their work from lack of space to lack of professional staff. These schools best raise and direct children to the music world and help them to recognize and appreciate the true musical values. If there are more children in these schools, I believe that we will hear less about the expansion of various clubs with unquality music, which are often the site of various conflicts and problems for the wider community. In particular, it should be insisted on the mandatory introduction of professional primary school associates, i.e. educators, psychologists and defectologists, as they would thus prevent various problems in child behaviour in primary schools. The current proposal in which the number of professional associates connects to the number of students is not good because schools with fewer students also have children with behavioral problems that require special care from professional associates. This should be linked to my proposal to hire professional associates and kindergartens, and in this way the state would ensure a vertical education up to the age of adolescents. I believe it would also increase the security of tolerance and the creation of a better educational environment in our schools. It is also important to ensure that the library works in all schools throughout the course. It is known that small communities with a small number of students usually do not have a city or municipality library, and the school library would be the only place to meet the book for those children, a place where they could access information and become more active in society. I am pleased that the promoter predicted the possibility of reintroducing school buses to competent schools. In fact, we now have a situation where different companies with which buses carry children, so we have a chance to read scary things in the black chronicle about the dropout of children from buses, including asphyxiation on buses. The recent example of the Chazmatrans bus again makes us all think carefully about how our children are transported from house to school and vice versa. It should not be pointed out that neither school nor parents have control over the behavior of drivers who are not part of the school system. Therefore, I would like the proposer to provide for the mandatory return of school buses to the school. Excuse me, Vice President, can you give me some silence? ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd also like to warn you of another fact that is going through this standard proposal. The first article points out that the aim of standards is equal to the development of primary education in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and should indeed be because for the state, all children are equal to living in rich Zagreb or in some poor municipality in Lica or in Varazdin County. However, Article 47 calls into question as funds for the implementation of this standard are provided, inter alia, and from the budget of local communities. If so far some schools have had hundreds of computers, projectors, equipped laboratories for natural sciences, and some computers only with the director, about projectors not to talk, then this standard should allow all children to come to the same position for developing their own potentials. This is one part of the funding, and it is unclear which, shifts to local budgets, which then depend no longer on the minister's development strategy, but on the will and trouble of local political structures. Then again, let the children become more privileged than others. Finally, I point out once again that we young parents do not have time to wait 15 years for the full implementation of standards, but we require the Government to find funding and that these standards begin to apply as soon as possible and no later than 4 years. I think children are an absolute priority and many other things can wait 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7047	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7048	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a few words on concrete proposals concerning the proposal of the state pedagogical standard of primary education system. First thing about basic school space standards. It should be pointed out that in the last four-year term in Croatia for the needs and pupils of primary schools and secondary school students built with the help of the state budget of a tenth, I am free to say hundreds of new school sports halls. With these new standards, we move on with the building of the halls, and the plan and the need to build the school pools, which is now really necessary. Because as we have seen from the material, only three primary schools in Croatia today have school pools. This is to be welcomed and I am sure that these projects will include funds with the state budget and units of local self-government, or regional self-government, cities, municipalities, counties throughout Croatia. And thus shorten the deadlines foreseen to meet these standards. The co-financing model and the proposal should be put down to cities, municipalities, counties as soon as possible to move towards concrete realization. Furthermore, after talking to several principals of primary schools in Požeko-Slavon County, i.e. cities in our county have been crystallized by a number of concrete criteria, i.e. standards in primary education. Thus, in Chapter 5, the criteria for the number of students in the class section of the educational group, Article 15, under the other workers, of the state pedagogical standard of primary school, stipulates that the school which has more than 16 grade departments employs a secretary, a financial accountant. There is no mention of an administrative reference that is now listed in the proposal for a pedagogical standard in the proposal for high school and said that schools with more than 400 students have the right to administrative staff. In this respect, primary and secondary schools in the beginning are not placed in an equal position because, of course, there is a real need for such officials in primary schools. In addition, Chapter 8 of the technical training criteria, Article 18 provides for the obligation of teachers and professional associates to attend at least once every 2 years at national level, and at least 3 times a year in the county’s vocational training. Unfortunately, there is no indication of how funding will be implemented. So far, this sum has been a symbolic 72 kuna per teacher for the whole year, and I think the fee bill should go at real costs, because in an area that is not connected by public transport, these costs are far higher and are paid from regular material costs. For example, a teacher's departure to county activity from our primary school in Pakrac, so up to Požega is 216 kuna per teacher. Multiplying this by 3 times a year and times the number of students, it is not difficult to calculate how much regular costs are burdened on the needs of the school. And finally, I would also like to say a few words as mayor on the experiences and suggestions relating to the financing of standards of pre-school education and education. It is true that this segment is funded and financed by local self-government from its incomes and, of course, by the parents of the children of the students of the mangers and kindergartens. Of course, it would be good for the state budget to be included in the financing of at least these new increased costs resulting from the proposed standards, which we can see that a certain amount of funding is also planned in the state budget, only not clear, precise criteria for the sharing of these funds. Furthermore, it should be said that the state has financed and still financed capital investments in the construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of children's kindergartens and mantles, through various forms of partnership, whether with the World Bank and others, which are the founders of local self-government units. Finally, I fully support these new standards, they come across a positive echo on the ground in the conversation and with teachers, primary and secondary school directors, and are particularly interesting to us local self-government units regarding preschool education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7049	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7050	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will look only at the pedagogical standards of preschool education that I consider to be ideally set, but I fear that the consequences of applying these standards without amending the rules on the financing of local self-government will result in more preschool children being covered by preschool services and baby sitters than children's kindergartens and other forms of preschool. According to this standard, 55% of children have been covered by different programmes so far, and the goal is to cover 60%. With a 10-hour stay in kindergarten, 97,000 children of 265,000 preschool children are registered in Croatia. By preschool program 16 thousand, and out of these 97 thousand who leave kindergartens, 2 thousand 743 children have difficulty, 2 thousand 75 are integrated into regular programs, and only 668 are in special programmes. It further explains that for the implementation of this standard in the 2008 budget The Republic of Croatia, the country's budget has planned 8.7 million kuna, with around 22 million to be provided by 2013. It also states that for 2005, local and regional self-government in its budgets provided a billion and 145 million for these needs. But I have information that for 2007, municipalities and cities are in their preschool education budgets that a billion and 407 million kuna are planned. For this year, that amount could be about a billion and 600. This information is very important when we get to the price and co-financing data from municipalities and cities. The promoter of the barata at an average price of 1,000 and 100 kuna and data, which is mentioned here, that parents pay an average of 500 kuna, and municipalities and cities of 600 kuna and bills showed them that the municipalities have about 400 million kuna for other needs. That would be very good if that were true. It would be true that Croatia is equally developed, that the structure of the budget of municipalities and cities throughout the country is the same or at least approximate and that all municipalities are equally burdened by providing for pre-school, pre-school education and education and the fact that we do not have municipalities or if we did not have them, where these expenditures represent 40% of the expenditure of the original budget revenues. And up to 40%! Under the law, states must finance public needs in the field of preschool education, and with great surprise I accept the fact that I have warned that some institutions authorised for preschool education of children with difficulties such as the Centre for Autism in Zagreb, arbitrary official documents, offering agreements to municipalities and cities announce that since 1.1.2009 the total cost of pre-school training of children with disabilities will have to be financed by local self-government. On the first question I get one I would say a strange answer to the minister, so I had to additionally send additional documents to prove that the process on the ground began such that the municipalities and cities were asked for the full funding of these children. Even the signature agreements were offered, but by following the documentation, I found that, say, the autism centre in nine days a month is charged by 1,224.50 kuna per child per municipality per month. What is the monthly price, the total price paid by the state, the local community and the parents if only the share of the municipality is 1.224.50 in nine days a month? Therefore, the average price I mentioned up to a thousand and 100, I simply doubt that it was correct or may have been correct in 2005 but this year it really isn't. Article 7 of these standards prescribes and indicates that children with difficulties of type and degree of difficulty are included in educational groups with a special programme in kindergarten according to social care rules. Article 2 also states that depending on the interest and ability of these children they have the right to participate in regular, special or alternative programmes. What is the objective of these standards? To include children with difficulties in regular programs or special programs. There are certain experiences from this area and many experts argue and prove that involving children with difficulties in regular programmes, therefore integration, gives far greater results than including them in special programmes, they say even closings in their own... This and the fact that let's say completely blind children who have passed an integrated system of preschool and primary education achieve fantastic results not only in grades but also in life progress and enable them to study for a number of new professions and professions other than what we learned to say all blind children for 50 years we trained to be telephone operators as the only profession available to them. [[You don't understand.]] In article 16, he starts preschooling and says that he usually organizes himself in kindergarten, if there are no kindergartens, then in elementary school. Who finances preschool if she's in kindergarten? Who finances preschool if she's in private school? I note that for the regular standard of preschool, i.e. kindergartens, in some municipalities expenditure is also 40% of the budget. Standards are good, but they don't answer the question of funding. Furthermore, children's kindergarten of optimal size from 17 to 20 educational groups of regular programs or 340 to 400 children. Children's kindergartens with district departments may have up to 30 educational groups or up to 600 children. In the educational group of children with regular programmes up to 12, from 6 to 12 months up to five children, then in the seventh year to 25 children. So, from 5 to 25, which is good. I just remind you of the agreement that we club-free deputies got 15 minutes to discuss the deal with the President of the Parliament last week. But now he says, in the educational group, only one child with easier difficulties can be included on the basis of the opinion of childcare professionals, and then the number of children in the group decreases by two. So if it's a group of children up to 12 months old, where the standard of five children in the group is reduced by two, that's three. Only one child with major or combined difficulties can be included in the educational group, but the number of children in the educational group is then reduced by four. If it's a group up to 12 months old, five minus four is one. And one with a combination, so, just two kids. Doesn't it seem to you that these rigorously set standards won't stimulate mixed groups? That they will seek to establish a special department because of extremely high prices? Do we have enough experts that require these standards to force and go to such high and rigorous standards for five years? Because it's not only the problem of space, the number of employees, but also the professional code that these standards prescribe. And I'll finish the next one. With all the standards around the number of employees, the structure of the professional team, there will inevitably be an increase in the price of the stay of children in kindergarten, not just because of spatial standards. How will the municipalities and cities behave? It will reduce its share of the total price, resulting in an increase in the financial increase in the obligation of parents. Since so far only 97,000 children are placed in kindergartens, this will result in the fact that this number will fall rather than grow. The information that municipalities and cities in Croatia are owners of everything if I am not wrong 307...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7051	A little, please, lock it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7052	Children's kindergartens and preschools. They will go and try to continue to give space to the private initiative, and the only obligation of the municipality that will strive through a legal minimum of 30% of the price is to finance the stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7053	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7054	That's why, just one suggestion, if I can still make it. I propose that the deadline of application of the standard is increased to eight years, as the deadline precisely because of these prices, precisely because Croatia has not yet implemented financial decentralisation in terms of the municipality's and cities' income side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7055	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7056	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We're discussing state pedagogical standards here today. I'd say we're talking about a whole series of Croatian absurds today. For example, I really believe that these three pedagogical standards are extremely important for Croatian citizens because they determine what will happen over the next 30, 40 years in the field of education, and only education is knowledge, the development of competence can ensure the country's progress. If so, if this is indeed a strategically important document, where is the minister? Why is there no minister here to listen to what Croatian MPs have to say about it? Apparently, it calms the student rebellion, because after the strike of high school students now said they would rebel, and he calms them down and says: "Don't rebel, we won't reduce the quota of enrolment to colleges. Instead of saying that we're going to double the quota rates to colleges, instead of saying that everyone who studies will be able to study on the ministry's burden, not only a third of them studying on the ministry's burden, and two thirds for personal needs. Another absurd. You see, Igor Stimac, allegedly he's some respected football player, he said, threatened, will not play a new football championship in stadiums that won't pass the licensing. Imagine the absurdity, every year there is a license of football stadiums in Croatia. When did the school licensing in Croatia take place? Do we know what schools they are? Or it was enough once, once in the past, 50 years ago, to open the school, to be in any kind of – such or no maintenance system and to take classes there today. You can't play football in a stadium that doesn't have lighting and where it's not a thousand two hundred lux per square centimetre of lawn. How's the lighting in our schools? How many of our students have satisfactory education lighting? We do not have it in this material either, nor do we know what kind of lighting should be in the future and when it will be achieved. This year, more than a billion kunas are invested in state money only in building a handball championship hall that will be played for two or three weeks, I think it is playing handball championship. It stands out much more for the handball championship than for all schools and kindergartens currently being built in Croatia. What is the Croatian priority? Knowledge, education, childcare or sports? What message are we sending to our young generations? Are they smarter to go to school or are they smarter to play sports? Because today is the biggest theme of Luka Modric. We don't know what scientists are at the highest price today or scientists are ultimately full of headlines, unless it's one of the affairs. Today, too, it is much more important in Croatia whether the halls will be completed until the world championship than whether schools will be completed by the new school year. Today, it is much more important whether the halls will be completed until the World Cup than whether student homes and dorms will be completed by the new school year. What are we talking about today? We have three school standards here today for discussion but we need to become aware of some facts. When these standards were made, a demographic study was not done. We don't know, we assume, but we don't know how many children we're going to have in 2022 when these standards are in full application, we don't know how many generations from zero to six, from six to twelve, or fourteen, or from twelve to sixteen years old or to eighteen years old. We don't know who's going to go to those schools because on the one hand, we have a catastrophic demographic forecast that the population of Croatia will be reduced and on the other hand we're going to go as if nothing is going to happen or that we're going to have this simple demographic reproduction that we have today somewhere between 45 and 50 thousand newborn children per year. That's the assumption that we know what we need to do in 2022. Another absurd. No school that has been built so far, which is being designed and built today, will meet these standards in 2022 because you cannot get consent to these new standards at the Ministry of Education today. You won't get the consent today to build a pool within the school. You're not going to get the consent today to build a classroom for the first to fourth grade at 65 square meters, but you're going to get the consent to build it at 58 square meters. All of our classrooms that we have today are built at 58 square meters. How are we going to expand these classrooms until 2022 to 65 square meters? Therefore, not that we have to build a part of the new schools that we miss here for one shift to turn the second and third shifts in high schools into first shifts but also where we have our first shift, we will have to close those schools if we want to achieve these standards in 2022 and build schools according to these standards. When you compare one and the other standards, so the one that is currently valid in relation to what is proposed then you have a situation where at the projected school of 20 grade classes, although it's also unclear to me that 20 grade classes will classify eight classes, eight generations, how many generations is it going to be which grade class, but here's the absurdity that you have... So, what difference does it make? [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] At such a projected school for 460 students today, according to the current standard, one with the three-part hall they belong to would have 5 thousand 464 square meters. The new school according to these standards that we have here without a pool which is otherwise very expensive for construction and maintenance will have 6000 624 square meters. And in order to build a school for 20 classrooms for 460 students, you're going to need it at today's price somewhere according to what the ministry says is, so it's about a thousand euros a square for construction and 500 euros for equipment will only take about 50 million kuna to build. So we're talking about an ideal school that costs a one-way class of 460 students 50 million kuna. But for example, in this ideal school in these state standards, it says that you have to have one square meter of dining room per student, which means you have to have, for example, 460 square meters of dining room per student at that new school. There is no school today and it is impossible to meet these standards by 2020. Furthermore, in preschool education, it was said very easily that they must all be fulfilled by 2011 and 2012. Well, of course, that applies to local self-government. Where there is no responsibility of the state, the deadlines are cut. Where there is a responsibility of the state there are deadlines in 2022. I suggest we announce by the end of our term that we have the World Cup of Knowledge and say that we have to make all schools by the end of our term and we have to find the money, because if we can find it for stadiums, then I think we can find it for schools as well. And by doing so, we will send them a clear message to those to whom we are sending the message, which is that knowledge is most important, that only knowledge will draw the country out of the crisis or ensure the desired growth rates. Now, how much it pays for local self-government to invest in education. Here we are in Koprivnica County and the city has built a new "Fran Galović" High School with a sports hall. If we were building a sports hall like in Zadar, like in Osijek, as in Varazdin the state would give us 50% of the funding, this is how we are now competing for some crumbs and it is reportedly only the county will get some money for this year to pay for that school. And you see, it's a special school because two world magazines, a prominent World Architecture Magazine, made a presentation of that school on 15 pages. I ask you about what facility in Croatia is being shown in world-famous magazines for architecture. The Croatian architects' society declared the school the best architectural work in the past year. What did we get as a reward? Nothing. The Ministry ignores us, ignores our country, refuses to give us any support, and on the other hand, it says here that we will meet some standards by 2022. We should support and reward those who invest in knowledge, those who take a step forward, those who give a new vision and perspective to this country and leave professional sport to the sponsors let the sponsors worry about it. And we need a very clear message from here that is more important to us knowledge and education than professional sports. This will only be achieved if there will be billions of kuna in the budget for next year, which will ensure that at the end of our term we really play the World Knowledge Championship, in schools that will be licensed that year according to European criteria and not that we have only stadiums and handball halls in the Republic of Croatia that meet the FIFA license, IHF or UEFA and schools are in very cost or poor condition and we give a 15-year perspective when we do so. Then most of us will no longer sit in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7057	Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7058	A colleague Mršić mentioned the quotas for enrolment in colleges. I'd like to mention something about enrollment quotas in high school. In fact, it happened that for high school, 59 thousand seats were opened for first grade. At the same time, the fact is that elementary schools finish 48 thousand students. So the difference is 11,000. It's just that schools are starting to fight for students. We've got 11,000 more seats in high schools in the first grade than we've had in eighth grade. Eighth grade. At the same time, this is why there is an ever smaller enrolment in industrial and crafts schools, in those professions that are very much needed in this country, and the government has shown the need to import about 6 thousand and 800 profile workers, those who finish industrial and crafts schools. I'm afraid that this excess of 11 thousand places, which opens in relation to the number that finished primary school, will lead to a disturbance in quality and standards that have existed so far at the time of enrolment in high school. And they're gonna suck out potential students of industrial and crafts schools, because let's say high school and other schools start beating up for students to fill their classrooms. And it seems to me that there may be a big problem in the perspective that shows the need for this, for that type of workforce that we're not able to educate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7059	Replicate response, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7060	Well, you see, colleague Jurovic, we would indeed be much easier for us to know what we are going from and what our goals are. Last year, in Croatia, she graduated from all high schools, so colleges and all high schools somewhere around 17 and 18 thousand diplomats. It's about 0.3% of the population. If we currently have somewhere below 8 or about 8% of the high education in the Republic of Croatia, when we are going to reach some goal, and I thought that we have a goal, for example, that we have 15% of the high education in the population structure, because there is a very clear correlation between education and the structure of the population and economic development, which is, for example, a higher percentage of highly educated, these are growth rates higher in a country. However, as we do today, which is that the minister says he will not cut the quotas, instead of saying that.../The speaker has shut down, and has re-engaged./... those who will in the future, those who will have, parents who will be able to pay for it. Because not only have the quota of enrollment not only increased on the ministry's burden, but the tuitions have increased in some colleges, those who do not fall in such poor and small quotas as are given by the ministry, but they must pay for so-called. Personal needs, I think that's a personal need. So doesn't society have the need to have a highly educated citizen? And not that I'm a citizen only needs to be highly educated and contribute to the development of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7061	And the next, next replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7062	You see, Mr. Gristle, if you had waited as mayor for these standards then you would never have made such a grand building, that high school with all the accompanying contents. 17, 18 years of HDZ authorities in the city of Zadar, no single school has been built, neither elementary nor high school, nor one single school. And five high schools are gone, there's, there's not a single hall and the air distance is only 200 meters away, but that's why the award gets a project that's going to crash, which the projectors take down and the Hall of Jasine. There's so much about it. And then I absolutely agree with you, as you say, that really these proposals, these standards, pedagogical standards, both in primary and secondary education and in preschool, are really one fantasy where there's an impression of something being done. And indeed, the government really knows exactly what's going to happen in 2028, '20, '19, but obviously for this information, for example, in the city of Zadar doesn't know. There and today the children go, the highest number of schools, precisely because of this devastating situation works in three shifts. After this, we're going to pass the law again, and then we're going to re-establish these laws, given the new laws, we're going to be re-branding new pedagogical standards. And so in a circle, creating an illusion of something being done. So again, that one gap between that perspective, between the reality that is fictionally created and the one that is truly defeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7063	Replicate response, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7064	Here, colleague Ingrid, I have to tell you we're not alone, we worked together with Koprivnica-Crission County, it would be hard to do this kind of project on our own and it's really a huge project because it's a school for one-way classes, for 900 students whose investment assessment was 84 million kuna. Here's the magazine one that put the front page on page 15. In it is described, the second is Domus, one of the most respectable journals for architecture which is also.../The speaker turned off, and then re-enabled./...in one education facility, he writes in such a very commendable way in the world and promotes at least this way in terms of Croatia's tendency to seek knowledge and that he wants to create, not only an education space, but also that the area where children are educated in itself gives a message, and here he gives a message, that this is the new architecture, architecture that will mark the beginning of architecture and mark the beginning of architecture, i.e. to be a sign of the development of architecture at the beginning of this century in Croatia. And I am pleased to have written about Croatian architecture in the world through one of the schools that is built in Koprivnica, in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7065	Thank you. One notice. The meeting of the Committee on Economy will be held today at 14:00 in the "Janka Draskovica" hall, chairman of the Committee Dragan Kovacevic. At 14 o'clock, therefore, a meeting of the Committee on Economy. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7066	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For a very long time, we have been waiting too long to adopt pedagogical standards in Croatia and I have to show my satisfaction that they finally reached the Croatian Parliament. It's a good thing we finally decided to say what kind of kindergartens and schools we want in this country. It is good that we will bring a standard that will apply equally to all and that will set the standard for schools under which they simply should not go no matter what part of Croatia they are in. It is also good that standardising working conditions in all schools will give us a more realistic assessment of school performance. And I'd end up here with a good one. I know that the proposal of the pedagogical standard has also passed the verification through the public debate of the professional bodies and institutions, i.e. it has sought to reach a consensus of relevant expert bodies and bodies, since it is about kindergartens and schools of the strategic document. However, units of local and regional self-government that have not been forgotten by founders and kindergartens and schools have not been given insight into the proposal for a pedagogical standard, and I do not think that this is good at all. The second thing I have to say is that I was expecting to set up, I would say, a reasonable period of time to level the conditions of schooling. But the time frame for the full application of pedagogical standards in schools is in 2022, and that, gentlemen, is neither reasonable nor ambitious, and I don't think it makes much sense. Because this means that it will be another 15 years before the full application of pedagogical standards in all parts of Croatia. In other words, only in 2023 will education be available to all students under equal conditions, so I ask why such a deadline? Why do we think it is not possible to do so earlier, so Croatia is lagging behind with ourselves towards developed European countries throughout the system of education and education. We like this, I'd say snail steps not if we couldn't outrun anyone. We cannot reach any of the countries we want to measure and be in any competition of knowledge. I ask you, and where will eventually be, where will be modern knowledge in 15 years when we fully set, or establish standards for schools. The fundamental problem with this pedagogical standard is that it doesn't antagonize, it stretches to 15 years. So we should and should have brought and implemented standards not for 15 years, but yesterday and this kind of dynamic raises serious questions about the government's thesis, that Croatia wants to make it a knowledge society. Because it's easy to have a principled attitude, but when it comes to operationalization, then you can see that this government is talking one thing and the other is talking. I hope you gentlemen give this up. But if you insist on such a long-term plan, I would insist that a three-year evaluation be done. But not to be confused, I don't think the department should do it. I think it should be an independent body, someone who in three years' time will tell us if the standard we've adopted meets the needs of a modern society we hope to pursue. Third. The proposal for a pedagogical standard simply does not reflect the entire education system. He does not deal with issues that are objectively important today and very much present in society. He doesn't deal with what we can call a society upgrade. If you don't understand what I'm talking about, here's an example. The proposal for a pedagogical standard does not mention a single article of the child’s education and care in the family. What about the possibility of an alternative organization of education and care within the family. The fact is that this shape exists and the state has absolutely no interference on it. And not just that. There is no professional supervision of persons involved in this activity. This activity today falls within the field of the gray economy, and in fact it shouldn't be. As far as I know a few years ago, a very high-quality nanny education project was developed that proposed this form of care. I don't know what happened to that project. Fourth. I have the impression that in the standard for kindergartens and elementary schools a better elaborate educational part, and in the standard for high school, a more technical part. So, one that refers to space, equipment, but too little or nothing about perfecting teachers in quality checking, teaching teachers and quality checking. I think it's an obsession that, under the development of the education system, we primarily mean investing in buildings and the equipment of obsessions of the last century, and in that, this pedagogical standard I would say is completely, completely not modern. It would make sense if it was brought 25 years ago. The world is globalizing. We have an uncontrollable flow of ideas, knowledge, lifelong education, and we think the computer at school is a developmental shift that should stop our breath. Well, kids are coming to school today, and they're doing IT and they're communicating with the iPod. Thus, the pedagogical standard sees the infrastructure it wants to raise to a higher level. But I'm curious when we have it, whether it will meet the needs of modern society. What Professor Radman was trying to explain for the Mediterranean Institute in Split, so some understood, and some did not, it is not a warehouse of scientific equipment but scientific thoughts. We can say the same about schools. Who doesn't understand? I don't think he's on the right track. I find this pedagogical standard vaguely, insistantly, incompletely processed gifted students and students with difficulties. As for the gifted and their identification. I'll just touch some of the elements. This Article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. But I wonder who's running that I.D.? Who determines and develops programs for working with gifted students without saying that training of teachers and professional associates is necessary for the design and implementation of the programme. Monitoring the advancement of gifted students is related to the existence of a register of gifted students. At which levels this register should exist. In the UK, for example, there is a register at national level. Are we gonna follow the presents through high school? Itd. I think it is of paramount importance to develop a special national system for gifted students as well as a coordination centre from local to state level. It is an experience well known in European countries. As for children with disabilities, may I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a national strategy for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015. I understand that it was brought by another ministry. But couldn't you agree? Well, agreeing with you is usually good for you. What does the strategy say? The national strategy explicitly states that it is necessary to provide infrastructure, i.e. support for students with developmental difficulties. Among other things, through the creation of a network of reference centres and through the establishment of mobile, professional teams and the provision of assistants in the teaching process. If we didn't put that into pedagogical standard, then I really don't know where we're going. And finally, something that's simply an alarm alarm, it's social workers. Statistics suggest that during 2006, 82 children and minors tried to commit suicide and that suicides are the result of growing depression. And they should be trusted when they say that the blame for black statistics is borne by an underinterested society. Imagine that this standard proposal does not provide for a social worker to necessarily be a member of the expert team. That's inadmissible. If it stays that way, it means that we are truly for the problems of our young people uninterested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7067	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7068	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, and this side of the hall was very anxious to expect pedagogical standards, looked forward to them, and thought that they would bring major changes to the system of education and education. However, they are brought unfoundedly, they are conceptually and textually confused, they are unspoken and they are largely, or at least part more harmful than useful. Pedagogical standards should be an excerpt from legal provisions and curricula, i.e. curricula and programmes. Both are in progress, and according to that agenda that we received from the rule of law dynamics by summer we should also pass the Education Act, and very likely by the new academic year and new curricula and programmes. It is therefore almost absurd to adopt pedagogical standards today and to change them in the fall by adapting them to a new legal solution. In this sense, they are also in fact a kind of compromise and conceptually unimaginable because they represent a kind of combination of standards and legal solutions by compensating the shortcomings of existing laws. In pedagogical standards you will find, in this proposal of pedagogical standards you can find a whole series of elements that belong to per definition in the legal provisions on education. The second or third, however you like, is a conceptal and elemental dissent. It's about standards. Standards are like industrial standards something to be followed. And the standards say that the height of the classroom should be between 3 meters and 3 meters and 20 centimeters. This means that a classroom that has 2 meters and 95 centimeters, or a classroom that has 3 meters and 25 centimeters, can't be a classroom. It is a concept misunderstanding or a concept misunderstanding, as the norms have forgotten that schools are no longer state-owned but that they are the founders of schools in the county and municipalities. We therefore feel that something else had to be prescribed. Minimum terms, minimum terms. And that local community that has conditions for better than minimum conditions, then let it do better, not restrict it and resuscitate it. The misunderstanding and disagreement also applies to pedagogy. Pedagoggy is a more or less normative science of the 19th century, on which the socialist concept of education was heavily supported and which actually managed the education system precisely from the normative level. Thirty, forty years in the developed Western world, we're talking about educational sciences. Educational sciences that are multidisciplinary, that's why I'm talking about science, so we're talking about philosophy of education, sociology of education, psychology of education, the economy of education, and pedagogy is just one of their parts. And that is why we believe that the matter should not be called pedagogical, but should be the minimum conditions for pre-school education activities, primary education activities or secondary education activities, for God's sake. We've been like this for a few decades, back to what's going on in the world today. And if we've already warned that, they have to be about pedagogy, then let them be about activity. with pedagogy, not with employees pedagoses. So not a professor, say guitars or a professor of English or a professor of philosophy would be a pedagogue, but rather a certain, namely a pedagogical activity. And therefore, if the standards must already be pedagogical in the opinion of the promoter, they should be called pedagogical rather than pedagogical. We discussed these documents twice on the board. And we brought them back the first time. We brought them back to work. The promoter put them back in procedure in ten days, we thought it took about a month, maybe two to complete them, with minimal changes. The text remained unspeakable, inconsistent, unequal. I'll give you just a few examples that have already been discussed here. So, for example, Article 49(2) tells you: "natural lighting is the most significant psychological and physiological factor for working conditions in kindergarten." So we really suggest that the proposer patents this concept internationally. Because if that's the most important psychological and physiological factor, then you don't need aunts, uncles and everything else. Then it's just natural enough to make everything work in kindergarten. The second difficulty I see with this formulation is that it's not really children in the focus of interest but aunts and uncles because it's the most important factor for working conditions. So for those who work, not for those who enjoy doing the office. .... /The speaker shall be turned off and re-enabled./... when Article 3 paragraph 8. talks about the rational structure of the registration areas. In which the rationality of the establishment of the enrolment areas does not consist of focusing on the student and meeting all student needs rather than taking advantage of the existing school facilities. That's rationality, that's what we're proposing. In the definition of the grade of primary school standards in Article 2 you have the definition of now one department in which it is said, the class group of students is the approximate age of the same class of life. Which means that students of rich and poor parents can't go to the same class. What is this about, and we are under the Constitution of the social state of colleagues and colleagues. Rocks. Who knows what the daily life of all of us will look like in 15 years, what the school will look like, whether we get textbooks on memory contact or still get textbooks printed. Do we need triple plates, etc. etc. There are no standards on IT classrooms and there is no telling how many students have to be minimal to one computer. We therefore believe that the text and the proposal are premature and hasty. We are afraid that some political interest that we cannot accurately discern has again overcome the profession and therefore we think that it would be much better for these standards to return to work, to pass another round of discussion and only then to return to the procedure to the Parliament, and, if possible, together with the bill which is being prepared anyway, and I hope that they will come within the promised deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7069	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Flego said that this proposal for a standard that is ahead of us is more harm than good. That's just not true. No article in these proposals is harmful, it does not harm anyone, nor students, nor professors, nor staff. No one. So you can't say that this proposal that's ahead of us is more harmful than beneficial. He is absolutely useful for both schools and children and for all of us. Finally introduces order something that hasn't been done in the last 20 years. I don't know how long you've been in epiphany, in these, at these levels, so preschool, preschool and high school, but say something like that after this proposal, I'll look back at it later, it's really totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7071	A few replicas. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7072	I don't think it's only harmful but that scandalous introduction of social... A student. [[You don't understand.]] I'm really impressed with that. That's what the board said about it, but there really has to be something done to change that. Mr. Secretary of State if we accept that, we will accept something directly in the coalition with the Croatian Constitution, but what is in coalition with all our human principles that would mean that some clause will be introduced, that censorship will be property like those geniuses who claimed that politics can be dealt with by those who have so many and so many euros in bank accounts, it will still turn out that only rich children with rich children can go to classes, and poverty with the poor. That's a really bad thing, and that's a kind word. That's scandalous!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7073	Replication response, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7074	Thank you for mentioning one of the harmful elements. I think that unedited and unimaginative professionally problematic text is harmful professionally and politically. Politics is a sphere not only of action and negotiation. Politics is the sphere and education of those whose addresses, especially high homes and high bodies. And I'd like to keep the semi-products out of this house, because that's when we find ourselves incompetent and incompetent and doing more damage than good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7075	Next replica, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7076	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say with a replica, because Mr. Representative said that the standards are more damage than they are using, which is that it's better to withdraw than to bring. I don't think that fits the truth, because these standards shouldn't be seen as one cemented document. And the MP also said that the law should be passed before then, the standard. I think it is entirely wrong, because our work on an educated system and its development of compliance with European standards and putting students at the centre of attention is just strengthening these standards, and these standards give another responsibility to Croatian policy first of all to come and to one shift at a specified time, to define new school workers, to create new teams, first-class students, to define a series of conditions of these students from gifted ones, from those with special needs, and all these standards do, and I would like to say that it is nevertheless one expert concentration not only of experts who would be HDZski but experts in Croatia, because these rules, or these results, are the result of broad professional discussions that we have had in recent years, and I think that these standards are useful, that they will improve Croatian school, but I repeat this is not a cemented situation, but it is really difficult to know today what an educated man will look like for 30 years, but we must be able to be in this capacity and to be able to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7077	Replication response, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7078	I agree with my colleague very much, except I only have a few differences. I didn't know that experts were shared on HDZ and others, but anyway. Secondly, after the experts have discussed certain texts, you can read the stenogram, and then you will see what he has said. Second, after the experts finished their work, there were two more, three hands that covered what the experts had said, or oversaw what the experts had said. The way the student was placed at the heart of this interest, I illustrated it with several examples. But in fact, all of this together is quite a consistent performance and quite a consistent concept that is expressed and said that when we build Borongaj, we're actually going to build a new Harvard. We build infrastructure, we build instruments, we build buildings, and we think it's quality by itself, and it's not. The whole thing is in people, because whenever the bell rings, whether it's in the class, whether it's at the university, then the teacher and teacher are left alone with students and students. And good will be instruction only and only as much as there is equipment, but how good and excellent teachers will be to educate these disciples and disciples, that is, how much they themselves will be educated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7079	And the Honorable Mr. Representative, Zvonimir Mršić, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7080	Well, colleague Flego, I'd really like to draw attention to what you said was a conceptual failure. You see here very much in preschool education standards is prescribed for every 20 children as much as a KV cook and a PKV cook, which I find completely absurd. I don't see any correlation between the PKV cookbook and the preschool child's pedagogical standard in kindergarten. Well, then it's said that you have to have two and a half cooks and two and a half PKV cooks. I don't know how you can have two-and-a-half cooks and two-and-a-half PKV cooks in this. So let's say that if you have 3,000 square feet of outer space, you have to have a full-time employee. It's like there's no outsourcing, like there's no one who can provide a favor, like a bone of grass in a kindergarten. Therefore, indeed, the standards on one side are fully defined, imagine on 160 children you must have one KV cook and one and a half PKV cook, but therefore between 11 and 20 educational groups, which is 200 children, you must have one expert associate more. So, according to these pedagogical standards, it's extremely important to us how many meals will be cooked by the PKV cook, rather than how many logos, and whether there will be logos in one city or several kindergartens at all, and the logo is, for example, one of the most valuable professions and one of the most needed professions in preschool education and in primary school education of the lower classes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7081	Replication response, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7082	Thank you very much. I, in fact, don't mind being prescribed a minimum amount of cook, but I'm surprised and worried that the most sophisticated part of the standard is actually the construction part. This was done by engineers, and they showed it and, in fact, it was embedded in all other standards, and we don't have standards on basic literacy from information and communication technologies, that we don't have a proper differentiation between cabinets, let's say, physics and age chemistry, for lower age students and for higher age students, etc., etc. So, and there is once again the indeterminateness and lack of this document, and these are the reasons that lead me to that conversation that I mentioned in the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7083	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7084	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues and colleagues, here, following this debate today on pedagogical standards, I must tell you that I was surprised by the invitation of my colleague Jerkovic who said to give up these standards because it is better for Croatia to give up. It's not, pal, it's better. I've been in the education system for 30 years. Thirty years. I started working in '78. years of time, so-called Shuvar's reforms, Šuvar's reforms that destroyed Croatian education, then education. I have to tell you why. This is exactly what education has completely expelled from the education school, to which we are all calling today and we need to return it. That's why we have big problems, because we've come from these foundations. The goal was information to the student, information, information. Thousands of small information to the student. It was a school program back then. And from education and further education, from out-of-state competences at school, absolutely nothing. That's what I'm telling you from personal experience, from the experience of a professor who worked for 20 years in high school. And indeed, from the post of professors, directors to the state administration, to the head of the education system, Head of Social Activities. And really, I have to tell you that I'm happy by these pedagogue standards, because I've been through everything and everything in my professional way. And why do I enjoy standards? Because in a whole series of those successes that we've done in education reform, I'd say as one of the final points is to just adopt pedagogical standards. If they could be more conceptually better, that would be something to talk about. But they bring above all the criteria of the structure and kindergartens and the network of schools, ways of getting a network of schools, the size of educational groups, classrooms, standards for employees, regardless of what we now banalize this about cooks or teachers. The number of teachers and teachers and teachers is important, including the number of maids and cooks in kindergarten. They also provide a criterion for the burden of students with satin, professional training and promotion of teachers, spatial conditions and standards that are extremely important. Some colleagues today talked about building new schools. I met in my practice building a few new schools. You know what your biggest problem is? When you go to build one school of optimal size according to the number of grade departments, then you didn't have the standards how many classic classrooms that school has to have, how many cabinets that are, how many spaces, corridors, heights, widths on the look of us here might be funny right now but in practice very important because you are rich in environment and community. I'll remind us all that in 2000, we decentralized education but we didn't have the courage to bring exactly this kind of pedagogical standards, so then you have a rich community that builds a school, a grand building that isn't even in function, but the main thing is that it's big, that it's modern, that it's glassy and maybe it's not functional. You have a smaller community that has less money, so it's building a really optimal school, but it still doesn't fit some standards of education because you have different schools. This is especially evident in high school education where you have a general high school that has mostly theoretical courses and general education courses, and you have different vocational schools from crafts, industrial and four-year technical schools with us. So these are really the differences that we have to think about, and these standards are exactly what they prescribe. Some things may seem unnecessary to us now, but you will see that in practice it will be very useful. What do I look forward to in these standards especially? Because we've confessed and realized that we have very few, very small professional school associates. This statistics shows us, I won't repeat it but it appalled me that 243 children are going to one expert associate in kindergartens in Croatia. So that's exactly what local self-government units, cities and municipalities that are founding children's kindergartens should be forced to hire professional associates. Let's not look at ideal conditions. We have to look at the conditions where the poorer units of local self-government, small municipalities that simply form kindergartens because of their needs because they have a need but to save on employees, so on salaries because they don't have the ability to hire a large number of employees they save most of the time on whom? Not on the raiser, they're saving on an expert associate, and that's a big problem. That's why we need to prescribe this, and that's why I say hello to this. As far as elementary schools are concerned, there's something else I'm looking forward to in preschool education. I'm happy to have this kid in the so-called "I'm happy." preschool. Most of the time, I know from experience that cities and municipalities finance or county help to finance the preparation of children who do not attend kindergartens in so-called. Preschool at 70 hours a year. This pedagogical standard prescribes 250. I think that this is extremely necessary and that it will also make cities and municipalities, some cities and municipalities, I have to generalise, I don't want to highlight anyone, that they are made public and that they really realize that this social concern, this public need in preschool education is very important to their role and their activity. We tend to ignore that for now, so we have money for everything else except just to prepare the children for preschool. As for pedagogical standards in primary school education, I think this is a reduction in the number of classrooms per school, so the optimal school is very good, that the reduction in the number of students to a minimum of 14 and 20, respectively, is very good because these students with difficulties will also be limited to three in some classrooms. We know that it really takes a lot of hard work and hard work in a class suit to work with children who have difficulty. They need special attention, developmental difficulties. It is also important to me in these pedagogical standards for elementary schools, which is introduced in the 40th swim and cycling lesson. I'll tell you, I come from the middle, from the city of Sisak who's had an Olympic pool for 20 years. We are fortunate to have built a large Olympic swimming pool twenty years ago, and regardless of pedagogical standards or anything we have brought through the city's public needs programme in our primary schools, we have introduced swimming training before it was introduced into the programme, so into the national curricula, into the current primary education programme. We also encouraged other schools in our county, so the schools from Kutina, Novska, to pay for transportation to primary school for swimming training and this proved extremely good. We're a town on three rivers and it's really good for kids to learn to swim in elementary school. These pedagogical standards, as well as the standard that by 2022, we will really now have pools in elementary schools that are so far away. It may be a far future for us now, but believe me, that future is looking forward to it. And something I still have to say about the high school pedagogical standard, highlighted as something that's specific, certainly, that's making these unique standards for high school because at first I said there's no single high school program and that's why it's certainly harder to make these standards. I am also pleased that we are introducing computer maintenance experts and other informationians because so far it has proved that we have to have such an expert, that schools have paid him part-time and now he will be constantly employed which is good and certainly with a whole series of leaders of those who have been here from the head of professional practice, I am the head of practice outside the school, and through the board we have proposed another specific one I would have told the head and this is the head of the sports hall where there is a large sports hall because you have a whole series of examples where the gym is bipartial or tripartial with a theatre used by three or four schools located directly near that hall and in that hall is organized for three or four schools. Of course, such a school should also have a headmaster. Here, I think this, with the unification and training of the agency for all teachers, directors and professional staff, should certainly be a significant step towards the adoption of these pedagogical standards both in pre-school and primary education, as well as in secondary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7085	Thank you. A few replicas. First, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7086	Dear colleagues, Roksandić, with the general satisfaction of these standards, you said among other things that these standards also standardise all the conditions in which teaching takes place, so you expressed special satisfaction with the fact that it will finally be defined what classrooms, or specialized cabinets, look like. I'm asking you to find me in the standard for primary school where certain cabinets are defined. Except that they are numbered who exist, words of equipment, as they are equipped in standards no. And that's the problem that warns especially some colleagues from local self-government, who say that what they're just going to build, how they're going to equip them, it just doesn't exist, only these cabinets are numbered. And two. You say you're very pleased that everything is defined and that you know the exact conditions now. But at the same time, you accept the formulation optimally. I mean, it's a very common formulation for these standards that says that, for example, it's the optimal size of a classroom of 14 to 28 students. Tell me, what standard is that? Is the standard 14 and 28 the same? And the goal is to be the same. And you think that's a good thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7087	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Marija Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7088	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague speaking of classroom standards, I haven't forgotten anything. We're on the verge of bringing national curricula. You can't prescribe which cabinets and cabinets that didactic equipment you have, if you don't have a program. So, thinking about classroom standards I was thinking about spatial conditions. If you followed, on spatial terms, in that context. That's number one. What's under number two? Optimal. From 14 to 28. Normal. When in Article 1 or 2, I don't know by heart, I don't have time, you have schools, not only in the city of Zagreb, in the city of Sisak, Osijek, but you have schools in the hill-mounted area, schools of special state interest, schools on islands, where you may have 14 students in this, and where there will be an optimal school with 14 students. Or, possibly with eight grade departments. One at a time parallel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7089	Second replica. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7090	So you see, colleagues of Roksandić, one of the problems with these standards is that what really is the responsibility of local self-government should be now and immediately, and what is the responsibility of the state will be in 2022. You see, I'd like to hire two child psychologists and a logo in the town of Koprivnica. You know why I can't hire? They're not on the labour market. You know why there's no labour market? The coaster won't increase the odds on the fax to enroll children in psychology. So now two or three times as many children would be enrolled in psychology and we need child psychologists because children are exposed to various dangers and behavior is impaired. And we're going back in circles. You will accuse local self-government of not hiring professional associates you do not have in the labour market. You have 35 unemployed doctors in Croatia today and you need maybe 200. You need 72 pediatric teams in Croatia right now, you don't have any pediatricians on the labour market. Whose responsibility is that? Second. This is where you said, my colleague used to say the same thing about cabinets. You know, we're bringing in new standards for preschool education and education and elementary school, but for the first time ever we're bringing in high school, we really haven't had any standards and better education for now than none, I'll agree with you here. But our criticism is not meant not to bring it, but to really give ourselves enough time to include ourselves in it so that we can actually bring them to those who will be good. They're not as good as they're supposed to be. They're confusing, inconsistencies, at one point prescribing the amount of PKV cook to the number of children, and on the other hand, you don't know what a chemistry lab is, because there's still a school plan and a program for chemistry and biology, and then we'll prescribe it. Maybe in that cabinet that we said here that it must have 65 square feet won't fit that equipment. We may need water between every two tables, a source of gas and oxygen, and it doesn't say here that it should be in the physics cabinet. So, obviously, we've mixed up some sort of order. And I don't think it's a good idea for us to bring this up in one reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7091	Reply to the replica of Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7092	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Mrsic, I didn't charge local self-government, so maybe you got hit. That's number one. Secondly, I'll tell you, I agree with you on something, it's really hard to find a psychologist. It's really hard to find a pediatrician, a doctor, but you know where? He may go to work for you in Koprivnica, or at my place in Sisak, which is 50 km away from Zagreb. But, look, I believe that the mass of people who graduates from college, from this area of colleague Mršić, doesn't want to go out. And I agree with you that these people have little on the market. But I don't agree with you that we can't find them. Can't we? If I found a psychologist for Clay, for Clay, then you can find him for Koprivnica, don't bring me to that. Second. Also, you said we had time to bring these pedagogical standards. All those years are running out. I'm telling you I've been in the system for 30 years. If we had decentralized school in 2000, but we didn't have the courage to prescribe, let's say the rules by which these schools will work, let's once have the courage to do it. And at this moment when we have the courage to do so, when we have made pedagogical standards, my God, everything is subject to change, even they, and we will change them if necessary, so they are not an unwritten rule that cannot be changed. They're variable, they have to change. It would be strange if we hadn't changed the pedagogical standards we've adopted today in 2008, in 20 years. And why this 2022, where you say the state has set a far-reaching goal for others and is not for cities, municipalities or regionals. Because if you've watched and seen and read the conditions that we're going to achieve in 2022, they're the pools I mentioned. Well, we won't expect to be able to make swimming pools in 2, 3 or even 5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7093	Next replica, Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would refer to that part of the debate, Mrs. Rocksandic, about children with disabilities. You said, it says in the text, that the number of children in the class is reduced if a child with difficulties attends that class. But I think that if it went the wrong way here, every child with difficulties doesn't have such difficulty that it should be a reduced class. A child who is intellectually healthy and has physical damage, so he needs an assistant who does not necessarily and specifically require the involvement of teachers around the student himself. So, and I think that's where it started from the wrong approach, that a medical model was used, which is not good for the education system at all. Here I would also ask you State Secretary to consider this whole story about these standards. So, not from the position of the medical model, but from the position of children's and human rights. So by introducing a teaching assistant to help a child like that physically. So, and there are also children who have other damages and are not necessarily a longer need for teachers around the student himself. So, rather than all those accompanying services that should be in the standards, which are other services, I will discuss in my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7095	Reply to the replica of Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7096	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I don't know if a colleague gave a line to me or to the secretary of state, did she speak to the secretary of state. But I really think that three children with disabilities is in one class what should be perhaps as difficult as possible and about such children I agree with you that each child is special to itself. Any difficulty may not be the same, but it is a difficulty and it is very difficult for me or anyone to tell about whether the undersighted child is a greater difficulty or a child in a wheelchair, a child in a difficult movement. So I think that a teacher who has such a child in his class, and I know a thousand of my acquaintances who have such children in their class who are not special, who are children who are capable, who can do the same but through the difficult conditions that they still need special attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7097	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7098	Dear colleague Roxandic. You also talked about preschool education and kindergartens and you said that these measures, these pedagogical standards will force local administrations and self-government to improve compared to earlier. Since many local administrations and self-governments can hardly form kindergartens. For example, I speak the County of Brod-Posavisk where 26 municipalities and 2 cities have 6 kindergartens, so at that age for kindergartens. Furthermore, when you speak, you said you were from Sisak. So I have a municipality also in your area in Sisak-Moslavina County as well as in Brod-Posavina that has a budget of about 3 million kuna, even less than 3 million kuna. Let's say in Brod-Posavina, the municipality... The municipality of Gundinci is an extremely agricultural municipality, and in your county as far as I know there are from Kukuruzar, Dvor, Divusa, Unčana, Žirovac etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking you, you said you brought a psychologist to Clay which is nothing weird. The clay is relatively close to Zagreb, developing relatively well, thank God. But when a Gjirovac or some kind of Divusha or Bebrin or my Gundance will come or how the local administration or the Gundic community will be able to bring in a psychologist, a pedagogue, a logo, and there's still no kindergarten for it. Namely, how it is meant to help these municipalities, local administrations, and self-government to form at all. I'm telling you, in the area of Brod-Posavina County, we have 26 municipalities and 2 cities and we have six kindergartens. So it's not just a matter of ordering the law that the municipality must have kindergarten and all those other conditions. You also talked about the fact that many local administrations and self-governments do not avoid, but because of the lack of financial resources, they only provide room for kindergarten, and that children are cut off in that sense, precisely this pedagogogogical, psychologist, logod. How do you mean, then, how do you plan to improve that standard at all if the budget of the municipality is so small?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7099	Reply to the replica of Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look, buddy, I think you've gone a little too far. This is not about pedagogical standards. I'll tell you something, though. It's a unit of local self-government whether it can start a kindergarten or not. All children have the same right, but you also have different ways and models that preschool education can be conducted. I'll tell you the last example in my county. You mentioned Žirovac and Divusha. They're small places for you. They have a hundred inhabitants, so they're no example. The municipality of Gvosd is a special state-of-the-art care community that responded to the ministry's competition, into the fund, and got incentivizing funds, and you know what she did? Expanded the activity of the primary school for one or two groups of kindergartens, will employ the breeder, will use the professional service. She won't have a principal or a cook or a housekeeper because she's inside the school as much as possible under such specific conditions. But these are specific conditions like I don't know enough space where you're from, so all these little places. I know something about Brod-Posavina County that has a similar destiny as the fate of Sisak-Moslavina County. So, that particular part of the special state interest. So there are possibilities. Here are the conditions, conditions for those kindergartens that were founded by local self-government units. So there's a whole series of ways for colleagues to be in a small environment, so in a community that doesn't have enough resources, you still do preschool education. We are in Jasenovac conducting preschool education. We're in the Martini Vesa, these are the municipalities of my county because I know the situation, I'm conducting preschool education in a way that we do preschool education programs in some other institutions. So that's how you can do it. But look, you can't possibly have a ministry or what it orders these pedagogical standards. Well, these pedagogical standards aren't ordered where no kindergarten is established. I realized that you realized that you had to start a kindergarten. No, you don't have to start it. No city, no municipality has to start a kindergarten if they don't have the conditions. But it would be good for the need to conduct some other form of preschool education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7101	State Secretary Mr. Janjic called in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7102	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. First of all, I want to thank you all for taking part in this debate, and that number is as large as I can see and it shows a really great interest in education in the Republic of Croatia, which we all clearly say that we want it to be as best and to be by the highest standards, or as high as possible. Let me also point out that a lot of amendments have come to our table, and I hope that during this debate there will be more amendments so that we can consider and accept all your proposals in order to have state pedagogical standards as best as possible. And let me also remind you that this interest in education and raising standards in education has been particularly registered in recent years, so I want to remind you of that. Not only the state, but also numerous founders, of course I mean the counties and 33 cities that are the founders of our primary and secondary schools, of course we add to that the founders of preschool institutions, so the number of founders is much higher. So, until July 1st, the state built all these objects when we talk about this part, and since 1 July 2001, in this House, the law has been amended and one part of this system has been decentralised, not in all elements of course, and since then one part of the responsibility for everything is assumed by the founders. I will remind you that the government's obligation remains to build all those facilities that entered the state budget by that date, and a loan from the Central European Bank of the so-called Central European years has been opened. The C5 from which 142 buildings were built and not yet completed, has several facilities to be completed. And in addition, all that was in the state budget, the total number of these facilities was 286. After that, a number of founders in those decentralised funds provided for capital building, of course they were still planning, not only investment maintenance, but also capital building, and they built more school facilities and thus raised standards. I will add, since 1 July 2001, therefore no new capital facilities enter the state budget because the law no longer allows it, but that does not mean that the state is still not involved in the construction, so I will remind you that two more loans have been launched. One is the World Bank loan you know well about, especially you who are in the founder's administrations. It's 73 buildings. Some of them are starting to build, and some are in the preparation phase. And equally about a hundred buildings go from the loan of the European Investment Bank, so-called EIB2. When all of this is added to that by what you are planning at the founder level of decentralised funds, then I would dare say that in this time from 2000 until now, that much has been built and that much more will be built. If we compare it to some periods before, I'd say never before. Let me remind you of something else that was mentioned here. To greet her and it is a process that has obviously begun and we hope that it will be with the other founders. Dear Representative Mršić mentioned a public-private partnership, the construction of the "Fran Galović" gymnasium, we are truly happy and all support for such projects. So that's the county with 61%, the city with 39% made a great effort to reach a modern facility. Of course, there is also the commitment of the state as much as we provide, and we support it not only symbolically, not only morally, but also in other ways, and in the future we will do the same. So, I'll remind you here when it comes to the said high school that we've equipped cabinets that are very important for chemistry, biology, physics, that we've sent a computer classroom, that we've approved five new jobs in that gymnasium because, of course, it's increased and the surface and it's certainly a larger number of students. So here's what we're also following. Furthermore, I would just like to say, that, when it comes to Zadar, the public message which may not be the most accurate, respected representative of Anticevic-Marinovic, that, therefore, the construction of a technical school centre was launched in the term of office of 200 years, and in the next term it was completed, so these are state funds. 60 million kuna indeed, not just one modern school building, but an extremely well-equipped school building. We have no doubt that, of course, the county as the founder of secondary schools, the city as the founder of primary schools will certainly have plans and will build school facilities according to needs in the future. What I'd like to mention, anyway, and this is where the projection was mentioned, so we have the last data from 2006, 41 thousand 446 children were born. It will be the students we're talking about this year in the first grade of high school and it was actually a starting point, but it's always increased by a number of students coming from neighbouring countries and by a number of students who unfortunately, say, repeats the class. So in that projection, we've been taking care of our demographic image, and nothing's ever been done in our mind. And finally, to mention, the esteemed representative Jurjevic spoke about the so-called. enrolment quotas in the first grade of high school. Of course, the plan is always different from the realisation, it was always so and always will be, so, as a rule, the class has been 30 students, so as a rule, and based on it, schools and plans, so when they ask for the approval of their founders, that is to say, to support the founders in that, and the approval from the ministry we have always confirmed. However, there are not those 30 students everywhere but somewhere there are 21, there may be around 10 on the islands, so that the plan and the number that the respected representative Jurjevic mentioned really must always be different and always will be so. So you can't plan it exactly. What I want to point out is that we never limit unless there is a direct need for a record in certain occupations. There we have very good cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and also with the Chamber of Commerce that sometimes suggest that you may enter quotas where we have really surplus interests at the Employment Service to make sure that it is not enrolled every year as much as schools are looking for and indeed with them in one of the finest ways we agree. A number of schools enter one profession one year, so for the next few years, no, and that's how registration policy is actually done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7103	Thank you, secretary. We have two applications for correcting an incorrect quote. First of all, the Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7104	I would like to correct the secretary of state as far as Fran Galović High School is concerned. So it's all set up from a public private partnership, except for what the high school passed on from the old school, and then you just gave money to high school and crafts school, that what the high school had transferred to a new facility to get there. But the problem you see these standards is that the students of engineering and technical schools who are currently watching us up from the gallery will unfortunately not inherit anything from this except that it will be prescribed to reduce the number of students, but unfortunately not until the end, or at the beginning of next year, not even reduce it, and the problem is that we and these crafts and technical schools are not adequately equipped to meet precisely those challenges in the future, which is that these children are ready for the labour market, because after finishing high school, we still have to go through a three-year internship to, for example, become masters. Therefore, nothing is said in this matter at all in three years or four years, there are also four-year programmes in craft schools. And that's the problem, and we're really talking, and these standards apply to kids who were born last year, like you said, who in 15 years' time are going to go to high school, but I at least hope that by the end of the term, you'll increase the number of enrolment quotas to colleges, so that these students and students from the gallery can at least continue to study at higher and higher schools on the burden of the state, not on the burden of their parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7105	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7106	A fellow secretary of state said, and this is incorrect, as the government takes care of, this part of the sentence, about the demographic restoration, saying that about 40 are born in Croatia each year, namely 41 thousand children. But it's a negative population trend, because 50,000 die every year, and that's something that's alarming and worrying. For the last few years, a few years, years in a row, more people die than children are born. That's one thing and we all have to imagine together and find an adequate answer to this. And secondly, when I was saying that in Zadar in 18 years, no school was built, both basic and secondary, I stay because it's true. I was talking about building up by units of local self-government, and what you're saying is building a technical school centre that's true that this center was built by means during the coalition government, but it was done by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7107	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of the distinguished colleague Nadice eats.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7108	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. In my debate, I will only limit myself to the pedagogical standard of preschool education since there is a great interest in further discussions. The assessment of preschool education in the Republic of Croatia shows that preschool programmes, so the shorter preschool programmes and programmes, cover 55.12% of preschool children. These pedagogical standards plan to increase the coverage of preschool children to 60% in regular programmes, while preschooling to 98%. Unfortunately, though, the basic observation in the implementation of the preschool programme on the ground is its great inequality from the coverage of children, which is particularly reflected in the relation of the urban rural environment, then in the size of educational groups. There are still children's kindergartens in which one breeder comes from 25 to 35 children, and the main differences in the teaming of kindergartens are with professional associates, such as educators, psychologists, defecologists and logos. That is why when we talk about the pedagogical standard, first of all, we need to talk about the need for its unification, so to level the conditions in preschool education and in all local self-government units in Croatia. And the unifying of standards in preschool education would be the most effective way to involve the state in funding preschool institutions, so kindergartens. Because only in that case could this pedagogical standard be called state standard. This way, without a significant involvement of the state in financing this standard, he was merely declared a state, and in his realization he remained actually a local standard. In fact, more than half of the 594 preschool institutions currently in Croatia have established units of local self-government, so our municipalities and cities. For a certain number of these municipalities and cities, especially those of weaker fiscal capacity, these kindergartens and cisterns are a huge financial burden as they eat up to a third of the budget of those municipalities. It is precisely that in pre-school education since it is fully funded by local self-government units, the differences that exist in the financial strength are seen, and thus also in the development of certain Croatian regions. I think respected MPs and advocates, that our children, at the very beginning of their lives, must not feel these differences, they have the right to equal chances. Unfortunately for our country, children are only starting to exist since the seventh year of life when they are involved in compulsory primary education. Until then, children are concerned about parents and local communities, and during this period we all know, children adopt the most educational content that will define them as members of the social community in their lifetime. There are some interesting suggestions in this program. One of these, therefore, interesting, is working with children of 6 months of life, therefore, with children of a younger man's age, which I believe is very interesting to young parents, primarily mothers who will not need to use maternity leave until one year, but the first six months, because after six months they will be able to provide quality care for their child. On the one hand, it is about mothers who will not use additional maternity leave for up to a year for material reasons, therefore, because they have low maternity benefits, while on the other hand it is about mothers who will not use maternity leave for up to a year because of their own career. Therefore, mothers are employed in tasks of greater expertise that do not allow, therefore, for a longer period of time, because in this case a step is lost in professional progress. I would also like to make two very specific proposals related to the pedagogical standard in preschool education very briefly below. The first proposal refers to children of the Roma national minority, because such children have in Međimurje County relatively more than in other counties. In fact, in the National Pedagogical Standard, it is proposed that children members of the Roma population who are not covered by regular preschool education programmes will be covered by preschools two years before school and for at least 250 hours a year. Experiences in working with the Roma preschool population in Međimurje County show that the inclusion of Roma children in preschool is two years before school definitely too late. Because within two years, they fail to develop appropriate language competences that would allow them quality participation in the educational and educational process performed in Croatian. I therefore propose the compulsory inclusion of Roma national minority children in the regular preschool education programme since the third year of life. First of all, because of the development of language competences, because this age is optimal for the adoption and development of speech, i.e. language. I suggest, of course, and an increase in the fund hours, because the estimated 250 hours a year isn't enough. The profession thinks that this should be a minimum of 5 hours a day, i.e. over a 10-month period, it would be a total of a thousand hours, i.e. approximately four times more than is foreseen today, i.e., as proposed by the pedagogue standard. These pre-school programmes for children of Roma national minorities should, of course, be financed by the state to the greatest extent, since units of local, or regional self-government do not have financial powers for this. We've heard about it on several occasions from my predecessors. And it is certain that the education of this population is by far the most effective way and the way of their complete socialization. The second proposal refers to gifted children. With regard to preschool education and the education of gifted children, I suggest that teachers work with potentially gifted children to be competent for a particular area of child’s gift, so that they should prove that competence to licenses, i.e., certificates of additional education and training for such work. Of course, this involves defining how to acquire the necessary competences, as well as defining the type of documents that these competences will prove to be. Why is all this necessary? Because I'm convinced that if we just detect a potentially gifted child and don't provide him with a trained educator, we haven't actually done anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7109	Thank you very much. Replica application, distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I answered with a replica because you'd like an answer. counterpart Jelash said in her debate that all children should be equal and all children should have equal chances in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, you said in the debate, that those municipalities that have a small budget, that it's impossible to achieve that. And here, my colleague Jelash, I fully agree with you. But that there is no one but, because I am now going to talk about the City of Zagreb which has the largest budget of all the cities in Croatia, which is about 10 billion. So I'll tell you about the fourth one in the City of Zagreb that has no kindergarten. I'll tell you about that neighborhood that there's one elementary school, and that's exactly where I'm going to say, in the Cup King, a primary school that has a ceiling of reeds and mud. Tell me, can the City of Zagreb be justified? A city with the largest budget of 10 billion. Secondly, for eight years, the SDP has been in power in that city and I think it should be seen for once. I don't know why today so many negative arrows are pointed against this pedagogical standard. Maybe because it's really going to have to be these cities that have financial opportunities, they're going to have to comply with these standards. And these children who attend schools in such classrooms and schools that today in the 21st century have ceilings of reeds and mud, and children who go, 20km of mothers lead to kindergartens. But, one more thing, you can't get a place in the City of Zagreb in kindergarten, especially this border area. Because as soon as a child is born, parents should already enroll in a kindergarten to get a place for when and when the time comes to get a place. So, where are the problems? The problems are the biggest in the City of Zagreb. One small municipality, the neighbouring municipality of my district is the Municipality of Pisarovina, has a kindergarten, which has a far smaller budget. Well, I would ask you to show an example to the City of Zagreb of what kind of pedagogical standards you would bring and have had time for eight years to show what school should look like and how much school you should build. You've built only one kindergarten and no school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7111	... MPs, reply to the replica. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7112	Dear colleagues, it is very difficult to correct the inheritance. So this is certainly done intensively, and what I point out again, and what I said on several occasions in my debate, is the need for unification, therefore, at the level of the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7113	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of the distinguished representative of counterpart Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7114	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will limit myself to the pedagogical standard of primary education. Using the wording itself means that it must be clear, concrete and realistic in practice, but there are several examples that the proposed teaching standard is not. For example, the organisation teaches Article 7(3) says: "A teacher’s or an expert classmate of the school for the group up to a maximum of 14 students is required for teaching outside the school space.". Since there are up to 32 students in our departments in many schools, at least another teacher is needed for each student out of the school space. How to ensure this by schools with 30 departments, where to take teachers or professional associates and how to pay them for such a type of activity. Then, the class section of Article 8(1) says: "The number of students in class class 20 and at least 14, up to 28 students is optimal.". At first glance for each commendation, but I ask the question of how an eighth grade field school will function, for example, with me Šemnica Donja at the elementary school "Ludevit Gaj" in Krapina, where in this school year there are 10 students in the fifth grade, sixth grade 10 students, seventh grade 9 students, eighth grade 10 students, with a note that according to Article 10(2) of this proposal, they cannot even form a combined classroom because they can be formed for students from the fifth to eighth grade as a rule with up to ten students. Again, the number of students in the educational institution of Article 11(2) says: "The educational and educational work of the Educational Group for the Educational Educational Training of Information, Religious Science and Other Foreign Language is performed according to the standards of regular teaching and the electoral training from religious sciences is carried out in educational and educational groups that have fewer than 14 students.". According to that article, it is not possible to organise an election course of information and another foreign language because it is performed according to the standards of regular teaching, meaning at least fourteen and no more than twenty-eight students. Why can a religious scientist do less than fourteen students and other foreign languages? In these three examples, the smallest number in the class number of 14. I suggest that at least 14 students be expelled from the pedagogical standard and that only the formulation remains optimal is the number of students in the classroom 20. Permanent professional training of directors, students and professional associates. Article 18(1) states: "Employees, teachers and professional associates have an obligation to participate at least once every two years in professional training at national level, at least three times a year in professional training at the county level, regularly participate in vocational training at the school where they work, personally improve professionally in line with the jobs and obligations for which they are in charge.". But I see the problem in the zero performance coefficient, i.e. implement immediately after adoption of this standard. As such, he is indisputable for county and school training. The problem is to perfect the state level with a performance coefficient immediately because we take a school with 40, 50 and more teachers how much funding school would have to ensure that at least once every two years instructs teachers to professional training at the state level especially if we know that these are multi-day professional trainings in general somewhere on the Adriatic. My question to the promoter is whether primary schools will receive the necessary money for all levels of permanent professional training already this year or next. If they do not have guarantees for this, I suggest that professional training at the state level be limited to directors, teachers, mentors and consultants with a performance coefficient immediately and for teachers to predict a performance coefficient of 1 i.e. by the end of 2010. The standards of the student standard where transportation, nutrition, textbooks, swimming and cycling training, the health care of students are all well imagined but some things open up and skepticism in schools because for all improvements, the coefficients of feasibility are once again foreseen immediately. I repeat the same question to the promoter whether it's real, whether it's going to be that way. I also have a proposal to supplement the provisions on swimming lessons and bicycle rides. In fact, Article 40 of paragraphs 1 to 8 refers to the obligation of the school to enable all swimming instruction during primary school education. It's supposed to be in the second or third grade, that the program takes twenty hours and who and how it's going to be realized. However, it is not exactly an article 41 that speaks about the school’s obligation to enable all students to ride a bicycle during primary school education. So article 41 says: "Only a bicycle training is usually organised at a school gym and is conducted by a teacher of technical culture.". The questions are in which way, in which department, at what time. Transport culture and thus bicycle training is a very important segment in the formation of students' personality. Equally if not more than a swim lesson. So I suggest that this article be arranged in a way that is arranged for the 40th article to discuss swimming lessons. So I suggest that it be the third or fourth grade if the swimming lesson is in the second or third grade, that the program lasts up to 15 hours since the matter of the transport culture with several hours is covered by the program of the subject of Nature and Society. Accordingly, the updated article 41 could mean that the bicycle training programme is carried out during the 3rd and 4th grade and a minimum bicycle training program takes 15 hours and is organised by the school. I also ask the promoter whether besides planning new capital investments to build new schools, build schools, build sports halls heeded the fact that many of the existing school facilities were abandoned, for years unsustainable because with the means that the state provides through decentralisation it is impossible to meet the needs of adequate maintenance facilities. So, whether or not such destructive schools will be introduced into standard frameworks, or we will have a black and white variant of school facilities for each other and others for shame. But it's not just about school derivation, it's about standards of classrooms, dining rooms and other spaces in square meters. In most cases, it will not be possible to upgrade these spaces to meet the standards that are the solution to this type of problem. The following question concerns the transport of pupils. Article 36(1) states: "For the sake of greater safety of pupils in the circumstances of special traffic conditions, in non-public transport settlements, with unfettered passengers, the transport of pupils may be ensured regardless of distances.". Great. But the question is whether the proponent has ambition through the accompanying act to set criteria for such cases or whether it will be the autonomous right of the Director's judgment. This is a tricky area and can produce a lot of problems on the ground. The following article, paragraph 3, says: "With the aim of rationalising the transportation of pupils, schools can have their own vehicle for the transport of pupils.". Well-conceived, but again, the question of whether or not the motionary will finance such his own school vehicles. I ask this because the proposal for a pedagogical standard of secondary education has the same article, that is, Article 14 but also has a "quake", which reads: "...on condition that vehicle insurance funds are provided by the founder, local community or donor.". Here, and I believe you will answer these few questions and respect these few realistic and practical remarks. But above all, it will be accepted that the deadlines for adjustment from the primary school system to the European standard will be reduced to at least 2015 because this is not a cost, it is an investment in the future, in development, in the larger gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. Healthy logic says that we need the shortest investment time in education, so that we can shape society and the economy as quickly as possible, i.e. to collect the fruits of investment into the most important resources of the 21st century, people and knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7115	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. First one notice. The fifth session of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government will be held today at 14 o'clock in the "Josipa Jelačića" hall, the chairman of the Committee, Zvonimir Mršić. State Secretary, he answered his word. Here you go, Mr. Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7116	Thank you, dear Vice President, Your Honor, allow me to brief you on this, so all we intend to do is, of course, ask for some other projects to be strengthened, so you mentioned professional training among other things. That's something, that's something that we'll of course take special care of, and of course it's necessary, we've recently affirmed the entire life-long learning that applies, which actually applies to everything in all professions. And here, when it comes to our teachers, of course, that we're going to make sure that it is, that it is on a higher level than it has ever been before. Therefore, we have strengthened, in fact, professional institutions. Until recently, we had only the Institute of Education, which could not have been enough professional support in this, in this imagined system, we established the Professional Education Agency, which is also a new professional institution that is facing our vocational schools. Of course, we will certainly take care of it, that it will be, as best as possible, and that professional training will be raised to a higher level and, of course, what you are talking about will be said by this law that we are now preparing. Furthermore, I must tell you, when it comes to these proposals of yours, when it comes to electoral continuation, when it comes to religious science, that unfortunately we cannot meet this request of yours because we have contracts with religious communities in the Republic of Croatia. Not all of them are so numerous, and if we were to go into these frameworks as you say, then we would actually be disabling to maintain the beliefs of some smaller religious communities, and we're really tolerated otherwise it would really be discrimination, and that's something we really shouldn't do, and we really need to be tolerance there, so I'm asking you to understand when it comes to that part and we're here to make it very precise. Furthermore, when it comes to the transport of pupils, especially in secondary schools, I will remind you that last year a document is a national problem of measures that speak among other things in the framework of incentive measures and the transport of pupils in secondary school, we said that it is an inter-urban transport, so that it refers to the relations of the place of residence to the place of school, if it is more than five kilometers, and therefore we want to help the largest number of students enter the system of secondary education with one ambition to continue education and to be able to improve the qualification structure in the Republic of Croatia. And for those reasons, we want to, we want to go for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7117	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We've seen a plate, a replica, in cases like this, it's not possible. So let's move on with the debate, and we've heard from our esteemed colleague, Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. According to the proposed pedagogical standard for primary schools, a normative framework is being created for social workers to be kicked out of the primary school system as members of a multidisciplinary team. While pre-school and secondary education systems do not provide for the introduction, i.e. the employment of social workers. The Law on elementary schooling in Article 72 states: “The experts in primary school are a educator, psychologist, defectologist, health worker, social worker and librarian.". In the proposal for a pedagogical standard, a primary school system of education and education in section 6 of the expert associate, Article 14, states: "Experts needed for primary school education are educators, librarian, psychologist, education-rehabilitation profile expert and health worker.". It is apparent from the above that the social worker profile is not listed at all, although they are in the current basic school law. They were kicked out without any argument by social workers, which is unacceptable because there is no real need for social workers in the system. That means when it comes to professionals in the system, co-workers in the basic education system, we go below the existing standard. Therefore, in my debate, I will limit myself to the importance of the role of social worker in primary school. Due to the particularity of their psycho-physical development, children are precisely becoming the most vulnerable subjects of unfavourable social circumstances, which first negatively reflects their success and functioning in the school environment. It often happens that school is becoming an additional traumatic factor in their development due to the lack of familiarity of children’s social conditions and therefore insufficient sensitivity for children’s problems and specific needs. It is precisely the immeasurable role and importance of the implementation of professional social work and the activities of a social worker using specific knowledge, skills and strategies in the field of social work, children in need of special assistance who provide preventive and curative protection individually or in the group to make full use of their educational potentials and to prevent factors of increased social risk from acting inhibitorily on positive and overall child development. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that more and more young people are prone to an unacceptable model of behavior – adolescents abusers, schoolboys' reckonings, murders committed by minors, suicidal behaviors of young people. All relevant research suggests that young delinquent behaviour is recruited from socially risky and destructive families. For decades, the old experience of other countries where the school social worker is an irreplaceable profile suggests that just by carrying out professional, social work, the effectiveness of the school has improved in different areas and the number of institutional measures, hence the separation from the family, has been significantly reduced, and the space for extra-institutional treatment has been opened as suitable for children as possible and more rational for society. Breeding and education are, although not for all children, a source of real difficulties, adapting new school conditions unlike those in the family. It has unquestionable meaning for all students and does not occur in all the same way and at the same level. It is not rare that the new conditions and requirements of the school are opposed to the existing system of relations and values in relation to the family. The growing and newer learning requirements, along with the increasingly objective evaluation of knowledge in part of students, create a series of problems affecting changing images about themselves, about their own value. If due to the permanent requirements that some students experience and as a forced association, and some other unfavourable conditions such as child neglect and child abuse, pedagogical failures at school can have a negative impact on student status in the school environment and lead to different forms of reactive and spontaneous, unacceptable behavior with learning difficulties. In most of the students of difficulty at school, learning, behavior, and progress at all are the most common result of unfavourable family circumstances. Social work in the primary education system is one of the components of professional work primarily aimed at prevention, as it acts to prevent the creation of specific social needs of children. The implementation of professional social work shall monitor, analyse and study objective living conditions in and outside the student family, at school, leisure and elsewhere, and propose and take concrete measures and activities. Social work aimed at changing adverse living conditions and by applying other complementary procedures eliminates the social causes of school failure and thus improves the educational and educational function of the school. Dominant tendencies in teaching work are seen in efforts to provide comprehensive and full care for the student, to provide organised help in learning, to get to know the full situation of students, and thus social status, to establish his wishes, interests, attitudes. Achieving the aspirations and objectives of educational and educational work indirectly contributes to and organised social work that is fully and timely carried out by a school social worker. Social work at school is focused on systematic monitoring of all students – study, diagnosis, triage and providing advisory and other assistance to all students, all parents with the most connection and coordination on all professional staff at school and with health care services, social care, employment and others outside the school in order to conduct more detailed processing and broader treatment. Professional social work contributes to its specific methods and helps parents carry out educational and social tasks, students in their better socialization and versatile development, and also represents an important form of social intervention in social differences at the start of young people's lives. The current practice in our primary school system indicates that social work at school is carried out in an unorganised, non-constitutional and non-constitutional and adopted joint programmes of educational, health and social services, on identification, diagnosis, programming and implementation of joint actions and activities, and the results of the action are reduced value. Cooperation with these institutions is mainly about solving individual cases and, most often, those where behavioral and student development problems have already manifested so much that urgent social protection intervention is needed. In particular, preventive action that is extremely important is neglected, and it is not realistic to expect social care centres to realize the tasks of social work at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7119	Thank you very much. And we have one application for replication. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7120	I think that colleague Crljenko well apostrophe of our current underlying problem, but also the lack of this proposal for a state pedagogical standard of primary education that knows in detail what we are going to do in 10, 15 years. And this current problem, I think, is alarming, an alarming situation that the government has to deal with, and we here together give an answer. First of all, not only the increased violence, but the car destruction that culminates in unorthodox cases of student suicides, and that is something that must be alarming not only immediately operate, but also find its place in a single proposal of the state pedagogical standard. So it is obvious that you rightly point out that schools are becoming less and less like a place of rearing. They must never cease to be, and for that the key object is to us, and it has been promised for many years, so somewhere in the spring it is promised. I don't know if the secretary of state is going to do it now and if he has the authority to promise it, but in the fall he says we will always start with such an education, an education for peace and tolerance. No one has learned democracy by themselves. So it's something that needs to be introduced into our regular educational and educational program. And starting from kindergarten, not to speak in elementary school or high school that all conflicts can be resolved peacefully, by talking because democracy is nothing but conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7121	Thank you very much. There's no need to answer that. Thank you. It is time for the debate, dear colleague Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7122	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. I'd like to start by saying goodbye to Mr. Secretary first. I hope you'll tell him he's handsome, smart and handsome, but since beauty is in the eye of the observer, so we have an opinion on it, and please ask him to read the phonograms from the session so that he knows what's going on in the field of education. There, and I'd also start with a memo that went from your ministry to the Mirkovci about a boy named Stephen who was 11 years old and who hasn't been in school yet, and he's been denied class in the house because Stephen doesn't have chronic illness. By the way, his mother wrote to me in a couple of cartoons how Stephen lives. Stephen is 11 years old, completely dependent on the other person, we feed him, we carry him to the toilet, the feeding lasts for more than an hour, he can't even sit in a wheelchair because he has pains in the lumbar spine, he refuses to ask us to continue in the house, so the ministry. Their main argument is that it's not a chronic disease and if it goes to Little Teresa, it can go to school. They recommend a school in Vukovar, 20 kilometers away, which is physically impossible for us, etc., etc. Please Secretary of State, I left you this letter last time to act on it. And also, Mr. Chairman, in your county while you were acting as mayor, a boy, a blind boy in a wheelchair, no one even called him to school, and let's face it, you knew about it because your office was doing it, that boy doesn't know if he's going to school today. Mostly if he goes, goes under very difficult conditions, school is unadjusted, he's blind, no literature on the brail and everything. Also, please do the same thing from your position on the matter. Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how familiar you are with it, but on May 3rd, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has also entered into force and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has become binding on all countries that have signed it and ratified it. The Republic of Croatia was among the first. By signing and ratifying, we should have started this process. We should stop and stop. I believe temporarily. Why am I saying that? All those who listen to my discussions and are sensitive to the rights and lives of disabled people could see that I have kept repeating the same government failures in the area of the rights of disabled people over the past four years. However, the government has also done nothing about it. Whether it is equalising the rights of persons with disabilities regardless of the way, place and time acquired disability. The process was due to begin in 2004. About abolishing VAT in 2004 on imports of cars to civilian disabled people. The government's decision further increased the difference in rights between categories of people with disabilities. About disabled people who have not increased since 2000, about pilot projects that are fortunate to be used only rarely. Believe me, I feel like every debate I have is a copy trap. When these pedagogical standards first came to our benches, I thought it finally set out to adapt legislation to the requirements of the convention. I must admit that the proposer has respected some of the requirements of the field associations and some of the requirements of the profession, but reading this final text now makes me see that this is not enough. I'm not going to talk about failures that concern pedagogical professions because I'm not a pedagogist, but I'm going to talk about being a disabled person who once was a student with difficulties that the system was also ruthless about. Since then, trust me for many years, but the system hasn't changed too much and adapted to children with difficulties. I'm not talking about individuals. I'm talking about the entire population of children with disabilities. And even this pedagogical standard obviously won't change him much. It'll take a long time, at least 15 years to get all the kids to go on equal terms at school. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities aims to promote, protect and ensure full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons with disabilities. That text has already become binding for us. We do not need to explain to you how important international law is and how responsible it is. Article 24 of the Convention shall bear obligations relating to the education of persons with disabilities. Some of these obligations are to ensure that people with disabilities are not excluded from the general education system based on their disability and that children with developmental difficulties are not excluded from free and mandatory primary or secondary education based on developmental difficulties. And we know how many blind men fight to get to the literature in the first place. That persons with disabilities can have access to inclusive, quality and free basic education and secondary education on an equal basis with others in the communities they live in. Understandable to adapt to individual needs, to give people with disabilities the necessary assistance within the general education system to facilitate their effective education. Provide effective individualised support measures in environments that contribute most to academic and social development in line with the objective of full inclusion. I do not wish to further list the obligations of the Republic of Croatia because those who have created this standard obviously did not read the text of the Convention itself. So here they are, now I call on them to do it. Some of the obligations in these standards are respected, but only a few are. For starters, termology. The terminology of this pedagogical standard does not meet the standards of the convention. A student with special educational needs is considered to be a child with learning difficulties significantly greater than his peers, which is why he needs special educational support. Based on the rules of the education system, this concept refers to groups of students with visual impairment, hearing impairment, voice-language communication disorders, motor disorders and chronic diseases, reduced intellectual abilities, attention disturbances, hyperactivity, specific learning difficulties, behavioural disorders and emotional disorders, autistic spectrum disorders. These students can primarily be involved in regular elementary schools, only exceptionally in special educational institutions. Individualised educational and educational programmes shall be developed for all students based on a solution on appropriate form and support in education. The concepts of assistant teacher, mobile professional team, individualised educational and educational programmes are concepts that exist in the national strategy for people with disabilities and plans for children because they represent the necessary forms of support to regular school and without them is not possible educational integration. The pedagogical standard in some parts does not recognise the importance of these most important instruments, educational integration and inclusion of children with disabilities on an equal footing and on the basis of equal opportunities is again blocked. We're blocking it with standards. Children with difficulties in this case are prevented from growing and learning in a healthy natural environment along with all other children without discrimination on any basis. This is confirmed by the proposal for Article 3 propagating the segregation of students with difficulties. In this article, we list special schools, special departments for children with disabilities, not propagating participation in regular programmes. We also explicitly discriminate on children based on their disability, which is unacceptable. Article 3(6) allows the segregation of pupils if their degree of difficulty requires it. The system should adapt to that child, not to the child, to the system that pushes him into the institution. The institution stories are being brought to an end and integration is now being talked about, and we are still predicting institutions as measures. The convention itself is fighting an institution. I don't know how much you know that there are children who end up in special educational institutions, because of some kind of disability, where they are educated today for tailors, hurricanes, telephoners, professions that are uncompetitive in the labour market, and some don't even exist anymore. In this way we contribute to higher unemployment of people with disabilities who are now over 70%. Such situations should have been long past. Every child, regardless of his or her character, has to have the right to choose. Any choice must be in the best interest of the child. The kindergartens, elementary schools, high school schools, these are the places our future depends on. How to build a future when those places are not available to you? On behalf of Stjepan from the beginning of the story and of all other children excluded from the education system, I will not support this proposal of a pedagogical standard by even a small indication of exclusion from the segregation of children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7123	Thank you very much. Thank you for tracking and transferring and caring for those who need them, you also know them, I know that you've been to Koprivnica, if we'd made a center by myself I'd tell the world's standards. But as it will always be those who need and our sense of problem solving, surely no moment can and will be satisfied to the end. And now for the word, the secretary of state, Diana Vican, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7124	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs, respected MPs. I was challenged to answer indeed to Mrs. Vesni Škulić about the Convention on Rights and Persons with Disabilities, but not only that, but also some previous discussions. I think the biggest support has actually arrived to finally take care of children with difficulties and I think you've been contacted personally when it comes to terminology in this area. I mentioned last time that education-rehabilitation sciences gave their answers, but today I come to the conclusion that there are perhaps different associations or disputes about terminology in this area, and I think maybe we can work it out together in some other ways that does not diminish the value of the concert of education and education at the Croatian school not only now thinking about no government but also about the previous years and previous authorities that have actually directed and humanised the Croatian education precisely by changing the approach of education towards the child. And this standard, as I have noticed from the articles, that it does not convert any article into such an approach or one institution that segregates those children, but that it does care about standards that a direct institution of educational activities can be dedicated to children with special educational needs. Furthermore, it was noted that the pedagogical standards as a document were not at the local public hearing administration. I claim that pedagogical standards were at a public debate and that everyone even in kindergartens had insight into the texts. The remarks that have arrived and the support that has arrived are right from kindergarten. They are particularly thrilled with the standards of the number of children because pressure can occur in small areas without a clear limit, one if you want to make sure that local administrations, or directors, are well placed to limit to a maximum number of children who, without the existence of a pedagogical standard, can often be very abuseable. When asked about the study on demographic data, I have to tell you that in 2006, in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, an expert from UNESCO was visiting. Kohol, who expressed demographic simulations and demographic projections with his associates and pointed to a decrease in the number of children in Croatia and in certain counties and in all of Croatia so that it coincides by chance, here I was just before commenting with Mršić in Koprivnica County with a 10% increase, we have the highest increase in the first in Istria County for some, not some pardons but 5.9%, and I am not talking now about certain counties, and consultants and international experts have indicated that Croatia has seen a decline in birth rate of 2.8%. Next, to comment on pedagogical standards whether with... terminology or whatever you want, I think it would be fantastic if only swimming pools, and you are very often calling for 2020 or 2022 if it was intended for swimming pools and large sports halls only, I think it would be fantastic if the performance coefficient for such buildings was shown by 2012 especially in the situation where in Croatian schools we have hygienic conditions if you want today we have 25 schools that have external toilets and I have to tell you that these standards are based on a series of studies and analysis of the identification of the situation in Croatian institutions. As for the problem of professional associates, I think this discussion will last just because, here I first heard of the school social worker's occupation today. I've heard of a social worker, a pedagogue and others, maybe it's my handicap. We need to distinguish between the needs of professional associates and those arising from educational needs, those who are directly involved in educational activities and those dealing with social problems. These are two different things, of course, that are connected, but to say that social workers are now dealing with prevention and perhaps by training other professional associates what they should do. Croatia is a traditional country in which education and education is an activity, i.e. a process in students and our children, where conceptual prevention is not an excerpt from education and education, but prevention is an obligation for all direct holders of educational activities within the education and education itself. The term of thoughtfulness, I must say, is that from these standards that someone called concoctions, worked by experts, known, let's say, edukologist Professor Nikola Pastuović, a well-known professor of Architecture Aufranić, that I am not talking about others, Professor Bezen and others, and that the reviewers of this text were respected professors from the Department of Pedagogy from the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. I would ask that, as I read more carefully and perhaps with some larger dioptria, this is about pedagogical standards that are contrary to educational standards. So, information literacy is a competence that has more levels, not exclusively an educational standard, and is not a pedagogical standard, such as democratic citizenship, education for peace, etc., fall into concepts that work, reach educational goals. The term of pedagogy, pedagogical and pedagogical is an entirely adequate term which due to the dispute of Anglo-Saxon scientific supporters and perhaps European or part of European traditions, respects the term of pedagogy which, I returned from a series of my graduates where I met pedagogics and I can tell you that they were not flooded by any educology, that they were not welcomed by their associates by dear educators, I arrived as your educator to perform my educational act, but were indeed engaged in pedagogics exclusively as an educational activity, and pedagoggy is not ashamed that it is an applied activity. I think this is the kind of document that this predication, how long it's been waiting and what's been waiting for, we all conclude that the standards are necessary, but I'm still building myself on the fact that in some way it's better not to bring them in because they should still wait or delay. The application of the delay method has actually led to this, instead of accepting one principle on which the pedagogical standard, i.e. three pedagogical standards, has been adopted for three levels, and these are the principle of separation and change. I really don't know what it would mean to delay something for three years if it wasn't already done now. So it's not about an army document, it's about a document that can be variable, because our reality is variable and our working conditions are variable, therefore all other conditions, and here it's about a series of conditions, are also variable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7125	Thank you very much. Correction of the alleged, distinguished representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, so, Madam Secretary of State, yes, it's about segregation, as soon as the institution is mentioned, as soon as separate classrooms, special departments are mentioned, then it's about segregation. So I wouldn't agree with you here. However, as far as terminology is concerned, I also think that you should have looked at and aligned with the national strategy, so where mobile teams are talked about in one way, about pedagogical standards in another way. So, I'm told by some ministry people, he says, so that's by itself understood. Unfortunately, we don't have anything in common, especially wrong, and especially not in conduct, because we have laws and standards and strategies and everything, and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on. Therefore, it is not to be understood but to be harmonised. Also, I suggest to you personally, it might be good for the population of children with disabilities to sit down and the ministry and the civil society association, and all together at one round table to finally clear this story, so, as anyone is called, from which the model is seen, whether it is seen from a social aspect, medical or educational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7127	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished MPs, colleague of Dubravka Shuice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7128	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't have a voice like you. So, we have before us a state pedagogical standard that prescribes what the school of the future should look like in Croatia, and all by the example of... to the Scandinavian model of education. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] I, listening to this debate, seems to me that the key to our joint success would be to make this pedagogical standard enforceable and that's something we all need to insist on. I'm seeing it as a frame, right on the trail of what Mrs. Secretary of State is now talking about. Because we're all aware that this is a framework, and when I mention it in 2022 then we realize that this standard is going to change and it would be bad if he didn't get in line, if he didn't act up and sanified demographic growth or fall, and if we were in a situation like today that we have a pedagogical standard that's 25 years old. It's been said here for eight years, as I understand it. We've all tied to that 2022, and it still refers to that maximumist part of the pool, which we've heard about here many times today, but eight years is the optimal period when we should have all the primary and secondary schools in one shift. Of course, there's also technological progress that needs to be understood and what we are today, actually, and we can't do it, which we would like. And I'm sure they were thinking about it in the ministry when they proposed a standard like this and that's why it's being used optimally, because that's the only thing that was possible for me at this point. Of course, it depends on all of us how we implement this pedagogical standard, how we implement it, when we tell all of us about the state, government, ministry, but also on local administration and self-government, and I think local administration and self-government is very important here in equating conditions and creating equal opportunities. I am now sure that this pedagogical standard will no longer depend solely on the goodwill of the unit of local administration and self-government, but will have to be given a uniform basis for the entire education system, from pre-school to primary to secondary. So, it will also depend heavily on the good will of what counterpart Roksandić was talking about when she mentioned a pool case in Sisak that conditioned that swimming be carried out as a mandatory discipline. I will say here an example of Dubrovnik where we are just building a kindergarten gift that plans to implement before this pedagogical standard comes into force, plans to implement children with developmental difficulties, integrate into that system that is regular. So we're already working on it, we're already building this kindergarten and the pedagogue standard wasn't in force. So, there's creativity from the local administration unit and self-government, but let's not forget that a lot has happened on the 2000 capital investment plan here from the EIB, from the World Bank, from the CEB. 144 schools have been built or built, and we certainly need to count on such help. That's how I look at this case. We built two schools in the Dubrovnik area of CEB, and we even built a part of the pool that we also declared sports even though it served both professional sport and school sport. So, the fact is that we are aware that this is a framework, that equating conditions and creating equal opportunities is very important, that it is a very important element of this pedagogical standard to integrate students with special needs and also to encourage gifted students. And he's also very serious about the education of national minorities where we have model A, model B, model C that I don't explain here right now. It is safe to notice an elastic approach to existing conditions when it comes to size criteria that are established in all three dimensions of minimum, optimal and maximum. Also establishing the right to education during sickness and free textbooks and what is most important is that I come from the education where I spent twenty years working is the most important normation of the number of classrooms and students in high school, teachers, professional associates, etc. It's not a big shift from 32 to 28, we need to be open. From 32 students to 28 is a really small shift, but he's already saying something. The fact is that if there are more than three students with developmental difficulties, then the maximum number is 20 students, etc. It's also important that maximum 6 hours of theoretical teaching for students per day is 30 hours per week. In any case, the goal in my opinion of this pedagogical standard is to organise classes in primary and secondary schools in one shift. That's what we should be trying to do. And as for preschool education, the fact is that 60% of preschool children will be integrated, we have to strive for a higher percentage. Here is mentioned 98% for that very preschool age, which is what may already be in place but this 60% percentage should certainly increase but will depend really on the fiscal capacity of local administration units and self-government because it is our basic task to build kindergartens except in these rural areas of special state care, mountainous, island where assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia is expected and I think we should work in solidarity. When it comes to cohesion at European level, then it is thought of the even development of all countries in Europe, in the European Union, and here it is said of the even development of all parts of Croatia from Vukovar, Ilock, Istria, Rijeka to Dubrovnik, and I believe that we are able and able to do so. But I repeat, I personally view this standard as a framework that will surely experience change because it is normal, because these are the life opportunities that will guide us to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7129	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7130	Well, I'd like to replicate to my colleague Shuci about the standard for children with developmental difficulties. First of all, I think that even now in pre-school and primary school standards were standards for children with developmental difficulties but, for example, in Koprivnica, we didn't need them, we built a special "Podravska Sun" in which we created really a prerequisite for children with developmental difficulties but only those who can't be integrated into regular groups in kindergartens to attend. So it's down, it's like blind children that can't be integrated, etc. She remained, for example, deaf children have so far been integrated into regular groups of our children's kindergartens in Koprivnica. For all these groups of children with developmental difficulties, we have special programs in our urban pools, so for blind children, and for mentally retarded, and for children with physical disability. And indeed, what can the State Secretary Janjic testify about because he visited all these facilities. We have reached that standard to say that there is no special need for education because these children also have the same needs as all other children to be in the regular system of education and we are here to create a new "Podravska Sun" for preschool education, for primary education, after that for the working occupation and work of associations for people with disabilities or associations of persons with disabilities but also a whole series of sporting recreational activities on all sports facilities because we have adapted all sports facilities to be used by all citizens of Koprivnica, so regardless of the possible type and degree of disability. And it is indeed the goal that not only kindergartens and schools but all public facilities are adapted to all citizens because all citizens have the same needs. All citizens have needs for education, for culture, for sports, not for some to say they have special ones. Thus, it really depends on how much a local community needs to create the quality of life equal to all its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7131	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7132	Well, here's colleague Mršić, I agree that this is a convenient opportunity to expose our views from the local level, and you took advantage of that as I did in one part of my presentation where I said what we were doing from the level of local administration and self-government. So we agree in the part where we say that our engagement from the local level, our creativity and the needs that we see on our ground are very important. In accordance with this, we are working and this pedagogical standard allows us to do what is very important. And I believe that we can even contribute to the amendments already through the board to all three standards and as I said it wasn't like the State Secretary used the term this isn't an army document. So, the document will definitely experience changes and in any case it's welcome and I believe, our experiences in the part that applies to all three standards are welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7133	Thank you very much. A prominent representative, Angelko Mihalic, also appeared for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I come from a small municipality near Varazdin, the municipality of the Prince and behold, thank God, we will have the opening of another kindergarten in our community these days. We don't have a budget as big as the city of Zagreb from afar. But believe me, the first day of kindergarten when we opened, I was then to be chief 12 years ago, I know how many problems we had and people haven't really understood the importance of opening one of those kindergartens yet. The financing of this kindergarten was exclusively from the budget of our municipality. And this second kindergarten was also financed partly from the budget and partly from the European Bank's loan for Reconstruction and Development. And you see, I agree with my predecessor, Mrs. Shuic, who says, it's very important creativity and those people who run local self-government. No one is amnesty, no chief, and even better developed municipalities, less developed municipalities. Of which is to say, is, you know, we don't have money, we can't single out for financing and building kindergartens. We spend a million and 200 thousand kunas each year to finance kindergartens. And I have to tell you that 20 employees are now employed in that kindergarten. And that's a place that has 5,000 inhabitants. Today it's unthinkable to be without kindergarten. And so much has changed the way of life in that place. But we didn't just do kindergartens, we had kindergartens last year, I repeat once again a used zone that was named the best zone in Croatia, but, however, we would have built zones if we hadn't already defined ourselves for funding and preschool, and in large part now participated in financing, in building and primary school, in fact building a primary school in our municipality. As I said, you see, we can't say at any point that the municipal budget, or budget, is a burden. I like to say that maybe the best investment, and like I said, there's been a lot of investment in the past 10 years, that maybe, not perhaps, but certainly the best investment was building kindergarten. These days we also get a new sports hall and the addition of elementary school, it is according to the model of the Varazdin County and Mr. Cacic. Someone here said, now I feel bad that Mršić came out of the pay phone, that the state was building halls and schools, mentioned the price per square metre of thousands of euros somewhere. We are not costing this model a thousand euros but also 3,000 euros per square metre. And it's easy to admire today that in Varazden it's been made, 20 schools and halls in Varazdin County, but now it's asking what price it's going to be, loans for 25 years, where units of local self-government have given it 25 years, and it's not a basic and primary co-financing and the construction of schools, so many municipalities won't have enough resources to, as prescribed by law, build and co-finance kindergartens. I don't know how it could have happened and who didn't know that Varazdinska County in that title was in charge of more than a billion kunas today and that we don't talk about all the municipalities where this public private partnership model was applied for 25 years. We weren't against building halls and schools. Far from that, I will now tell you what the municipality of its budget will build on. However, there were certainly other models, but believe me, many of our county's chieftains and councils were not at all able to give alternative solutions. Well, good. If it didn't turn out now that nothing would be done, it was also in the Varazdin County of opening a school funded by the Ministry of Education and Sports. But in order not to do so now, I say, and schools as a petrian municipality were opening there, a new school somewhere cost 25 million kuna. But you see, Mršić said earlier, this country is building halls for European championships, etc. Halls and sports are very necessary. We can't say today whether kids go to school or sports. We're about to connect these things. We're going to connect these things, that money that we've intended to build a gym that would cost us three times less than it costs us now according to the model of a public private partnership, we're going to build a sports center but the same everything within the school. And I believe, as Mrs. Roksandic said here before that, and Mrs. Secretary of State, that we will definitely build a pool by 2012. And I say all that one more time, mostly from the municipal budget but it has a model, and the government always had models, here's what I said and co-financing through loans, through the favourable loans of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So you see that units, and small units of local self-government take care of it because I'm, we've often said badawa would build me and business zones, industrial zones if we weren't to invest in school before. We already have a problem today. The Knegenec municipality zone employs 850 people, and all happiness is its good geographical position and proximity to Varazdin that we have a pool of labour but increasingly smaller. Especially trained from a high-level frame, and now it's gone. We have to work on it, we have to invest in children, because today, our children should not be a rental workforce in those areas, but they should and should manage these areas, they must be directors, managers of these companies, and eventually, if you will, the owners of these companies. So, the thing is, there are municipalities that think that way, of course the opponent of such thinking always does, especially when it's on a local level. But once again I say here, there are examples like that. Of course I also thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the restoring ministries that have always heard of such investments and activities. But once again I withdraw, and now the local elections are coming, the main task of local self-government is exactly that, and people will need to be evaluated especially now that the mayors and mayors and mayors are elected directly in the elections of who will be able to offer such programs to people, e, for those people vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7135	Replica, Ms. Representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, fellow Mihalić, you have offered me another replica, where I must tell you that in one small municipality you are able to make two kindergartens and swimming pools and schools etc. This is an excellent example of a good master in the Republic of Croatia, and on the contrary, I repeat that the city of Zagreb is opposite of this municipality of Kneginac that it is a bad master, where a quarter with 11000 inhabitants does not have a single kindergarten. There are schools that are in crucible condition. In each school classes are held with three tours, and I think the law was not passed in the city of Zagreb and the law was not passed when it was passed in 2001 on decentralisation of education. Very quickly all the rights of the law were taken over in the city of Zagreb, but the obligations were left to someone else and were never fulfilled, they were never made, and I repeat once again that it is time for the city of Zagreb to take seriously the town of Brezovica in the 21st century should also be a kindergarten and elementary school, so that children are equal all in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7137	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7138	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The national pedagogical standard proposal lies ahead of us. I will look back at the secondary education system because from 1975 to 2001 I worked as a professor at the most numerous schools in the Republic of Croatia, which are mixed schools and I hold that what we have in front of us after a whole series of years at the very beginning should be commended because it is something that we have not had in front of us so far or we have been able to discuss something that is certainly and signifying and quality and that will certainly bring remarkable results by 2022. Of course, you could have noticed that I, I said, started in '75. A year. So, I started at the time when a system was introduced that destroyed many generations when there were preparatory and final stages, when high school doctored, etc. But I don't want to talk about it. Government policy of the Republic of Croatia is aimed at uniform development across the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and thus this standard sets out the criteria that should be ensured as the first material, financial, human resources, but also the assumptions and conditions for one uniform, identical development of the system of overall education and, in particular, secondary education in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. It means that a system should be set up uniformly and efficiently in the hill-mounted area that belongs to my city, but also in the city of Zagreb, Split and elsewhere. What can be seen in the beginning is that the planned funding from the state budget in this period from 2008 to 2022, amounting to 2 billion 855 million, is certainly a guarantee that both a spot-and-responsible approach will be made to the achievement of this standard and that the funds are also planned by 2010, one expression of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resord Ministry for the steps taken in the field of education and education. That really significant funds have been invested so far in raising the level of pedagogical standards, especially in the period from 2003 to 2007. I will present to this High House indicators from the county from which I come, and this is Split-Dalmatia County and not only for secondary education, but also for primary school schools and others. By way of capital investment from 2003 to 2007, 62 million and 688 kuna were invested in new construction and upgrade of schools, and sports halls totalled 62 million 121 thousand and 688 kuna. For investment maintenance 28 million 716000 kuna were allocated, and for data-free equipment, 5 million and 581 thousand and 602 kuna were allocated for 2007. Of the 55 towns and municipalities in Split-Dalmatia County, there are none that are not covered by these investments. So it starts from the smallest municipality to the largest cities. Here we recently had the opening of new schools in Cista Provo, sports halls in the Snakes, where Mr. Minister was present and who best confirm that there is a policy of even development. That's how I can confirm it from my own environment. In fact, it is enough just to look at what they look like today and how they are equipped and how they are actually decorated, upgraded kindergarten, primary and secondary school in Vrgorec. They said today I had already been built up, renovated, equipped with new furniture, information equipment, new practices, areas for practical teaching, sports fields. Among them are a large sports hall, several small sports courts, which is one shift that has been made in the city and in these areas just in recent years, especially from 2003 to 2007. So that's what we can see for ourselves. “ If a goat is lying, ” says the people in us, “he is not a horn. ” Especially again, I must say, the joyous fact is that new spaces will be built up and planned. As far as I know by the programs and plans of our county in many environments, as well as in my environment that will primarily ensure students attending classes in one shift, but also employees of the standard that is worthy of man. What I want to single out here especially at this point, and what I am looking forward to as a man is the fact that Articles 3 and 4 therefore provide for a high school, pedagogical standard of secondary education include environments that belong to specific areas of public care, but also mountain and mountain areas that allow less classes, fewer classes. So, a small number of students in these classes, and that means actually enabling further education in my own environment, allowing me to repeat even development again, but also continuing life in those areas. As well as parents' safety one that children will attend secondary school education in their midst, not go to other environments that require and signify costs as well. I would only touch in one segment of primary school education, and it refers to transportation. Namely, as I come from the middle in which, in fact, in a large area of 294 kilometers, square transport is secured in the way it is, I believe that one step forward in the quality of transport should be made. It can be provided in a way that does not call a tender every year for a new carrier, so they compete who will come to that and then actually get after the contract on, depends on 3 to 5 years, we actually get into a situation that he does not want to invest in that transport. He gives old buses. Then what happens happens to us is what happens to us. So let's give people a 10-year chance so we'll actually see that they'll buy new quality buses that will also be safety for student transportation. And today we've got, you know, something that I don't think is right. And finally, the construction of new facilities, the space that we can certainly see all of this, their equipment, the conditions of employees, the construction of sports halls, swimming pools, the reduction of the number of students in classes, the number of classes, health care, nutrition, education of children with special needs, children who are educated in language and programmes of national minorities. It's all, at least I have enough reason to support the proposed pedagogical standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7139	Thank you. Replications. Dear Madam Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7140	In your debate, colleague Matkovic, you said you were sure that the government had provided all the financial resources needed to implement these standards. I will warn you, here, on page 4 it says, the reasoning of the primary school standard, I quote, that the 2008 state budget needs to provide 604 million 537 thousand 435 kuna, and beyond what year it is, and in the rare below that the 2008 state budget provides 145 million kuna from capital investments, 15 million kuna for equipment, and that this will join the unlisted amount of EIB2 C5 and part, also undefined, of 300 million kuna from decentralised funds. So from all these programmes that would otherwise be implemented and that there is no standard, therefore the gap of 604 million and a half million kuna and 145 million is more than big. The same thing is worth to you in high school. Page 5 of the argument, so I read the information given by the Government that says that 294 and a half million kuna is needed for 2008 and that they have provided 52 million kunas from capital investments, 25.7 from equipment and again unlisted and undefined amounts from the EIB's CEB 2 and one part from decentralised funds. Therefore, I don't know how you can be sure that all the financial resources are secured when the explanation says they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7141	Replication response. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7142	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I don't think the esteemed colleague Lugaric heard what I was saying. She probably listened, but she didn't hear. The difference between listening and hearing is very large because from what you have said, dear colleague Lugaric, what I said is actually coming from what I said, and that is that the budget is provided. I mean, you're in your own right now, but you're in your own right. Well, I don't really want to rephrase it to you because you said yourself that the funds are insured, and that's actually what's going on. There are also exact amounts from 2008 to 2010 but it stands and amounts from 2008 to 2022. So that's what she's saying to herself. However, I'm not saying that it is, nor am I going to say that it is ideal, nor am I going to say that it is enough. Killing goes one step at a time. Nothing is unchangeable, only the Bible has not changed to this day and the rest is actually changing. Here, in that context of yours, I'll just let you see that I'm part on your side to say the same so that there's a very nice saying that it can't be covered by the palm of the sun, but it says another very beautiful one, which is that it can't be dawned before dawn. So let's wait 2022 and see step by step and step in everything. ... All right, all right, buddy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think you said everything yourself, and that's what I'm saying, which is that the funds are secured and there's someone who cares about it and who will certainly continue to worry. But I understand. What can we do? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7143	Next replica. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7144	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will refer to Mr. Matkovic's extraordinary presentation, so I will use the quote by Mr. Ivo Lovrić, who is otherwise president of the Association of High School Directors for Proposed Pedagogical Standards, because he only has words of praise and I quote what he said. He says they're not too ambitious and that's what we need at my school is, he says, all classrooms air-conditioned, everyone has a Internet connection, a computer and an LCD projector. That should really have all the schools. If we, he says, are air-conditioned apartments, cars, trams, different public institutions, he sees no reason why schools wouldn't be. He says it's not too ambitious, it's all about schools, but we're aware that it can't be done overnight. It is often mentioned in 2022 and is often criticised, but if we look at most things better, Mr Lovric comments much earlier. It is satisfied with the defined number of students in the classrooms and educational groups, planned to increase auxiliary technical staff. He was particularly pleasantly surprised by the intention of hiring a computer equipment worker. That's what we've been looking for a few times so far, and now it's finally coming true. The planned dynamics are also good and acceptable to us, said Mr Lovric. In particular, she is looking forward to classes with fewer students, educational groups that should not have more than 20 students. I realized that the more intense employment of new professional associates would start next year, and that's great for me. He therefore joins the government's praises, the secretariat under this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7145	Replication response. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7146	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am pleased that my colleague Kundić came from the middle that has positive experience in the past, I reiterated, investments from 2003 to 2007 and in primary schools, and in secondary schools, and in student homes and other facilities of sports and in their contents that I have presented, and I have brought up the example of my county. I can see that there are other environments in which our Resort Ministry and the Government are certainly keeping an eye on each other. So it's clear that there are also environments and we can't say they're not there, here's a colleague named Šolić, who doesn't get all that together. However, the fact is that very much people can do in local self-government units, mayors and mayors. It's about people who need to be encouraged, along with school principals, with the ministry, with the county. At that level, a single vertical should be established in the environments where this was established there has been a significant shift. We can think of it, many can say no, you can't see it, it's not that. That's it, gentlemen. You should come and see. And those of us who, I personally worked from 75 to 2001 in mixed school and taught both high school students and technical professions and crafts, and I know very well how I worked and what conditions I was working on, and I see today what conditions people who are working on today and in primary school and in high school are doing, and I know personally how much we single out for kindergarten and how much it really is the upgrade of kindergarten and everything that we have invested in it have so far produced results, and that is the renewal of the life of gentlemen. Those who live in small areas know that the primary goal is to keep the population in those areas, we will also retain it with pedagogical standards. It's the basis of everything we have to take care of. Everything else falls into the water before that if we want a balanced development of all our neighborhoods and if we want to keep people in the areas where they live and not create... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7147	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7148	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Government of Croatia's 2008-2011 programme in the segment of education, science and technology provides, among other things, for many measures and for the country's pedagogical standards to be referred to in the parliamentary procedure. That's what we have today at the hearing. It is national interest and the need to bring labour standards in secondary schools and dormitories for at least two basic reasons, which is that all students under equal conditions and in accordance with their abilities would pass the process of secondary education, but that all system workers would have uniform working conditions, training and advancement. I'll focus my discussion on high school education. This standard should provide lasting material and financial preconditions for the achievement of the law of established rights and obligations in the field of secondary education, thus creating preconditions for further quality development of the secondary education system in the Republic of Croatia. This national pedagogical standard of the secondary education system is a set of criteria that directly regulate the very activities of the system and that have been discussed so far. The document also sets out the dynamics of compliance with the envisaged criteria in order to achieve a maximum of two shifts, to level the conditions according to school size criteria, to raise the level of professional support to teams of professional associates, but also to build, reconstruct and equip high school institutions. The adaptation of the existing system of secondary education, the criteria set out in this standard of demand and significant investment, but it is good that the size criteria are also set in three dimensions: minimum, optimal and maximum, thus ensuring a more elastic approach to the existing conditions of implementation of this activity. But it is also good that the envisaged application of this pedagogical standard is set up in particular as regards spatial conditions and equipment that allow for gradual development according to optimal solutions. It is also good that by setting clear criteria for the implementation of the secondary educational process, it achieves full visibility in setting priorities, especially when it comes to greater material investment and the conduct of employment policies, which is very well visible and defined by the coefficient of performance of the teaching standard. Significant raising of the student standard is clearly through the right to education during the illness, accommodation in the dormitories, the right to free textbooks, and the further raising of the student standard is related to the exercise of the right to free interurban transport, and will continue with the announced Law on secondary education. I also mention the introduction of licences here, and as announced by this standard, in order to give greater importance, nobility and social role of educational and educational workers, as well as the necessity of the development capacities of human potential in secondary education. The planned funds for achieving the 2008-2020 pedagogical standard of secondary education are around less than 3 billion kuna, from different sources of funding are provided, many environments have built up so far, up to one level a system will not need to invest the same thing every year. However, the trend that we also see in the ministry's programme that is increasing from year to year is important, so here's only for the next planning period we have an increase of 12% means in 2008, so in 2009, an additional increase, an allocation for these programmes of 10% and a further 10% increase since 2010. Significant growth and expenditure for employees in the education system, meaning for the period 2007 to 2012 these funds for employees have been increased by nearly 4 billion kuna. It also grows to educate employees, but is provided with funds in the budget and in 2008 for the development of national curricula and all documents arising from it, including secondary education curricula. This is all a guarantee for those skeptics who hold that all of this will not be realized. For school construction projects only in 2008 there are also considerable resources provided, and in the next four years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Bank will allocate around 500 million kunas and an additional 400 million to equip schools and achieve the objectives set by the development plan for the education and education system for the period 2005 to 2010. Additional funds for the implementation of these standards are allocated through the IB2 programme, which is to help develop infrastructure to units of local self-government, thus providing about 300 million euros of which education estimates will benefit almost 21% and around 450 million kuna respectively. The resources of CEBs not fully used and around 300 million decentralised resources are also available. In order to achieve this standard in the secondary schools of Zadar County from which I come, 20 with 313 departments and 7 thousand and 600 students and about 900 educational staff, five school buildings with 23 classrooms and 8 sports halls should be built in the section of the school building. We believe that this is possible long before this deadline of 2022, but of course with good cooperation from all means of school staff, i.e. the director of units of local and regional self-government, ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here I will just mention something that has been wrongly said during the debate so far, and this is how it means in the area of the city of Zadar, in the area of Zadar County, only from the CEB programme we have 28 school facilities of total plan value 137 million kuna. It's almost finished, this project. In the town of Zadar, not only was the technical school centre built but classical high school was also built in Zadar, a very valuable project, but the main school in Bila Brig is also a major part of the city of Zadar. And one more thing, here and when I'm talking about rebuilding these schools I'm going to mention, which is that, for those who forgot, the total after the Homeland War was destroyed in the Zadar County there were over 50 high-level buildings, and about 300 objects in total, meaning, with lower, damage. So over 50 higher-grade high-grade facilities were damages. We've set priorities, restored schools in the field of special state care, because priorities have been focused on the return of exiles, and now we have fewer schools left, which I'm sure this standard and this program will fully implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7149	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7150	Well, here you are, colleague Marinovic, well said, and especially in 2000 that many schools in Zadar County have been restored. And that's true, because they were destroyed. However, I think you'll agree with me that it's inadmissible that 18 years in the city of Zadar no elementary school has been built, none of them. The high school of state funds was in 2000 and some, it seems, to me, 1st or 2nd were granted those funds when the Technical School Center was completed. That there was a single kindergarten, and it was an upgrade to that kindergarten my son went to, that there was a little more kindergarten than when I went to kindergarten alone, so it's horrible and terrifying. But that's why, Bill, consum, there's nothing down in Zadar. A better offer even almost than in Zagreb. And I think we need to talk about it here, too, so tomorrow, when we get back to Zadar, we're gonna give support that there's no interception of things but to choose a unit of local self-government to follow that job, not to say that our leaders down there say, and we'd be building schools and kindergartens, but there's no space. Of course there's no room for both Billa and Konzumi and the other malls, the supply chains.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7151	Replica reply, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7152	Here, dear colleague Ingrid, in the very town of Zadar at the end of the school, a very nice school, so, near the end is the restoration with significant resources, schools on Bill's care. Gardens are also built. There should be more of them, there I agree with you, but there is also a kindergarten on Smiljevac, also a part, and an upgraded kindergarten, and I don't think it's any worse situation, not worse than in the very city of Zagreb, as far as kindergartens and many others are concerned. However, here, you could point out then and very nice conditions outside of the city of Zadar. When you mention very nice conditions in the municipality of Poličnik where the kindergarten is, where we have made a large number of kindergartens in the vicinity of the city of Zadar in the area of special state care through various programmes co-financed by the state, but also by the funds of the European Union, then I would agree with you and in this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7153	The other day, I was walking past Any Worrier and it's building there. I was just going by Any Worry And listen, it's gotta work. [[I started working when I was 18.]] Every first start is a start. There will be no children unless concrete measures are taken in that direction. Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna break up the session. We'll continue at 3:00. It is Mr Anton Mance's turn, so Mr. Representative Šima Djurdjevic, Mr. Representative Branko Kuti, etc. Otherwise, a session of the Constitution Committee is cancelled which was scheduled to take place today at 13:30 and will continue, will be held tomorrow at 10 p.m. Ten o'clock tomorrow. Yes, at 3:00, we should vote on the completion of the agenda, so I'd like representatives and deputies to be in the hall. We're going to continue to discuss pedagogical standards. Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7154	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. My debate on the pedagogical standard would, however, mostly refer to the secondary education and education system, given the discussions that have taken place so far and where the pedagogical standard of pre-school education and primary schools has mostly been processed, but there have been few words about secondary education and education to fellow Matkovic who contributed. Listen, it would have turned out that part of this pedagogical standard wasn't there. But he's also very important. And we who worked in that part of education, because in education both on pedagogical standards and at school, many are involved by employees, students and parents. Therefore, anyone in their position can discuss the pedagogical standard. Therefore, this standard has its own history and premise, so it is based on some laws and it has already had the possibility, which surprised me that in the past years, there have been no bile discussions and that there is no now at the end of this part of the debate, it would have been that there is only one kind of school, a high school that has achieved a significant standard in some places. And we also have to say that there are other schools that are very important, so, along with high school, there are mixed schools that I think are very important. Their importance is also from the investment position and the pedagogical standard. I have to say the vocational schools are very expensive, they have a lot to invest in, and they're looking for big funds, even if it's about the most common interests. So, it should be said that high schools like schools that would hold one priority, to say and elite, education like that in Western Europe, therefore, with us, therefore, there are mixed schools and there are areas of those cities and municipalities which are therefore, smaller, which can't by the number of students, which I have often heard here and what is confusing when it comes to whether there can be 14 students, 20 or 25. So there are such areas and I am coming from one such area and there are even more in Croatia. So only in the area of Gorski Kotar would it turn out that there is no standard, if there were no schools that meet the conditions. And there are three schools in the area of Chabra, Moravica and Delnica. And I think that this pedagogical standard, which I would also like to thank the representatives of the government, the secretary of state who included this proposal, this term that is often used, which is mountain-mounted to give these schools as well as the islands schools on the islands the opportunity to operate such schools. Therefore, in the area of our Republic, schools therefore go into two shifts of 76&a. And I see that with this pedagogical standard, it essentially determines what is very important to highlight, therefore, equal conditions, permanent funding, the special need for students with difficulties to integrate into regular programmes, that these pedagogical standards solve gifted students, a uniform and orderly system of education for national minorities, criteria for the number of teachers and professional associates, increases the number of professional associates that should be highlighted as a long-standing, therefore, teaching worker, I see that there is an increase in both homes and schools. Then reconstruction of schools and homes as construction of new schools and homes, mandatory equipment, so textbooks, accommodation of students in homes, health care, work in maximum two shifts, professional training. In particular, the adoption of a national programme for compulsory high school education with free transport should be highlighted, which means that it is another proof, a high school education that is practically continued by students all when they graduate from primary school. The positive consequences that will arise from this proposed solution are, first and foremost, improving spatial conditions, improving the implementation of the process for children with developmental difficulties and gifted students. The funds are needed. There's been a hearing here today about the deadlines. Of course, if we take the deadline until we're 22 years old. However, it should be taken first in 2008, 2009, when investments of practically 294 million kuna are seen. It means that if you look at it at the end of the zero-labelled coefficient, there are 17 proposals, which is very significant and not mentioned so far, so we would say in the procedure immediately. Therefore, these amounts would be resolved by the work of schools in one shift, additional student space, home building and quality, didactic equipment, which is also important to mention. Something concrete about the standard. The first size of the school, it's the one that's written as optimal but you should say that there are schools, that's what you'd say under three, is the second number of departments, then the number of students in the class. And third, therefore, the number, departments on the islands, mountain-mounted areas. And areas of special state care that allow a small number of students in the classrooms which certainly please us in such hill-mounted areas. Because that means the students will stay here, they'll be longer in the parents' home, so going to the big city for schooling in some way also affects the students. Because the city, basically big, offers a lot of things. The number of high school workers. It is determined according to the number of classes which is very important. So, in addition to those who run the school, it should be emphasized that there are also professional associates, therefore, in an increased number, we have seen this in both schools and at home, which so far has not been, almost in this number when it is spoken specifically at home that they have more than 80 students, where one expert associate is employed more. So, also pedagogical, psychologist, librarian, defecologist, all that means one increase. And on the other hand, I have to say that this standard of us working in schools, which we're thinking problematicly, which means we see here those opportunities that weren't before. So we accept in any case, because these are significant shifts. As far as further progress is concerned, the burdens of students in classes, i.e. in the course of the week, or in the practical setting, the additional and additional follow-up, are all regulated by this pedagogical standard. Students' homes are regulated by accommodation that determines a special law. The spacious conditions in high schools, therefore, talk about squares, talk about squares per student, of 30 squares, if multiple floors are twenty squares. If it's about spatial conditions, then, that every classroom, if it's about social subjects or naturally mathematical that you should have your own cabinet, that your classroom, that you also look for certain equipment in that classroom. And that's one standard that's really needed, somewhere he exists. But then, he practically takes effect immediately. Then, an increase in standards can also be seen through the conditions that classes will not be performed only in the classroom, that classes will be performed in the library, in multi-purpose spaces. And what I would especially point out, regarding vocational schools, which also have this standard that I was talking about earlier. And I think it's important to point out that workshops for practical teaching especially in these areas of mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas provide one standard. Because it is very important, there is a big difference between big cities, and even the difference between Zagreb and Rijeka is in terms of ensuring such practical teaching for various professions. Because the possibilities of licensed workshops in small places don't exist as in big cities. It is therefore very important that such schools as are fewer schools and which are located in these areas which I have already mentioned in May of good and quality workshops where there will be more and training of more classes, practical teaching, so that students can get out of the process, therefore, with, not only theoretical but also practical knowledge. And I think this, this standard allows. By the way, as regards the criteria for space in secondary schools, there are therefore educational schools of the classroom for joint programs and norms of between 3 and 3 and a half square meters per student in schools, with the fact that already today there have been speeches in classrooms that do not apparently have 60 square meters of space. Then, there are specialized classrooms for vocational teaching, workshops, places for physical and health culture and multi-purpose space. I must say, as far as local communities are concerned, that there is a great effort here, too, in the part from which I come where at the end of the sports hall that will soon be opened and that will allow this standard which is very important for these mountain-mounted areas where the winter period is taking place, i.e. the inability to go out and up to 8 months where it is very important not only for teaching but also where students will spend their spare time. So it's solved this way. Otherwise, as far as the school's equipment is concerned, I have to stress these classrooms that it's definitely necessary and I see it here in this pedagogical standard. This project, equipment in terms of the project, audio lines, then the Internet, intranets and other, and also the teacher's cabinet. And in the end, I'd say something about the dormitories themselves. So these are specialized institutions that provide a form of help to parents, which also enable them to seek a certain number and increase. I also see that here which is commendable in the standard of professional associates where the number of students in groups decreases to 15. Thus, it provides the possibility of better quality work. And something else he didn't mention today, I'd say adult education. On adult education, I think that this is because I was at a work fair and these remarks and the problems that arise because programmes are not adequately represented in terms of the needs of industrial plants themselves. Here, I'll finish. That it's still better to be behind school, because then it's where and where better quality than at universities. It's my experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7155	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's a very important point. This is seen from the number of colleagues and colleagues reported. This is something that we who have come directly from the education system have been expecting and wishing for years. Is everything in these three extensive materials exactly what we are educational workers who come from the education system in a hundred percent meaning wanted, of course we can pass by in our opinions. But the important thing is that we have something that's better than what we've had so far, and I believe we're going to adopt all three pedagogical standards. Very responsible material. We care here about the population of over 700,000 students and, of course, those who raise education regardless of what level it is. Ladies and gentlemen, what can be said here is very important to me because I've been experiencing such problems on the ground, that the preschool minimum before the first grade of primary school was spent in various ways and in various places. Now it's defined that it's before going to first class for 250 hours, and you know exactly who's gonna do that part with that kid. Because we have children on the ground in the hill-mounted, in our villages, in our islands that have not passed kindergarten age. So, for the first time, children come in contact with those who are led by a foster parent, or it's a teacher or teacher who accepts him in the first grade, and of course in those 250 hours they have to give him those basics so that the child can normally attend the first class, i.e. I think it's a habit. But I'm not going into programming. Furthermore, as far as basic schooling is concerned, we should be intervening the ministry and all of us on the ground and municipal chiefs of councils, chiefships and counties, etc. to be involved in solving these important problems together, and problem number one is, in my opinion, that population of students in elementary schools that goes into three shifts. Let's go nicely to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports make a program that at the most recent time I can't tell you what it is, is that year, is it two, is it two and a half to solve the problem of students who go on three shifts. It's a burning problem to me, and we have to solve this problem together. Why all of us together? And from the county I come from, we also have two to three schools, two elementary schools and one high school that works in three shifts. And we've been authorized to build one high school and two elementary schools so that one that has about 1,000 students can unload. But where's the problem? The problem is, when it comes to the local community, whether the municipality, city or county is weak or not, honoring fair exceptions, of course, that this is the minority I'm talking about, should include at least saying this so much and so many squares I give for these and those purposes in order to make or expand the existing school facility so that students don't go on three shifts. That's problem number one. I don't want to repeat what 21 colleagues and colleagues have said. So far, there are other colleagues who have come forward for the debate, but I think we have to do it, and then we have to do it parallelly. We have an eye, the materials contain 71% of schools that work in two shifts and, of course, strive that within the time limit set in the materials we try to adapt to work in one shift. Next, when it comes to high school. What my colleague said before me we observed in practice and noticed that students of vocational schools, that we had to give them better standards where they work, anything to do with the economy when they get a job, so that they would not wander and that they would adequately meet their employer in their professional section in which the dependent school he finished. It's a student transport. It's a very, very sensitive question. Whether the contest, whether buses are older than that age. Special attention, those who conduct a technical review of this, I don't think it matters if the bus is 10 years old, so in the conditions that we've been running the competition, the bus must not be over 10 years old. And in 10 years, a bus can pass a lot of thousands and thousands of miles. It's about his comfort and his technical correctness. Do you see what has happened to us with children, a hot case and in other counties, there we must be very, very sensitive and those who conduct this tender for the transport of students on behalf of the founders, special attention must be paid to that segment. When it comes to building a hall, we certainly still have schools that do not have it, regardless of the size of the students, whether it is a one - part, two - part, or three - part hall. Of course we should work on that. But there's something else that's important that we haven't said in individual debates so far. External fields are important, external contents are important. They're mostly grassy playgrounds. Why send children only to asphalt, not to explain, it is not good, and when it comes to injury to the teaching of physical and health culture and when it comes to extracurricular activities. I assure you that a better quality class of physical and health culture is that a colleague who teaches this class walks with students into the park, makes certain exercises, than one very high-quality clock per methodological type done in a sports hall where it is still neglected in one segment of the health component. As far as I'm concerned, there's something I'd like to say very briefly. The World Bank. The World Bank finances only those schools, no matter what level they're working on in three shifts. But why isn't he funding? He doesn't finance the construction of a sports hall next to the same new school. It's not right, but it's their rules and we fit those rules. However, the school concerned, which will be financed by the CEB and the sports hall, should be immediately designed towards the gauges which both for the Ministry of Education and Sports, need to be agreed upon. Not in the 21st century or popular, it's not popular to work school, regardless of basic, high school without sports hall. But then we must try to secure from other sources resources to build parallels and sports halls. I think this part of the pedagogical standards that is here in all three of these materials is already participated as far as building primary and secondary schools and sports halls and content at school. I am also pleased that there will be not only the principal and the pedagogogogist who are in charge of the educational process, the organisation of teaching and everything else, that there are other co-workers here, but the problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not repeat myself, but the staff that the task should be done for example. on the ground in one municipality, mostly on the islands and in the hill-mounted mountain. To offer them a comfortable apartment to come, and a higher salary in areas of special national interest or care on the labour market we do not have. That's one big problem. And the problem that I am, and I'm going to end up with, I've seen it on the ground, we've introduced another foreign language, that's good, since first grade. But who teaches us in schools? The 1st to 4th grade in class class class may, it is not correct of me to say that it is still good for someone to teach, and the grotesque ones are in the field. That's not good. And when it comes to foreign language departments, the number of students enrolled remains at the same levels. We need to increase the quota there, and then we're going to get these people into the education system no matter what they find their interest in some other companies. But municipalities, cities, counties, state scholarships to cut that man out of his first year of study, scholarship him, and in a scholarship contract, say how much you're going to do in the county or the municipality, the city that financed you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I will vote for these pedagogical standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7157	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7158	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The new pedagogical standard will improve the quality of kindergarten education that will allow the child to develop fully all its potential. The programme, given the duration, is offered from 5 to 10 hours, shorter to 3 hours a day except for the primary programme, offers specific public needs programmes for children with developmental disabilities, gifted children, children of members of national minorities, alternative orientation programmes, early learning programmes of the foreign language, religious programs, etc. A variety of offers will meet the different needs of children and their parents for the variety of programmes. The preschool programme intended for children in the year before starting primary school is a shorter program with a mandatory duration of 250 hours per year. It is not legally mandatory, but it should encourage parents to enroll their children in preschool and make such a program available to each child. The 250-hour programme would provide children who have no opportunity to attend kindergarten incentives for development and the possibility of joining the group and socialising outside the family environment. Such programs with an increased number of hours provide elements of intervention on the plan to prevent behavioural disorders, as well as elements of psychosocial assistance. The criteria for the number of educators in educational groups are a new pedagogical standard for working with children over 6 months who require a higher number of educators on a small number of children, and that in all-day programmes ranging from 7 to 10 hours of work, there are 2 educators up to 3 hours during the day, which gives a higher standard that is desirable, especially in Jaslic age. The new standard for the number of children in the group is better than the old pedagogical standard where the number of children was too high and inadequate. For example, there were over 30 children in some kindergartens in the group, which the old pedagogical standard allowed. What could a teacher do with those children? Is kindergarten a guard or an educational institution? The new pedagogical standard will in practice facilitate the organisation of work and the improvement of educational practice. It is positive that the needs of kindergartens for professional associates have been recognised because their expertise has proved to be in practice an important factor in the quality of kindergartens and changes directly related to the achievement of children's rights to meet their needs. Standards are also criteria for equating the working conditions of primary, special primary schools, centres, institutions and homes. And there is a significant assumption of a more coherent development of primary education and education. They are a condition for the inclusion of primary school with demands of time, with ever faster flows of development of society. These issues have been occupying our attention for many years, practically pedagogical and wider social public in terms of finding criteria for creating equal and initial conditions for all types of primary schools, educational institutions, centres, institutions, children's homes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The quality of basic education of a country that wants to become a society of knowledge is reflected in many indicators that are the most important two. First. In the average educational achievements of each country. And two. In... student achievements and the average achievement of schools in a particular country around the national average. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The educational system of a country is more effective or quality as the national average of educational achievements is higher and the difference in student attainment and the difference between school averages around the national average of the country concerned is less. Two main groups of factors are among school differences. One refers to differences in external learning conditions between schools and the other to an unequal, socio-economic status of parents whose students attend different schools. Learning conditions are all factors that depend on success in learning. They can be external or internal. Internal learning conditions are the characteristics of students on whom their success in learning depends, these are the ability to learn, foreknowledge, motivation for learning. The external learning conditions are those outside the students in the school environment. There is also another group of factors socioeconomic status both for parents and for the environment in which the school is located. And it's developed socially. For example, in Finland, it has been demonstrated that even when the system is largely optimized on external learning conditions, inter-school differences still exist. They're very big somewhere. They are due to differences in the social composition of the population, in different parts of the cities where schools are located, the selective choice of schools by parents and because of the unequal economic strength of different families that are in the school system with mixed ownership enroll their children in schools with available tuitions. These factors increase inter-school differences in parent status and decrease within school. Students enter primary education from different families. Family characteristics found to work on student achievements include parental education, parental interest, student activity, the availability of material resources in a home that is important for learning. Starting with computers, books, dictionaries, learning areas, etc. As the goal of primary education is to prepare young people for life in a knowledge society that requires all its members to be as competent as possible, schools should ensure that all students, regardless of family conditions, develop their potential to a greater extent. It is necessary to adopt a pedagogical standard for all of these reasons. Something about a standard in high school. The fundamental human right and democratic assumption of youth equality is the same educational pedagogical standard and quality of education as the most important assumption of social promotion and professional success. Educational pedagogical standard is a document of state importance through which equal and identical materials are provided based on all students and teachers of all identical schools in the Republic of Croatia. The educational standard sets out and provides basic assumptions for achieving the goals and tasks of education and education in the Republic of Croatia, equal quality of material and human resources, optimal organisation of the effectiveness of the teaching process, unique and typical technological and health, hygienic standard of all identical schools in the country. It should also be pointed out that this proposal of the pedagogical standard for the first time in Croatia regulates education and education programmes for gifted children as well as children with special needs. It also pays great attention to children members of national minorities and the National Roma Programme. The basic measure of the standard must be the principle that all students have approximately the same conditions for achieving their constitutional right and legal obligation to attend school, and that all students can achieve an approximately equal level of knowledge and ability appropriate to their abilities. For all these reasons, I will support these standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7159	Thank you. Mr. Representative, excuse me, replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7160	The esteemed colleague in his debate has been pointed out several times, and this has been repeated during the debate last Wednesday and today. Pedagogical standards do not meet, do not achieve automation that all children at school or in educational institutions are educated in equal conditions. Pedagogical standards actually represent in some way only the conditions that can happen. This will happen if sufficient financial resources are provided and the application of the standards will be fully implemented. Because we can have written that, for example, every class must not have more than 24 children, but on the other hand, we don't have any mechanisms, not one instrument to punish that unit of local self-government or that school administration, or I don't know who if 35 children are in the class. Today in Zagreb you do not have a high school that has under 40 students in the class. And that shouldn't have been up to the last standard. Therefore, the adoption of standards actually meets only the preconditions that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or by the dynamic plan until 2022, or I don't know which, all together can be implemented. And only then might that happen if it's to be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7161	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7162	My colleague Lugarić and I are talking about creating a prerequisite through the standards of what you are now talking about. Several speakers, i.e. colleagues and colleagues today in their discussions, pointed out that we already have the environments that have just as much as predicted by standards starting with counterpart Mihalic, I don't know, someone else appeared the same. If I come from Benkovac, meaning from the field of special state care, children in primary school, i.e. Benkovac primary school has 28 schools in total and all children attend classes in one shift. High school is also, a new kindergarten is being built. So there are environments that, regardless of whether to adopt or not, they've been thinking in advance about what you're talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7163	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7164	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, and here are my colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased that Mr. Secretary of State who is from my county is here. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Since the debate on the proposed state, pedagogical standards is conducted unitedly, and I will unite my discussion, but I will most still talk about the proposal for a standard for preschool education. There is no better introduction to any debate in preschool education than paraphrasing the recent UNICEF action that says the first three are the most important. And indeed the first three years of child development are certainly the most important in terms of defining the child’s personality, then its impact on the success in life from some health condition, on schooling, and on developing a sense of self-respect and social skills in order to grow into a stable person who will today and tomorrow be a significant factor in the society in which he will continue to live. As preschool education is now known, the Law on Preschool Education, which was adopted in 97, operates. The law was then to be preceded by a state pedagogical standard for this area, which the truth has seen to this day, and precisely the hundred reasons, and the proposal for a pedagogical standard itself is a very important document and the moment in which it is brought is very important, so it is necessary to take a comprehensive look at the overall problem of pre-school education and the elements that determine the pedagogical standard that, as regards the planning of the same, so much more in terms of its implementation in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. I'm only going to look back on a few elements of the proposal that's here before us, which, even if it's not common, I'm going to start at the end. Not because I think it's irrelevant before, but because I think what I read at the end of it is the most problematic. Since Article 54 of this proposal is prescribed, kindergartens will be obliged to comply with their activity with this standard within five years of its entry into force, which means that within the next five years, local self-government units in their budgets, and they are in fact the most common founders of kindergartens, on average for about 10% of each year will need to be allocated more from their budgets for this purpose. For some units of local self-government, this provision will be an extremely big problem, especially for those who have a smaller original budget, and according to what can be heard on the ground, the vast majority of such units of local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities outside the City of Zagreb. And now here it is said that they will be obliged to single out additional words on average 10% of their budgets. I have to say something that may not be followed right here, which is that it will be unforgivable if certain units of local self-government as founders, or those who manage kindergartens, are listed increasing the allocation of funds for implementing standards in such a way as to largely or even fully transfer it to the back of the user or to the back of the parents whose children will be children's kindergarten users. Most people will normally say it's probably not possible, but here I come from Vinkovac where just until recently parents paid 57% of the price of kindergartens, and local administration, self-government, only 43%. This was not the case literally in any larger or more serious town in Croatia, especially in Slavonian cities. Everywhere, this relationship is such that much or less than 50% were paid by parents, and more paid by the city, until here in the City of Zagreb is even below 20% of what parents single out. This fact has been warned many times by local authorities. Some better and more favourable solutions have been proposed, but unfortunately there was no hearing. It was only recently that this illogicality was corrected and it was brought to the link that the city pays 60% and the parents 40%. So it took a long time for us in the Vinkovci to say a lot of water to Bosut, and those who know how Bosut flows know that he runs until noon in one direction, in the afternoon in the other, so that's how to say the lost story. And that's exactly why I have to say that this is so-called. The black variant is also possible, so it is possible for certain units of local self-government to account for this kind of separation that citizens who say and thus have a reward for having managed to place their child in kindergarten have to pay an additional amount. Of course, I am sure that in certain units of local self-government this will probably not be the case especially for those who have the rule of eased budget priorities, and children are certainly one if not the most important priority in investing from local self-government, or budget. but the big question is whether such units will be able to continue thanks to these proposals. Why am I a skeptic? Because here, too, this proposal also speaks of the fact that there has been a problem with respect for legality in certain units so far, and the question is whether this standard will bring them positive changes or also lead them into something worse. But some other elements in implementing these standards could be problematic. In fact, it is difficult to believe that the reconstruction of an institution that is in accordance with Article 21 would be necessary and would produce an increase in the number of institutions that will be smaller by number of children but will be more institutions, would be carried out in a way that does not increase the cost of employees or, as this proposal says, the number of workers would not increase because there are now non-existent jobs of the head of the centre, the head of subcenters, the head of the teaching units and so on. Well, I think we can certainly say that we're not going to have any less, we can only have more or in the best version the same number as we've had so far. I also have to express my doubts about the claim that says so, and I will quote this: "As all kindergartens that were founded since 97 have been given solutions for meeting the conditions for starting work from the competent social services in the offices of the state administration in the counties, i.e. the City Office for Education and Sports in the City of Zagreb, we believe that they have truly met the normatives and standards set out in Article 12. The law on preschool education and education and that new standards will only improve the internal quality of the work of such kindergartens." I'm afraid only implementation of the pedagogical standard could show the right picture of the situation and that it is much worse than the one shown by the ministry. But here's exactly the kind of thing, enforcement surveillance should be extremely good. In order not to completely end up with negative, I will say that there are some positive things in the proposal and some of us in Vukovar-Srijem County, i.e. Slavonia, are looking forward to, which is part of the proposal of professional associates on full-time in pre-school education institutions, i.e. educators, psychologists, defectologists, rehabilitators. It is precisely the need for such workers that we have, for the very reasons we know, that a large number of children on such lifetime occasions need to work hard with them. Unfortunately, we also have a lack of such experts, so if all of this happens to be closed on the route that only local self-government units need to take care of these things, then I'm afraid it won't be anything or it's going to be very difficult. I think that this problem should be addressed at all levels, from the moment of planning the necessary number of those experts to a more significant promotion of their education, including incentives for employment precisely in the environments where the most pronounced needs are. I will also point out that I am satisfied with the proposed programmes for children with developmental difficulties, as well as the gifted children, especially in the area that is talking about co-financing of the state. By talking to some colleagues on the ground, I must say that there is an opinion prevailing, so far we have not, or, just now, entered the area of the story of standards, better to have any than none. I hope that the promoter will not behave in this way, i.e. that he does not have the intensity of these proposals that we have seen here, and that he will be aware that the pedagogical standard or what his colleague Flego said, the conditions for carrying out educational activities, which I like much more, and I think that it is closer to what we are talking about today, is not an area that we can and can discuss by model that hastily been made, offered, accepted and eventually, as we have seen several cases quickly withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7165	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7166	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After a discussion on behalf of the club on Wednesday, allow me only in an individual debate, a discussion on pedagogical standard, primarily preschool education, with a note that in a similar way can be discussed about this standard for primary schools and secondary schools, in fact one level of remarks that show that, in fact, perhaps, the smartest thing would be that these proposals go in two readings, as well as other legal proposals, because somewhere their strength is approximately equal, financial weight and greater than numerous legislative proposals. Therefore, in light of these proposals for preschool education standards, it is said that child coverage in kindergartens is 55.12%, and is listed as one of the objectives of accepting new standards to increase child coverage to 60%. I, personally, do not think that it is an ambitious goal enough, especially if we know that today in the Republic of Croatia, a very unequal state includes children's preschool programmes. Most municipalities don't have kindergartens. Where kindergartens exist, they are often insufficient capacity, so a good portion of children can neither get into kindergartens or groups are significantly larger by the number of children than they should be. In that sense, I absolutely welcome the provision to limit the number of children per educational group, although I warn of one illogicality. For schools, it is proposed, as an optimal number of children in classes, 20 children, and for kindergartens, especially preschool groups, it is predicted that the maximum number of children is 23 and 25. So more than that is an optimal number of children in schools, which I personally estimate by too many, especially if we know the demand of children, especially preschool age, and if we really want to ensure optimal growth, their education and education, it is necessary to reduce the number of children, especially in these preschool groups. The same applies to Article 19 in relation to the number of children in the educational group for the implementation of the preschool programme. The standard of this number is optimistic on 25 children, but it's really too much to oversell the work on preparing these children who didn't go to kindergarten, for working at school, which is more than, I say, 20 children are optimistic about school, and these preschool programs mostly make it quite specific educational tasks, i.e., rather difficult exercises of fine motor skills, hands, development of speech, and it's really hard to do in a group of 25 children. The pedagogical standard also defines the type of pre-school programmes, so that the programmes can be all day long for 7 to 10 hours, half-day from 4 to 6 hours, several days and, respectively, short programs for three hours a day. It should be said that this provision is in fact a copy of the existing situation and I personally find it insufficiently ambitious, especially if we remind ourselves that our goal is to increase the scope of children's preschool programmes. Of course, in one municipality or city, the founder of kindergartens, i.e., the municipality, the city, depends on the length of the kindergarten program, which often has nothing to do with the needs of parents, but primarily refers to available funding. So it seems to me, too, that standards might need to be more ambitious to catch up with this problem, and I think that colleague Jerkovic has submitted one amendment in this regard. Because today, in this coverage of 50 and some percent of children are numbered children who go to kindergarten, e.g. in Vodice, the town of Vodice has one private kindergarten with only four-day or five-hour programmes, at the same time as these children in Zagreb who have 10-hour programmes. Three or five-hour or six-hour program simply isn't enough, it's between eight and possibly by noon or 1 hour. Therefore, I think that somewhere in the standards should prescribe this minimum duration of the programme or at least in a way in a percentage, in a way, commit, that these programs really correspond then and with the working hours of the parents, not just with financial resources in a particular city or in a particular municipality. The standards prescribe the number of professional associates and kindergarten staff. According to this proposal that we received from the ministry, i.e. from the Government, one expert associate is envisaged, therefore, or one educator, psychologist or expert on education-rehabilitation profile, with that I would like to add, there are no logos missing. I mean, in all our standards, we just miss the logos. In lower grade elementary school, kindergarten logos are extremely important. We would love it if the proposings would include it with their amendments. They really need a profile. So one such profile goes to 200 children. It sounds nice when it's written, but we're planning on programming one expert for 200 children. At the same time, 400 children go to a senior nurse. I'm asking you, what possible concern is there for children with problems? I repeat, children in kindergartens are worth a lot like that for children in lower grade primary school, very often having speech problems, primarily right-wing, fine motorists, not to mention all the other social problems. At the same time, these 400 children are attended by two professional associates and one senior nurse has five cooks. I think my colleague Mršić was talking about it. Personally, I think that children's psyche, child development and their health should demand at least as much attention as we give them for a diet, so that at least we put on 100 children of an expert associate and then let 400 remain a higher nurse, then I think that would be a more significant standard because this 200 children to one expert associate is nothing more than a mostly correspondence of the situation as we now have it. Similarly, for both primary and secondary schools, about two hundredths or 250 students or students, we have one professional associate. I hope there's not gonna be one person in this room who'll say that's enough. When I mentioned cooks and while I was already on the food standards, it was found that the diet of children in kindergartens is determined by a regulation adopted by the Minister of Health, with the agreement of the Minister of Education. I think it is important to include kindergarten owners or founders of a local self-government unit in this process. We had a good pilot project that proved successful here in the city of Zagreb where we are trying to implement higher standards in the diet of children, therefore state-level regulations, so those that will be prescribed by these two ministers must not be limiting to those units of local self-government that can provide an additional or higher standard, and of course we come up with a lot of key problems that are of principle nature for these standards because they do not actually prescribe minimums or maximums, they are talking about some optimisms that are then really stretching like cowboys and in several cases can be interpreted in one way or another, or be limited by individual founders. These standards also prescribe criteria for spaces, I'm talking about kindergartens here specifically, and they're quite well and detailed, but I have one question. For children of the same age, therefore these small children who are mostly not walking are dimensionally 5 square meters of living room per child. For kindergarten children, therefore, these older children of three years of age are measured three square meters per child. It would make more sense to me personally if it were the other way around. I mean, these kids who are little in diapers and are lying in Kinderbets make sense to me that they need less space than these kids who are between three and six or seven years old who are actually in some way the most intense age of growth and development in humans in general, it seems to me that they would need a bigger square area and these children in the mangers a smaller square of living room. We're not talking about extra rooms. We're only talking about living rooms. Standards for kindergarten equipment, didactic means and helped in my opinion and here in kindergartens apply to both primary and secondary schools and hardly to be referred to as standards. For example, in Article 50(2) of those so-called The standard is said to be "need to design space and provide equipment tailored to children's development needs". I expected the standard to say which equipment was recommended as minimum equipment for children of a certain chronological and mental age because it would in some way be logical, which means the standard should well design space. I mean, don't say anything. What does that mean? Does he have that reading box? Does he have a computer? How are the bases made? What's that? What's that? What is suitable for children of three years of age, what is appropriate for children of seven years of age? I repeat, the same applies to primary school standards that say they must be appropriate. Now, whether it's appropriate or not for some age, it's a matter of reluctance and something development psychology has definitely determined. And you know what the criteria are, and I think you should have prescribed them in standards. And in that sense me personally standards the most... somewhere and talks about this taste of educational activity and they were supposed to be completely accurate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 52 provides for an external evaluation by the founder and the ministry. The same goes for primary schooling. In high school, no external evaluation is foreseen at all. In the situation where we set up the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, there is no ministry, I mean the ministry by definition cannot conduct external evaluation and education, and it should work at the centre. To not be longer there there still have numerous inconsistencies it is not clear what the standard is ten or seventeen to twenty groups because in one place it writes one thing, in another place it writes the other. And not to get into the story about finance because colleagues and colleagues have talked a lot about it, these standards are simply not uniform and it seems to them the biggest problem and I hope that the time that will go through those annual reports to the Parliament will be seen as difficulties and that they will change in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7167	Thank you. One replica of Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7168	My colleague Lugarić, you have well noticed about this square when it comes to these standards and now, of course, you are asking children of kindergarten age, a certain age of how much the square is needed, whether it is bigger, smaller, and in conditions where today half of this population does not have access to kindergartens at all, so I think it is illusory to even discuss how much the square is going to be in 2020 or 2012. I think it should be done right now. I think that normally these standards, that when it comes to these standards, it's just a matter of fighting for a better future, and that's why we're losing the present, that it's a list and a catalogue of beautiful and good wishes and an irresistible reminder of the SFRY Constitution where it was written that everyone has a right to an apartment, so someone had it and someone didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7169	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7170	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. So on January 1, 2001, on the cover of the world's famous magazine "Economist" came out empty and only one sentence, it was the sentence of Peter Draker's modern father management and wrote "Knowledge is power and the next society will be a society of knowledge.". This symbolically demonstrated the role of knowledge in the 21st century on January 1, 2001. It became one of the most commonly used syntagms in the language of politicians and if we had the same great investment in education as we kept repeating the knowledge society we would probably be talking about some different standards today. Unfortunately, it was mostly all about stories and the biggest problem of these pedagogical standards that we all agree they're good quality and that it would mean a promotion and a greater possibility of becoming a real knowledge society is that the deadline in which it's proposed, the means that are meant to again say that everything will remain unfortunately on paper. I remember in 2001 when one decision was actually made which was the only decision which in the last ten years meant better functioning of primary schooling. For example, at that time, the coalition government headed by Prime Minister Racan made a decision on decentralisation of funds intended for primary education. And what happened? Practically after a year, here I will take for example Rijeka, primary schools have blossomed and no more money has been allocated. That money was somewhere in the system, but years before that, there was no telling where. Decentralisation of primary education funds has created a prerequisite for local self-government units to improve in schools the ability to do better. Therefore, in order for these pedagogical standards to see the light of day and allow Croatia to become a society of knowledge, it is necessary to do at least 4 things. The first thing is to implement fiscal decentralisation as soon as possible so that local self-government units can decide on further investment in primary education. These funds proposed by 10 billion increase by at least 50% and a deadline to implement the implementation of pedagogical standards by half. And the fourth condition that is most minimal and for which I would really like to experience in this assembly after this period of work that is not so long that the coalition, the leading ruling coalition, is in line with the proposals proposed by the SDP, because all the proposals that we make through the amendments to this pedagogical standard, we give them with a good intention to correct the proposal that came from the coalition government, which has certain shortcomings. So let's once accept the proposals and amendments that we propose and show that together we can fight for the knowledge society not only to be our parole that people usually experience. And what I would further like to say and take advantage of this debate on standards concerns a business problem faced by the parents of autistic children. In early April this year, the United Nations decision marked the day of the autistics for the first time in the world. They have also done so in Croatia to show that a problem that has long been recognized in the world as large in Croatia is, unfortunately, almost not recognized. The parents, teachers and children who are in Croatia, whether they are in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Novi Gradišca, where there are centres and where they are working with these children in tight and inadequate areas, making it important to work with such children. What is particularly frustrating for parents and children as well as for their rights to be systematically violated. From 15 to 21 years of age, everyone should be entitled to work training. The law doesn't know the rights of autistics to work training, although in the world, our examples of people with autism between 15 and 21 can be highly qualified to live realistically in the real world. With us, the problem of autism is divided into competences between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and in order to solve this problem, it would require much better cooperation from the two ministries that are not presently available. The indetermination of our law is also seen by the fact that we are still only talking about classical autism although it is a division that was abandoned many years ago, many years ago there exists today a whole series of different degrees of autism and it is precisely these degrees that enables different approaches and in some way integration into society. The additional problem is that after 21 years there are no more conditions, there is no institution where autists could continue to work. And what's happening to you? Because of the inability to settle in a particular institution, such a person is placed in inadequate institutions, for example in some centres where chronic psychiatric patients are and everything you have done for 21 years because of inadequate stay simply collapses. It's like you've built one building and now that that building needs to move into it it just collapses. Therefore, I would use this debate on pedagogical standards to appeal to the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Education and Sports to approach tomorrow and not wait for any more new decisions and, say by the end of this year, we can offer the autistics a different approach, the approach they deserve and the approach that all people in Croatia have to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7171	Thank you. We have two five-minute hearings for two clubs. For the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7172	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I have answered the final word regarding this very important point that has really taken up a lot of our time and which is when the debate was very broad, and I would say also fruitful because it certainly came from both sides, from all sides actually and I think the secretary of state is satisfied with this debate. I hope that this debate will bear fruit in this sense that the system of education will, therefore, retain the elasticity and adaptability of the situation itself on the ground and the time ahead, and it is a relatively long period of 15 years. I also hope that the financing of all that is going to change over time will be supported by all future governments. So, I'd just like to mention some things that I haven't said in that first debate about the HDSSB club yet, which is that I should be sure to look at it like this to say macroscopically and coordinate the permanent network of schools in walking. In fact, we know that this should be brought into line with the needs of society in certain environments, so in certain regions, especially when it comes to professional schools. As far as preschool education is concerned, I will continue to appeal from this pay phone to the government to take over that part of the burden that is unequal from city to city, from municipality to municipality. So, from the units of local administration and self-government, which is to say cut off or as Mr. Secretary of State who makes the participation, the participation of parents in this. I also consider it one of the elements of demographic, positive demographic policies and the possibility of giving parents to think if kindergartens are free to think about possibly having a child more. Croatian schools are not only and should not be just educational institutions. Also, Stjepan Radić 100 years ago, 103 years ago said that they must also be educational institutions, and we have witnessed and from many discussions we have heard here what is happening today in our schools and this educational component is very important to be installed. And I think it's pretty well implemented here in these standards, so we can finally get one model where our schools and our primary schools are, and let's say in preschool that the same thing and educational and educational institutions are also being implemented. As for kindergartens, it's really not just the living room of children anymore and then the ring of heaven, but it's really that preschool age, so let me say not preschool, but kindergarten age. We are not talking about the age when these 250 hours when children go to a small school, but I am talking about the total stay of children in kindergartens, where they are already at an early age, as the secretary of state said, can learn about certain and adopt certain skills that will benefit them in further education, as well as socialization in the society of children and overall in society, in our modern society. In any case, as someone said here that, I think Mrs Lugaric, that it is an increase of 55 to 60% of the participation of children in kindergartens, and there are 270 thousand in all of Croatia, so from 0 to 7 years of age, it is really one minimal shift, it is good, every shift is positive, but I say, I personally agree that this participation is particularly burdensome in our neighborhoods where this social map is really very bad. It is the eastern part of Croatia to say the name and last name in the region of Slavonia and Baranja. I hope that if we sum up all the participations of all the parents in the Republic of Croatia whose children attend kindergartens, it really is not such a sum that the Republic of Croatia could not find the funds in the budget. Come on, we don't have to this year which has already been adopted, but there is a rebalancing, but in the budget for next year or in this four-year period, not to find money for our children, actually for our future, because without them, without children, in the event of further demographic dying and trend in the Republic of Croatia, there really is no future in the whole of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7173	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7174	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. and Mrs. Secretary of State, fellow colleagues. For development in the SDP, it is not disputed and it has never been questioned that state pedagogical standards are extremely important documents in addition to home laws and national curricula for a particular area, almost crucial for an area that needs to be regulated from the field of education and education. In that sense, we in the SDP had very high expectations about pedagogical standards, we hoped that they would be made exactly, precisely, in detail, and that it would be possible to reach a consensus on these documents, but as we saw in this almost two-day debate and in the numerous discussions of our MPs and representatives from the SDP Club, it would obviously not come to a consensus because they are abounding in new concept and substance delusions, and they are, according to us, anaconical, unequal and ultimately financially unsustainable. Maybe just a few final notes. When we talk about concept problems, i.e. issues of concept nature, we have already mentioned, but standards by their nature must come from the Law on primary education, secondary schooling, preschool education and education on the one hand, i.e. from the curriculum and programmes, i.e. the national curricula on the other. Bringing standards before these documents, making it more in the agenda of some agenda of some agenda that we have adopted to comply with the legislation and laws and documents we have to adopt by summer, a month or two before that to adopt pedagogical standards, we find it completely confusing and it is obvious that pedagogical standards as deep-functioning documents that actually prescribe the conditions in which the objectives of re-registration in the laws, i.e. in the national curricula actually do not sort of solve the problem, but create another problem that we will then have to solve later. The other kind of problem is the substance of nature. In fact, we in the SDP think that standards should lay down a minimum, so in a way that the state must guarantee to every child in Croatia a minimum of standards in which they are raised, i.e. education, through indirect funding. On the contrary, and this concept, these standards mainly talk about the optimum, the smallest and largest number and optimal number. We've heard a lot of examples in this debate, and we can only call it so-called standards, not standards. Or one example, of course, that these standards in the field of these social activities or sciences cannot be compared to technical ones, but in some situations they can and can you imagine when it would be said that the optimal current of 220 Watta, but that could be 300 and 150, of course, would be absolute chaos. We talked a lot about funding here, colleagues specifically talked about the problems that can be found in local, regional self-government units, since the state imposes standards on these standards that must be met, and on the other hand it does not offer a new round of decentralisation to which it could lower funds. When we say that standards are anacrons, we mean that they're stuck in the 19th century. See, for example, only in elementary school standards that are classroom equipment, then you realize that from the 19th century we did not move away. It's kind of funny to me that I have to describe the amendments we're looking for online connections, for example. In kindergartens because that's what our standards don't predict. And fourthly, they're unequal. These standards for spaces are written in almost microscopic precision, and these standards relating to the very taste of the activities of education and education to doactic standards and the like, they are actually in no way prescribed or just standing, it will be arranged by the minister by special regulation or there is another formulation, it must be appropriate age of the child and will determine the purpose of the space. In our opinion, they are in no way good nor valid standards. For all these reasons, as well as those numerous individual remarks that our MPs and MPs made in their individual debates, we will not be able to support these pedagogical standards. We thank the ministry that somewhere between these two readings that have been, conditionally two readings adopted that observation that once a year a report is submitted to the Parliament on the implementation of standards and we hope that these discussions will also benefit from the improvement of these standards and finally make them more modern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7175	Thank you. Final review. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7176	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs, for all of you who have followed, may I remind you briefly. Before the parliamentary elections in Great Britain in '97. In addition to the topics they discussed about waiting lists in hospitals and not increasing VAT, one of the main topics of the election campaign at the time was to reduce the number of students in the classrooms. In fact, they have shown how much they care about education and how well they want to adjust in accordance with the time that is coming, as well as in this way. You are respected advocates and advocates in these numerous debates, and I will remind you today there have been more than 20 individual debates, that all clubs have discussed this, you have shown just as much interest in bringing documents to create some of the assumptions that our education is as high-quality as possible. Of course, without any ambition to bring these documents that will be valid for the next 50 years because of these young generations, that those who are only now born that the moment they become adult, they will certainly do some jobs that are not even there today. We're all aware of that. So all that you've said is really precious, and we'll certainly do it when we're preparing for Friday's screening of all the phonograms that were said in these discussions. In any case, we will bring together all these documents, all these scattered documents, criteria, standards, various instructions in one place, and for the first time in Croatian education we have never met. We have been in a number of debates in this High House and before had the opportunity to hear many of your suggestions that pedagogical standards should be passed. We've been preparing for them for a long time, and we finally have these suggestions ahead of us. With these pedagogical standards, we are confident that we will create some of the assumptions that we will raise the quality of education from our preschool institutions to high school institutions. We are confident that this will be a great contribution. All amendment-respected MPs and MPs that you have submitted on these three documents will be carefully discussed by the vote. It is in our interest to bring these documents as much as possible with a greater consensus in the Croatian Parliament because they will commit to both another government and some other government until there is a need for it to be completed. Therefore, this suggestion of yours is, at the very beginning that you have said, that the annual report is being submitted, we have indeed accepted it with joy and we will try every year to draw the line and see how much it has been done, and what is yet before us to do. If it is necessary after reading the phonograms, we will also give amendments to the Governments to which we will try to complete the text according to what you have mentioned in this two-day debate. I am finally convinced that when you vote on these documents, you will bring good documents and finally be pleased that your personal engagement has affected the quality of education in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7177	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on these three proposals of the state pedagogical standard. We will vote, the amendment table will be made, sent to MPs, but clear to the Government, or the Proposer, so that we can most likely vote on standards and amendments on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7178	Eleventh, Proposal for a state pedagogical standard of preschool education and education. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments submitted is divided into benches. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7179	Mr President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to warn you of the provision of Article 139 of our Rules of Procedure which states that if certain proposals create material obligations that the Assembly cannot decide on these proposals before it finds, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, that financial resources can be provided to meet its obligations. I remind you that the entire implementation, the implementation of state pedagogical standards, all three depend exclusively on ensuring sufficient financial resources. For 2008, the proposal is that they cost more than a billion kuna. In total, almost tens of billions of kuna are involved in the 15-year period. In the very explanation of the proposal for pedagogical standards in primary school, it says that 604 million kuna is needed for 2008 and that 145, while in high school it is necessary to provide 294 million kuna, and that a little less than 100 million kuna is provided, therefore, since, in our knowledge, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget did not discuss these acts at its session that they really determine whether there is sufficient funds in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7180	Thank you. This is a pedagogical standard that we make, and the funds will be decided by pro futuro, so we will put on the vote of the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education. Please, let's get on with it. ... We're going to the amendments, then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see them, they weren't in my sight, so I cut this one short. Amendment to the proposal of the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education. First of all, the amendment of Agent Iron Happy Flag. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7181	... our remark is not taken seriously enough, I think the provision of Article 148 is. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Rules of Procedure and more than clear. It says that, on the basis of the report of the Finance Committee, it cannot be determined that financial resources can be provided to meet the obligations. Our committee did not discuss these acts at its meetings, and we do not have that opinion from our financial committee. I don't think we can...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7182	Ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7183	...to vote the acts before we have fulfilled the business order.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7184	Please. You gave your opinion and called for an appropriate article We're talking about standards, and we're not talking about the amount of funds, when we talk about and decide the amount of funds, then we'll decide. [[Intruder: It is the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure.]] For now, we're bringing in pedagogical standards, pro futuro for many years, not for today, not here. So please be nice. I refuse to discuss this article more. You can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you said everything you had to say. Please be nice to have a representative, to be elected, please, you've been given your word, please make a statement on the amendments of Agents of the Iron Happy Flag, first. Here you go. She got the lady's word, and when you get the word, then you'll say it on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7185	Your Honor, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7186	But you didn't get it, you didn't get the word, and by the article... Please! Excuse me. By calling for Article 208, a representative may speak if he gets the word, and since he did not get the word, but the lady, then the lady will now speak, and the representative will later receive the word, and that is... The standard will then be implemented gradually from Article 66. The dynamics of implementation of this standard shall be determined once a year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia according to the means available for the current year in accordance with the performance coefficient attached and forming an integral part of the standard. Annual report on the implementation of standards, the competent ministry shall submit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. So that's what it says, and I'm asking the lady that we continue, and Mr. Representative Stazic will get the word after that. ... When you get your word, you'll be looking for a break. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7187	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much. First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7188	Here you go, ma'am, and we'll get a break after a member of the Rules of Procedure gets a word he hasn't received yet. Here you go. Iron Happy Flego, First Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7189	The first amendment is not accepted with the following explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7190	This amendment is not accepted. Mr. Flego, come in. Oh, enough of your terror here, man of God. Enough terror here! [[You're a terrorist.]] I didn't give you my word. ... [[Invasion: You are violating the Rules of Procedure.]] And that's enough! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't give you my word! She got Mrs. Word, how...... Oh, he's looking for a man of God. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're the one provoking here today, here's what you are. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't get the word, man. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, ma'am, you got the word, and the gentleman didn't get the word, he wants the word by force. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And he can only win it if the chairman does. You can't get the word, she's got the lady's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7191	Here, thanks again. I want to make a statement on the first amendment. The first amendment is not accepted, and the explanation for this is the following. The preschool law...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7192	So what's the matter with you? What do you want? He'll get word to anyone who's asked for a word after the lady gets her word. She's got her word, please. Don't make this Parliament something he's not. You didn't get the word, so when you get it, you'll come and say it. What's the problem? Ma'am, you have your word. Here you go. Yes, you do, Agent Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7193	It is not accepted in the national programme for Roma, at least 4 hours for children of Roma national minorities and 10 hours at most.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7194	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept, raise your hand? Please quorum. 83 MPs, we have a quorum. So, who's in favour of this amendment? No one. The amendment didn't go through. Third amendment of MP Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7195	It is not accepted because paragraph 2. subparagraph 2.1 explicitly states that programmes are intended for children to meet their needs and needs for parents in different durations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7196	Thank you very much. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? No one. He didn't make it. Fourth, National Minority Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7197	It is not accepted because Articles 15 and 3 comply with the Law of Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, both in Article 2 and in Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7198	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? He didn't make it. Fifth Amendment by Dr. Furia Radina and Ratka Gajice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7199	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7200	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? One. He didn't make it. 6, National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7201	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7202	Thank you. This amendment is an integral part of the law. 7, counsellors, Dr. Furio Radin and Ratko Gaitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7203	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7204	Sustained. It's also an integral part of the law. She's a representative of Romana Kerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7205	The word "rule" is accepted, but we suggest that the article remains part of the article which reads as "contains during the period" because it is important to continue the arrival and departure of children and their working habits, visits to exhibitions of institutions and to get used to organised work in the school institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7206	We can't ask her if she agrees with this, so we have to vote on her amendment. Who's up for the amendment? No one. He didn't make it. 9, MP Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7207	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7208	It becomes an integral part of the amendment. 10, representative of Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7209	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7210	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 11, MP Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7211	It is not accepted, because the proposed standard is more favourable because it is a person who is fostering children who cannot walk, children who need to be fed, changing, means who are dependent on the breeder, the breeder.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7212	So do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7213	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7214	He doesn't accept. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? No one. The amendment didn't go through. 12, National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7215	It shall not be accepted, as Article 25 of the State Pedagogical Standard complies with the provisions of Article 29. Preschool education and education laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7216	Who's in? He's not accepted. 13, MPs Furio Radin and Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7217	It's unacceptable. It's the same explanation, the 12th and 13th amendments are the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7218	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He's not accepted. 14, Agent of the Iron Happy Flag.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7219	It's unacceptable. ... Bring the minister. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7220	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. The amendment didn't go through. 15, Agents also Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7221	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7222	It becomes an integral part of this proposal. 16, representative Romana Jerkovic and Branko Crljenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7223	It is not accepted because the social worker is working for enhanced supervision and its area is family expertise and is connected to the Ministry of Social Care and the Ministry of the Family.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7224	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't make it. 17, National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7225	It is not accepted, because this standard is prescribed under the same Article 6 that according to the educational group, kindergarten must have at least 0,10% of the working time of an expert associate, i.e. four hours a week of an expert associate of ten times 0.1, which is full-time for ten educational groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7226	Who's in favour of this amendment? One. The amendment didn't go through. 19, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7227	It's unacceptable. Article 31 allows the founder to employ other professional associates or more professional associates according to his assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7228	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. The amendment didn't go through. 20, Agent of the Iron Happy Flag.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7229	It is not accepted, since the standard has taken into account the financing of pre-school activity in local self-government, the employment opportunities of Article 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7230	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't make it. 21, Education, Science and Culture Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7231	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7232	It becomes an integral part of this proposal. 22, Education, Science and Culture Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7233	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7234	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 23, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7235	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7236	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 24, Education, Science and Culture Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7237	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7238	It becomes an integral part of this proposal as well. 25, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7239	It shall not be accepted because the deleted item 4 has been repeated in paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7240	Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. 26, Education, Science and Culture Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7241	It is not accepted, since the medical and paediatric judgment that due to the health of children must ensure relative humidity from 40 to 60% due to increased respiratory problems, means respiratory disease, bronchitis, etc. In addition, it does not require high financial investments as it assumes the installation of an air damper device whose price is fully acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7242	Who's in favour of this amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7243	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7244	We'll take it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7245	The amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the proposal. 27, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7246	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7247	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 28, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7248	It is not accepted, but it is proposed that the text reads: "The external evaluation is carried out by the institution responsible for the external evaluation of education."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7249	So it's not being accepted, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7250	It is not accepted and the text is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7251	Okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't pass, he didn't get the necessary majority. 29, National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7252	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7253	It's being accepted, it's becoming an integral part. 30, National Minority Advocacy Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7254	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7255	It's becoming an integral part. I suggest we now vote on the National Pedagogical Standard Proposal, Preschool Education and Education, together with the amendments adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. This way, please quorum, because I see something's wrong here. The quorum. Please see the quorum. 76. We don't have a quorum. We don't have the quorum to decide. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we'll wait with a break. One break for 15 minutes, so we'll start at 13.40. And that there wouldn't be a dilemma about what was here today. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. No one can speak at the session before asking and receiving a word from the president. So Mrs. Secretary of State got the word and, of course, after she finished, she would get the word and the other one, Mr. Pupovac and this one. So there's no reason not to get the word, but you can't say here she's got the word, now she's going to talk to someone else. Here, let's wait 15 minutes, and we'll try to continue the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We're moving on with the session. The quorum is 78. First, he asked for the word Mr. Pupovac. Here you go. Well, then he was looking for Mr. Radin, and then Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7257	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. There are moments in the work of this Assembly when the character of the debate and the weight of the topics we are dealing with can lead to a state of failure to maintain all control over what we are dealing with. However, the fact that club representatives are not allowed to speak in things where they feel it is necessary to state their opinion is something that has not happened in practice in this House. The SDSS Club had a need to help the poor course of the debate on the adoption of the Law on Primary and Secondary Educational Standards be rerouted so that this important law could be passed either today or within a week. And it's a shame it wasn't received that way, and it's a shame it wasn't so accepted. There is no point in voting certain things alone, we representatives of the coalition majority if we can vote with some more openness with representatives of the opposition. I ask you not to take this as a grudge, but as my deep feeling that in all the situations in which this House can function that way. Therefore, I ask HDZ representatives to understand that we are part of the coalition majority and that just as you are taking care of stability, we are leading the majority. There have been certain moments in the past few days that members of the coalition have worried us. There were statements that were inappropriate and that you, Mr. President, had absolutely no reason to invite people involved in a public debate on this matter. It's not too late for that, and there's still time for that. In one word, I appeal to talk more. And when it comes to this particular law, we feel that this law should be passed. We are interested in voting but we would like to vote so that no one can object to us that we voted in circumstances in which we were not all able to participate equally in the debate. So if it's possible to postpone that vote in a week, see if there's anything else we need to agree on. The SDSS Club and I also believe that the National Minority Representatives Club will support it without further ado and there will be no difficulties. It's simply a way of working that seems to me you'd have to have something more balanced than there is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7258	Thank you. No, I'll give you one explanation now, and you'll get your word right away. First of all, it's not about the law. Please, Mr. Pupovci, you said this law should be passed. It's not about the law. It's about the National Pedagogical Standard Proposal. As a result, I answered Mrs. Marija Lugaric three times that the article 139, which she calls for for unsecured funds, does not refer to this item of the agenda because it reads: "If the bill creates material obligations for the Parliament, it cannot decide on the draft law before the report of the Finance Committee" etc. So, since it was not about the law and it is not mandatory in these standards to specify the funds that are secured I have twice explained to Mrs. Marija Lugaric. She also raised her baton for the third time for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which had no basis for calling on Article 139. The Rules of Procedure, since it's not about the law. That's one thing. The second thing, Madam Secretary of State got word and came for a pay phone. Then they started yelling and shouting on the left to give a word to the club's representative. I said I'd get a representative of the club's word after she finished Mrs. Secretary of State who got the word. What did I do that on? This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure say, "No one can speak at the session before they ask and receive a word from the president.". I didn't want to take away the Secretary of State's word to get some other word than I said when she's finished, you'll all get the word. So so is Mr. Stazic, Mr. Pupovac, Mr. Radin and Mr. Hrelja. And as you can see, as soon as the lady's done with this, I'm in the follow-up session as anyone picks up. If Mr. Stazic were here, he would've got the first one, as he was gone, then he got Mr. Pupovac. We can now talk about whether this is politically opportunized or politically opportunized. What I care about is the Rules of Procedure. And with... I'm in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if I were to be interpreted by the Rules of Procedure as being once like this, sometimes as such, then it would be one chaos in. So no one refused Mr. Stazic that he would not get the word after the lady who received the word ended her performance here at the pay phone. So I did it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 139 three times. Nevertheless, it has repeatedly been renewed, this proposal, that it cannot be voted and discussed if the funds established by the committee are not provided, has repeated it several times, and I have explained to her that it is a programme and that profuturo will approve the funds to implement certain parts of the programme that are here on the agenda. So it's not the agenda, it's the program. So, here, that's my answer, of course, it's always good if we can come out of conflict situations without some great tension, but for experimentation, raising sticks several times and here moving from the bench towards me and by force looking for a word, for principled reasons, I won't give in when I'm chairing ever if I'm right about the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, when someone's got the word done and they'll get the next one. And I think that's the order we should all respect. And now here you are, Mr. Radin, you asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, we were looking at that moment for the word Mr. Pupovac and I because we estimated that we were supposed to speak right at that moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7260	Thank you, but then he should've got the Stazic, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7261	I'm not responsible for Stazic, I'm responsible for myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7262	Okay, he was the first one to look for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7263	And for those in the name of which I can speak. Look, pedagogical standard, that's what we wanted at that moment, so I take the opportunity to say now, although the amendments have already been voted for one piece. The pedagogue standard is just one of those topics where MPs have to discuss and be present regardless of political will because it is something about the next 20 years, it is said and so it is. None of us or almost any of us will be here in 20 years. But there will be certain political options, at least some of the political options that are now in this House will be present in 20 years. So I ask you, Mr. President, respecting absolutely everything from word to word as Mr. Pupovac said before, which I also sign, I ask you to hold one such atmosphere, atmosphere and tolerance and respect for those who think differently, so whatever you say will be useful because it will also serve our children, I don't want to be pathetic, you know what I mean. Let's respect that, please, and postpone the vote on this subject, and let's go to other topics, so that, with the teaching standard, which is one thing for the future, there may be an opposition here. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7264	Of course, we are pleased to be all in session, but the tolerance was maximum with regard to calling on articles 139 and my responses that were not appreciated. And then it went to the emptying of the bench, and it smells more like the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court than this part of the agenda. So we know we wouldn't be fooled about what this is about. Now, Mr. Hug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7265	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Of course you did not violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, as I am sure you would not violate the Rules of Procedure and have accidentally made a decision because it is in your jurisdiction to decide on amendments to pedagogical standards delay. It would also be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because you have this authority, Mr. President. And I'd like to comment on what's been said so far in a way that pedagogical standards really aren't in the law. But they produce the effects of spending state resources and the funds of the local community in their application. So that's what the rules of the Ministry of Finance and other ministries do, so do these pedagogical standards. Therefore, in any case, it is better to make a complete parliament, even if some are against, even if some are abstentions, determine the pedagogical standards than to do so in the coalition itself. But I'm obliged to tell you why I left the Assembly, because I've suffered neatly moving balls around looking for the words of the club representatives and this, and I've supported it. At one point, however, a fuse came on to me, too, because you know Mr. President in that tense atmosphere, in creating such an atmosphere, we who are a little more sensitive can react to one impulse on the side. That impulse on the side was the departure of a gentleman, an esteemed colleague of Mr. Glavas from the Assembly when he addressed this section, whether he spoke to us representatives, whether he spoke to you, Mr. President, but said what I heard was a shame on you. Whether it's from another story, whether it's from another context, I don't want to comment on it now, but it was a lighter that motivated me to get out of the Assembly at that point, because simply none of us have the right to talk to anyone else like that. I admit that I am quite sensitive, sensitive, after all, it is to me on the other hand to be very perceptive to those I represent and to ask you to experience me like this. And I'll always argue that if we can come to an agreement to be tolerated, that we don't create without the need for an atmosphere of measuring forces, because what at this point doesn't need especially for some documents, specifically here standards that have long-term application, which will bind us for many years. Well, at least if the opposition is against or restrained, it's good that they're there, so I'm also joining, I pray in some way that if you can, because you'll be a bigger president, if you take a step back, than if you keep going at this pace, most of them prove themselves into tolerance and not in strictness, I'd ask you if you can do it to postpone this, so decision on pedagogical standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7266	Thank you very much. Mr. Glavas. Here you go. In the name of the club, Mr Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had no intention of calling, but since I've been called by your coalition partner, I'm obliged to answer and explain. It was “a shame on you” that was directed to my colleague sitting next to me on the left, and we explained ourselves down at the buffet with Mr. Hreja. When I said: “Mr. Hrelja, why do you leave the Assembly you are a coalition partner to the ruling party? ” If they need me, let them call me." Therefore, it is a confirmation of the honesty of coalition partners how this coalition works. So, they blackmail each other and every request has its price. And everything can be paid, and then that coalition will work. I'm not and we're not a coalition partner of the majority, but we're doing our duty as a representative, and here we are sitting here, but we don't want to hold anyone's quorum. The moment you have the quorum we will sit here, work, function and vote for or against. For if we agree, and against if we don't agree with your proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7268	Thank you. Now this is spreading further, it's getting some other dimensions, and I wouldn't want that. Let's get back to our assignments. It is my duty to implement the Rules of Procedure during the meeting of the Assembly and to work within the Rules of Procedure. Which someone sometimes doesn't like, or I think it needs something different that I can do. In any case, of course I would like to, we would all love to have our standards, which have been waiting for years to be achieved and the political consensus of the parties in the Parliament, and it is not here that we should be outvoted here about anything. Many amendments submitted by opposition deputies to the Pedagogical Standards proposal have been accepted here, and therefore no exclusion can be talked about, nor is it that they are for one another. We've all been working on it, and we've been having a good discussion all day, so on and so forth. The thing is, this case is being sharpened on purpose to high altitudes to compromise something else. We're not children as far as politics is concerned, and especially we who have a lot of games in our legs, so insisting on, three times raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure after explaining what it is other than provoking and looking for a reason why an excess is going to be made and coming out of the assembly. Here, that's in my opinion. Maybe I'm wrong, but that's my opinion. Now I'd like to ask if we have a quorum to continue the session at all. Since three of our colleagues went out again in the meantime, two, 81. I think we could keep going. If you mean feel free to say that these standards, three standards, we delay the moment, so maybe we can postpone for the next session. But we can continue with other points of the agenda. Why don't we be rational? What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7269	Well, Mr. President, I think we should move on, and colleagues are obviously tense because tomorrow they have their election congress and it's logical that it's hard to withstand the pressure they have tomorrow to vote on and I suggest that it move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-30-0.u7270	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move on to the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education that we started at the last session, and we interrupt and postpone the vote on this, the National Pedagogical Standard Proposal. To remind you, there was an observation that this was not in line with the Rules of Procedure. That remark I also rejected the one who thought was injured by the Rules of Procedure may address the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which was required to make a decision on that matter within 24 hours. Therefore, we have voted on this item of the agenda on amendments, and we now need to vote on the proposal for this state pedagogical standard of pre-school education together with the amendments adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? This proposal of the state pedagogical standard of preschool education and education, together with the amendments accepted, was adopted by 78 votes to 27 abstentions and 3 against.
