ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22507	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The government will share this opening statement in two parts. I'll give the first part and the Minister of Finance the second part. But before I begin my presentation, I will remind the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public who sees us as today the anniversary of the death of the first Croatian President of Dr Franjo Tuđman and, on behalf of the Government, I would like to express my deep respect for the first Croatian president. Mr. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The debate on the state budget and its adoption is a fundamental act that frames the government's economic policy, which also frames the country's economic policy in one period. Therefore, we in the Government are aware of this importance but also of the responsibility for the proposed budgetary solutions. The regular functioning of the state system on one side and the circumstances of appropriate incomes and expenditures are essential principles that guided us and in the process of drawing up this document that is on your benches. At the same time today, I am sharing with you full awareness of the drastic and rapid changes in the world economy that we are also witnessing but also to an ever greater extent, of course, of the participants. In recent months, we have witnessed the expansion of the global financial crisis from the economy and that is what is interesting to the most developed countries. The negative effects of this crisis are felt around the world and across Europe and should also be said to extend to Croatia. Croatia is not an isolated country. Croatia is part of the European and world economy. Croatia is an open country that adorns the market economy and, of course, Croatia feels the consequences of changed conditions in the environment. However, so far, the financial crisis has been hitherto welcomed by the well-prepared. Our banking overall financial system has proved stable and we have avoided financial turbulence that has affected many countries around Europe and the world. At the right time, Croatia was able to react to the consequences of global and European financial market instability. Croatia did so in co-operation, so the Croatian government and in collaboration with the Croatian National Bank. I also remind you of the adopted law on the provision of savings deposits this House adopted in October of this year on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the Croatian Government is also closely monitoring all further developments in the overall financial and economic environment and is preparing a package of incentive measures that will mainly address strengthening export competitiveness and preserving small and medium-sized enterprises. Dear Parliamentarians. The text and structure of the budget that was before you was created in the dramatic conditions of global economic change and in the context of the given Croatian conditions and circumstances. The projections of the European Commission and individual international financial institutions speak of a significant slowdown in the economic growth of EU member states, as well as the Member States of the Monetary Union, with the stagnation and even recession in most countries. negative growth rates. And just as the European Union countries are the largest Croatian foreign and trade partners and countries from which the largest number of tourists are arriving on the Croatian coast. And therefore, taking into account economic developments in the environment both in Croatia and beyond in 2009 we expect a slowdown of economic growth to about 2% In such unfavourable macroeconomic conditions fiscal policy remains focused on implementing the overall economic policy of this government. The budget as the government's main instrument in managing the fiscal policy that you and you have witnessed in the last few days has been designed very carefully and very long term. As early as 2004, we chose the direction of fiscal policy that was turned towards reducing the deficits in the periods of increased revenue to be prepared for periods of weaker income which are part of the usual economic cycles, so for the period we are facing today. The government has therefore made budgets so far, and this honor has shown me that with less spending, with clear strategic priorities and well-designed programmes, development continuity can be ensured with the needs of the population. It continuously invests in the development of a stimulating entrepreneurship environment, even regional development, the promotion of knowledge and excellence, investment in infrastructure, the information of society, agriculture and rural development. Social rights have also been restored to births, defenders and pensioners, thus confirming the social sensitivity of the government and parliament. Thanks to the strategic setting of recent years, solid foundations for the resilience of the public finances system have been created. This allowed the government to affect negative movements and preserve the stability of Croatian society at the time of the slowdown of economic growth caused by the crisis in the international market. And in the context of the 2009 crisis, one of the key objectives remains to achieve a balance between development imperatives and social justice. Families, children, old, young, defenders, unemployed, people with special needs were and remain at the heart of budgetary priorities. Therefore, in this 2009 budget, all rights acquired will be respected. All legally guaranteed rights are guaranteed because the government has responsibility both for the Croatian economy and for Croatian citizens. Based on these principles in recent weeks, we have had intensive talks and negotiations with employers and trade unions. This confirmed our firm commitment to social dialogue. This confirmed that we have developed a genuine social market economy in Croatia. Not market economy but a social market economy in which social partners actively participate in the creation of economic policy but also in taking over their share of responsibility. The 2009 budget was prepared under the social dialogue. It has been prepared in a dialogue where trade unions have not accepted a proposal to postpone wages growth in the state sector and the public. It is prepared within the framework of the government's clear commitment to respect such a union decision, to respect and sign an agreement. A different approach would lead us back to the situation from 2000 or 2001, no matter which government it was, but we have already passed through which we all paid dearly, taxpayers through court rulings in favour of workers because due to non-compliance with collective agreements, the government had to pay about a billion and 600 million kuna in the last budget term. Ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs and advocates for us social dialogue is not some kind of floscule but a serious common reflection of the future. On the basis of this belief, taking into account all the circumstances and respecting the signed agreement on wages with the public and state services trade unions, the Government will make an extraordinary effort to propose the concept of a balanced budget so that the next days during the debate and while we can propose amendments within the legal deadline, I mean the Government, I don't mean representatives, try to do everything to make the deficit of the state budget below 1% of the gross domestic product. The Government of the Republic of Croatia thus sends a clear message that Croatia knows and can manage its public finances in times of crisis. But this budget brings one newspaper to the benefit of all Croatian citizens. Although aware of the gravity of the circumstances in which the 2009 budget was made and the macroeconomic risks that will mark next year, we are starting with a comprehensive health reform that will provide sufficient resources to finance all needs of the health system and thus ultimately enable Croatian citizens to have quality health care. The reform introduces new sources of funding but for young, old, unemployed, funds will be allocated from the budget for those below the income censorship. Given the importance of regulation of the health system, which was also the country's main debt generator towards the economic deficit, the issue is in the role of strengthening the economy as the country will address the backlogs present over the long term. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, the government is aware that the current economic situation can most affect citizens, or the most sensitive groups of people. That is why we have drawn up a budget which, despite the necessity of reducing consumption, will not allow Croatian citizens to bear all the burden of the economic crisis. At a time of low economic growth, care for the elderly and the powerless, care for the sick, socially sensitive cannot be delayed for another time because it must now be as targeted, concrete and intense as possible. Therefore, in the 2009 budget, among other items, we provide for additional issues, pensions, and social contributions amounting to a billion and 800 million kuna. And I have one more thing to stress. The state will continue to contribute actively to economic growth. We will continue with capital investments that make up the assumption of further economic growth and development. Of course, some new programmes will not be able to take place in the next 2009 and will realize in the same volume as it would have seemed if this crisis had not occurred. Of course it will be necessary to time-allocation those programs. Capital investment in the budget has been constantly moving over the last few years between 3 billion and 3 billion kuna and 800 million kuna, and in 2009 we are planning them at the same average level here around 3 and half to 3.6 billion kuna. This budget therefore provides in a reasonable way the continuity of important investments in infrastructure as well, but that is also important. It also finds a place to encourage the economy by focusing part of the budget and by supporting exporters and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Over the previous years, the state has directly encouraged and strengthened the business sector to be more resilient and more ready to function and at periods of possible lower growth. Over the past 4 years, incentives to entrepreneurship and the development of a competitive environment have doubled. In 2009. The continuity of incentives for entrepreneurship is maintained and 5.1 billion kuna is allocated for these programmes. We also continue to invest in regional development in agriculture, rural development, and in education and science. All these programmes will remain at average levels in recent years, and in conditions where some European countries predict stagnation or, as I said, even negative growth in 2009, we will be able to ensure growth of around 2%. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs next year will not be easy. We have a number of challenges ahead of us, but important successes that we have been working for five years from joining NATO in April 2009 until the end of negotiations with the European Union by the end of 2009. It's a difficult goal, but it's not invaluable. These are important steps that will give further incentive to the development and quality of life of all in Croatia. Membership in the European Union and NATO will strengthen Croatia's position on both the capital market and in promoting competitive capacity to attract new investors. The reforms that we have done so far and that we continue to implement not only because of our entry into the European Union and NATO, but as we all know to say, and that is true, but because of ourselves it will allow us to bring the Croatian economy back to the path of stronger growth. However, we can only reach that goal with joint efforts. I am therefore convinced that we will all understand together the overall context of the events created by tectonic economic change in the world, but also of the unquestioned Croatian priorities. Accordingly, and our overall responsibilities, I ask the parliamentary representatives to present the draft budget together with the amendments to the proposings that will follow to provide your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22508	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr. Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22509	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Never in the history of the Croatian state, and in the last 50 years, no country has proposed a budget in such situations, and we must be simply aware of this for a simple reason because Croatia is not an isolated island. The Croatian economy is not an economy that is simply closed and that has no business contacts and relations with other economies. On the other hand, we are aware of the facts, and I will begin with this introductory explanation of the 2009 budget proposal that many countries that are more economically powerful than us, which have a far more developed and powerful financial sector, that many countries in the transition that we have in recent years have highlighted as an example and path that Croatia should go, and also one country that has been an example to everyone in the world of how economic growth is achieved, the high standard of population. The following year, therefore, those old, powerful European countries Italy, Germany, France, Sweden plan economic growth at the level of 2008 although it is questionable that it will be so. Ireland plans economic growth next year 0.9% lower than it was in 2008. Estonia and Latvia. These are two countries that have been highlighted as an example for us Croats over the past years by various international, financial institutions. Next year, Estonia is planning 1.2, Latvia 2.7% lower economic growth. Why am I saying that? So I'm saying for one simple reason that neither of those countries have heard the story that the problem is that some structural reforms have not been implemented, which is not done, which is not done, but only rhetoric is positive. How are we going to find a problem to help the economy and save our financial sector? So the European Union has also tried to find a unique solution to how and how to overcome this crisis, so you have finally seen that each country proposes its own model and its way of solving the crisis. And what is important is that Croatia cannot go without what is happening in the European Union and the direct impact on what is happening in Croatia has been happening in the European Union. Because we cannot say that the consequences of cancelling the contract in the wood industry are not primarily the consequences of the state of the economy in Italy with which our wood industry has the biggest business relationship. Or how the Croatian economy and those companies that are doing great will be reflected in the crisis of the car industry. Unfortunately, it's negative, and it's something you just can't stop. But you can try to maintain that level of production and jobs with certain countermeasures. So, on which macro-economic indicators are based the 2009 Budget Proposal. The assessment is therefore on economic growth of 2% although it is necessary to be honest and honest and say that we will have to work hard together, so both banking and non-banking and real sector and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to achieve this 2% growth. The projected and estimated inflation for next year is 3.5%. That's what we've come up against. These were the basic starting points for the state budget proposal, with the fact that in the projection of income, regardless of the projected growth of 2%, we have access to an extremely conservative exactly that we have a space if a smaller growth of 2% occurs that we do not generate higher expenditures on the spending side than those that we will be able to finance, and so we propose expenditures, business revenues in the following year, 124.6 billion kuna. And that when you look at the total there's growth relative to last year's 5.2%. However, when you look only at the growth of tax revenues it is practically directly related to economic activity, population activity, then you will see that these revenues are expected to grow by 3.4% while other revenues are growing 25.9%. This is exclusively due to the revenue side of the health reform proposal, as this provides for some new revenues in health care, the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in the following year. Business expenditures for next year are therefore foreseen with 128.9 billion kuna or 6.9% higher than in 2008, and if we look nominally then it is 4.3 billion higher and there are, there are two basic reasons, one salary increase of 6% based on the signed agreement at the end of 2006, under conditions when economic growth was 5.8% and in conditions when inflation was somewhere, something below 3%, and this should be realised in conditions where economic growth is 2% and inflation is going to be 3.5%. And then you see for yourself that it's an extraordinary effort to secure those funds. After all, given that revenue side of the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, it is logical that this part also appears on the spending side, because eventually every structural reform costs in the first year, and then it is illogical to think that such a reform will not cost our state budget next year. But to return to staff expenditures and what has occupied the Croatian public over the past month. So, these health-free expenditures are growing in the next year, $1.8 billion, or if you look at the amount of pay money last year, that's 8.2%. And now that we look at growth, tax revenues estimated to be 3.4%, that economic growth is 2%, that inflation is estimated to be 3.5%, then you see what an extraordinary effort is for the state budget. But we did not want to afford what happened 7 years ago, when certain agreements had to be cancelled under the IMF directive, a great deal of lawsuits that eventually cost the state far more than what had to be paid. So the total funding for wages, for the salary increase next year is a billion and 800 million plus the increase in health care. What I would also like to warn you about because it is likely that it is usually in all the discussions on the budget in the Assembly very interesting and that is why and how much material cost increases, so let's see if this growth is justified or that growth is unwarranted. Or when we talk about corruption, about fighting organised crime, we're going to say that we need to fight, and at the same time when these funds, for that amount, we need to raise funds to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health, then we're going to say growing material costs. When we talk about the implementation of pre-accession funds, then we can criticise it here, I will proudly say that the Croatian State, therefore, Government, Ministry of Finance is the percentage of the agreed FARE 2006. 94%, that didn't work out for any country in transition and let's remember what the debates in this same home were a few months ago. A few months ago, it was said here that Croatia will lose all its resources, that we will do nothing. But now he's definitely at 30. The 11th time the FARE 2006 contract was completed, a little less than 94% was agreed, or so Croatia has currently agreed three components of the IPA which do not have any members of the European Union. So that's what we did. But in order to do so in the same or slightly smaller percentage of next year, then we also have to secure the domestic component in the budget. Whoever doesn't believe in these 94% can check in the European Commission's office, so it doesn't turn out at the end, Mr. Deger and I had a common press, so a man would correct me if I possibly said something wrong. So, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, we cannot speak on the one hand, we want to join NATO, we want to increase the technical equipment of the Croatian Army, and when it is installed in the budget, then ask why these material costs have grown. So this growth is total due to the Croatian public, 582.5 million kuna, material costs next year and for all other ministries you will see that the material costs have practically remained at the level of 2008. Retirement for pensions next year is planned to increase by 4.1% or somewhere slightly less than a billion and 400 million kuna, the highest growth in health care allocations, and we have said this because of structural reforms that Milinovic also implements and thus predicts that long-term health debts will be resolved. I remember my debate, from this same place on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, when I told my colleague Church when it came to that, we have to pay the bills that were left in '99. year, God forbid we inherit that same amount when we come or that we can see exactly those who are in continuity that this amount is increasing, unfortunately every year and this is now what Col. Milinovic suggested, practically the only way to finally end up increasing those debts in health care, which will ultimately certainly increase the quality of health services. And on the other hand, if we look at the effect on the economy, then it will certainly affect the economy because ultimately all these unpaid liabilities are directly related to the Croatian economy. Issuance for socially sensitive groups of society, therefore, separation for socially sensitive groups, is projected to increase from 182 million kuna compared to 2008 or, if you look at the percentage, it is 6.6% higher, funds for maternity benefits and child benefits of an increase of 288 million kuna or a percentage of 7.9%. And now we come to what's key and what's going to be the biggest problem next year. We can discuss today in the Assembly that this item should be as big or as big. And don't discuss the whole budget then it might look nice. But when you put it on the left and right, then you come up with what's really the biggest problem today, and that's the deficit. Not a deficit as a deficit, but a problem where we find funds to finance that deficit, because the domestic financial market is limited, and the international financial market at this point does not have a lot of money that would be placed on someone else and would not be placed on its economy. And that is why we are constantly seeking to move towards a zero deficit, to go as a balanced budget, to go with as little deficit as possible, for a simple reason, the state will settle its needs for financing the 2002 and 2003 loans in the first quarter of next year on the foreign market, because it is foreign loans and practically all transactions will be carried out outside Croatia and it will be neutral. But the deficit funding, everything that is taken into the deficit financing on the domestic market, we need to be aware that we have taken every lip to the economy. And we can talk about support like this or like that, and support can be 5 or 10 million. But these are hundreds of millions and billions of which the Croatian economy must receive fresh money. Because if we don't give him that fresh money, if he doesn't... Then my dear MPs and MPs, we can't talk about economic growth because you can't say that you'll create something new if you don't have money. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem with all the problems, and all of our debate on this budget today is basically something we can come to terms with. Because someone likes that some position could be 100 million more here, and someone else that maybe 100 million should be bigger there, in this whole story, it's less important. It's about this deficit. Why? Because with this billion and 100 million euros that the state needs to refinance loans from previous years, I would not be here at all if the loans were created both during one and another government. But what's definitely true, we've had an era between 2001 and 2007, or whatever you want, a time of historically low interest rates. Historically low interest rates. Not in Croatia, but in the global financial market. And you know what credits of several billion kunas mean today, let's say next year the state needs to reprogram about 8.5 billion loans that are in charge, so we got them under interest rates somewhere between 3.6, 3.7 and 4, 4.1%, and today you're going to reprogram them at an interest rate of 7, 7.5 or 8%. Try to recalculate 4% to 8.5 billion, that's over 330 billion budget costs, 330 million, excuse me, I'm sorry, interest-based costs next year. In addition to what the state will have to finance its deficit, reprogramme it, what is a real danger and where we will have to put forth great effort both the Central Bank and the Business Bank, and with this budget to send a clear message that we are able to deal with crisis times, and that is the 8.4 billion euro programme, how much should be reprogrammed by the Croatian economy and 4 billion, how much is the Croatian National Bank's estimate that it will be a current payment account deficit. So these are our problems. That's what we have to do next year, that's what next year we have to create preconditions and I wouldn't want to scare anyone with this. If we don't, the fate of Hungary, Latvia, Ukraine, Serbia, Iceland and others awaits us. My colleagues, there's a colleague, Linic, who's been negotiating with the IMF for four years, I've been negotiating for 3.5 years, and well, all of us who have negotiated with them know what it means.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22510	There will be more opportunities for the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22511	Here, just one sentence, please. We all know what it means when it comes to negotiations with them and when they tell you this can be this much, this can be this much, this can be this much, and on the trail this much, so that there can be no later debate on what the Prime Minister said we would try to reduce the deficit, let's remember the end of 2003 because of pure political collegiation. A budget came due to the IMF directive had to be cut by a billion and a half, and then the government cut it, so not because of what it wanted, but because the IMF said it needed to be cut down and remember the six amendments before the 2003 budget was adopted, just so we don't spend time on it today because you did things like that in a far easier and better time, but not because of what you wanted, but because you were ordered by the IMF. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22512	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr Furio Radin, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee considered the proposal for a state budget as an interested working body in accordance with its work cycle established by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed, of course, part of the budget on funding needs and programmes and activities aimed at achieving the rights of national minorities and protecting and promoting human rights. When it comes to funding for the needs of national minorities in the debate, the focus of the debate was on funding for the needs of national minorities, the debate brought the most attention to the item concerning the financing of associations and institutions of national minorities. These funds are allocated by the Union for National Minorities in the 2009 State Budget proposal to increase it from 5.01% in 2008, below the average growth rate of budgetary expenditure. In other words, we'd get less. In this connection, it is noted that national minorities have a lot of understanding of the difficulties facing the state budget for next year, but it is pointed out that the need for the growth of funds for those purposes to at least monitor the average growth of the expenditure of the state budget. It has been warned that for years these funds have been far below minimum needs and that positive developments have not been achieved in the last few years, with the multi-annual commitment of the national minority to support the government's understanding. The debate also expressed dissatisfaction with the amount of funds foreseen for Croatian minorities in European countries and for Croats outside the country, i.e. funds to assist national minorities abroad for education of children, Croatian citizens and so on. Taking into account inflation, it has been stressed that the funds will then be realistically and less than in 2008, which raises the question of meeting the constitutional obligation of the state to members of the Croatian people outside the country. We know it's part of this board's work, too. It has also been warned of difficult communication at certain levels of ministries that are necessary to obtain the necessary information regarding the implementation of individual projects aimed at achieving the rights of national minorities. When it comes to funding for defenders, it has been concluded that their modest nominal growth that barely maintains the achieved situation has been proposed, so the question has been asked whether this will be sufficient to fulfil the legal obligations of these institutions of exceptional importance for the achievement, promotion and protection of human rights. It was once again warned, as in previous years, that the obligation of all state authorities to, in accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations, have been required specifically to show the funds intended for the exercise of the rights of the child, and which has not always been done. At the end of the debate, the Committee decided in 7 votes for and 2 against the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with the projection of the budget for 2009 and 2010, but with one amendment. On page 28 of the proposed state budget in the section relating to the federal national minorities in the current money donation item, it was also proposed to increase it from 43 million 590 thousand to 44 million 375 thousand 794. The proposed amendment would increase the funding foreseen for 2009 for current donations in line with the average growth in budgetary expenditure, not less, means growth in accordance with growth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The budget law on that amount would reduce the proposed resources, it must always traditionally be our committee and cut for security services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22514	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr Goran Maric, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22515	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister and members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 21st session held on 9 December 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a national budget for 2009, with projections of the state budget for 2010 and 2011 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 5 December 2008. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia together with the relevant acts as the home working body. In the introduction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative pointed out, among other things, that in the 2009 National Budget of the Republic of Croatia, total revenue was planned to amount to €124.6 billion, which is 5.3 more than the 2008 plan. For 2010, the estimated amount of 131.9 billion with an annual growth of 5.8% and for 2011 was estimated at 140.6 billion kuna with a growth of 6.6%. Total business revenues for 2009 are planned at €124.2 billion with an increase of 5.2% of these revenues relate to tax revenues of 56.3% of total operating income. The total expenditure of the 2009 State budget is planned at $128.9 billion. At the same time, according to the 2010 and 2011 projections, the total expenditure of the state budget would achieve an annual growth of 5.1% in 2010, and in 2011 growth of 4.7% compared to 2010. The operating expenditure in 2009 amounts to €12.3 billion with an increase of €8 billion compared to 2008 and the largest part relates to remuneration for citizens and households on the basis of insurance and other benefits for the largest part of pension, health and social benefits of €66.3 billion or €6.6 billion compared to the previous year and expenditure on employees of €23.5 billion, and also a major increase in compensation items for citizens and households is the result of the implementation of the reform of the health system. Budget allocations for health programmes are increasing by 3.7 billion kuna in such a way that 32% of excise duties on tobacco processing are directed to the health system. The shift in total revenues and total expenditure of the state budget in 2009 shows that the government budget deficit of 4.3 billion kuna is planned to be financed by the difference between the total income from the financial assets and the borrowing of 15.1 billion kuna and the total expenditure on financial assets and the repayment of loans of 10.8 billion kuna. The reform of the health system and the growth of the base for the account of employees' salaries in state and public services of 6% are the only expenditure items of the State budget in 2009 which led to the state budget coming out of the balance. In 2009, the deficit of the state budget is 1.3% of gross domestic product, while projections for the next two years show a decrease in the budget deficit in 2010 of 3.7 billion kuna and 1.1% of GDP, in 2011 1.4 billion kuna and 0.4% of GDP respectively. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the following opinions, observations and proposals were presented on the committee. The Committee held an opinion expressing doubts about the implementation of the planned 2009 State budget revenue of €124.6 billion, which represents a growth of 5.3% compared to the 2008 plan, given the expected decrease in economic activity in 2009, and that the proposed deficit in the 2009 State budget was of € 4.3 billion, according to the opinion of the board members, due to the availability of a state administration that unreally supports large investment projects. However, it has been warned that banks in the Republic of Croatia should contribute more to the mitigation of the effects of the financial crisis in such a way as to support the development of the economy in Croatia with greater credit activity with the promotion of the interest rate. The Committee prevailed that the 2009 proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia was objectively planned, given the impact of the global crisis, both financially and economically, whose consequences will inevitably affect the Republic of Croatia in 2009. It has been noted that so far the Republic of Croatia has managed to minimise the effects of the global crisis in quality and financial terms and is currently in a better position than some other countries in our environment. Under such conditions, it is proposed to increase the state budget in 2009 to €128.9 billion with a deficit of € 4.3 billion to ensure that a determined social and economic policy is implemented. After the debate was held, the committee voted in favour of the majority of votes, 7 votes against and 6 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the 2009 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia from the next decisions. Decisions on granting consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters, Decisions on granting consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads, Decisions on granting consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, Decisions on granting consent to the 2009 Finance Plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and Decisions on granting consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22516	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22517	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at its 19th session held on 9 December considered the 2009 proposal for a state budget of the Republic of Croatia with corresponding decisions. We discussed this as an interested working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative presented the main indicators of the 2009 budget. The revenues of $124.6 billion were planned, so 5.3% higher than in 2008 and expenditures of $128.9 billion, so 6.5% higher than in 2008. The deficit is planned at the level of a consolidated country of 4.3 billion kuna, i.e. 1.6% of gross social product, and 1.3% refers to the state budget, while 0.3% to extra-profit users. In the debate, some committee members expressed disagreement with the proposed 2009 budget and highlighted the following problems. First, the problem of funding deficits under the conditions of the global financial crisis, interest growth and banking abstention in the international financial market. Secondly, the problem of covering the deficits on the domestic financial market, which would reduce the share of banks' available credit assets, which would leave the domestic economy without the resources necessary for production and new investments. And third, the problem in the fact that the deficit is mostly due to wage growth in relation to the allocation of budgets to subsidise production and exports. On the other hand, the debate held that the economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia lies is the result of the global crisis and that the state has ensured macroeconomic stability in 2008 with an effective and monetary and fiscal policy so far. Restrictive monetary policy, preserving the stability of the kuna, limiting the placement of banks, also responsible fiscal policy, a thrift budget with a planned deficit of 1.3% of gross social product and the adoption of the Law on the increase of secured deposits from 100,000 to 400 000 kuna, all in 2008 was the response to the threatening crisis, the financial crisis, the drastic accumulation of energy and food, and also the response to possible inflationary pressures taking into account and the behaviour of the population in situations of threatening inflation. Most of the votes, the Committee voiced confidence that this budget is sustainable, that it is in line with the economic forecasts for 2009, to reflect the proportionate crises that threaten both the EU and the wider and recession and other economic disorders, from inflation to deflation, and to express confidence that, in such conditions of the economic environment, this budget will continue to ensure macroeconomic stability. After the debate was held, the Committee, with 7 votes in favour and 4 votes against, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the 2009 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia with its respective decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22518	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. President of the Committee, Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22519	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at the 11th session of December 2008. Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with projection of the State budget for 2010 and '11. The year was delivered by the government of the Republic of Croatia under the number of the team and team to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee considered the issue as an interested working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. Participants in the debate pointed to a relatively satisfactory position of science and education in the 2009 National Budget Proposal, as the projected increase in funds for these purposes is generally more than 3 percentage points higher than the proposed increase in the State budget as a whole. The higher school community has clearly proposed that its needs, an increase of more than 20% partly due to the need for new higher education institutions, you know that these have been sufficient lately, and partly due to the need to follow the increased standards that bring about the implementation of the Bologna Process. The funds directed towards the Ministry of Culture under the same proposal would be less by 6.45% compared to the expected implementation in 2008 and as a priority given by the draft budget for next year to some other ministries and also by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Statements by the proposing representatives show that the level of activity in cultural institutions will be maintained under these conditions, including, which is very important, those newly established as well as the expected movement of salaries of employees in those institutions, but will have to be significantly reduced by works and relevant expenditure on investment maintenance of cultural facilities. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts points out that the 2009 National Budget Proposal has continued a multi-annual trend since 2002 to significantly reduce the growth of budgets for the purposes of our basic scientific and cultural institution, such as the increase of funds that are redistributed from the state budget through ministries of particular science and education, as well as the Ministry of Culture. For this year, it's a clear exception. In this way, not only is the opening of a new Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts library, which is foreseen for 2009 but also some regular programmes, as well as funds for the salaries of employees and personal incomes of academics under special law. Representatives also provided answers to the question why some of the items provided for in the proposal for a national budget for the following year differ sometimes and significantly, are sometimes several hundred million kunas, from the amount for the same purposes mentioned recently in the arguments under some draft laws or pedagogical standards. Clearly, it is the part in which the applicant should provide for the cost of applying the proposed new law or regulations. They also answered these questions, as well as questions related to some of the remaining and specific needs of national minorities, content from pre-school education in which the state budget has fixed obligations. After the debate was held, the Committee reached the following conclusion by a majority of votes, 5 for and 2 against: the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with a projection of the State Budget for 2010 and 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22520	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. President of the Committee, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22521	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister. The Committee for Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Parliament at the 20th session on 10 December discussed the 2009 State Budget proposal for the Republic of Croatia with the State Budget projections for 200 and 2011 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 5 December 2008. The Committee discussed within the meaning of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal for a state budget as an interested working body. The Committee held a joint discussion on the act in question and the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The Committee held the written opinion of the Association of Cities on the act in question. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, the majority of the Committee members supported the 2009 State Budget proposal with projections of the State Budget for 2010 and 2011 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The representative of the Association of Cities explained the opinion of the Association of Cities according to which funds to finance decentralised functions in the section relating to the transfer of funds to employees in units of local, regional and regional self-government would be based by the Law on spatial planning and construction of the "National Journal" No. 76/07. planned in the amount of 45 million kuna for employed employees performing decentralised business planning and construction activities, should be increased to a amount of 168 million 420 thousand 253 kuna. In this regard, the Committee President proposed to establish an amendment aimed at transferring funds for employment in units of local, regional and regional self-government under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, instead of €45 million, to plan a €168 million fund. The proposal did not receive the majority of votes required. The opinion is given that the proposal for the State Budget of Croatia for 2009 is identical to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 in the sense that it does not monitor the crisis caused by global financial developments, as well as leaving the crisis. In this regard, it is pointed out in particular that the 2009 State budget proposal does not provide for interventions to overcome the crisis in the economy. The debate also gave an opinion on how the funds were planned for the local, regional and regional self-government for 2009 were actually less than the resources provided by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, which will negatively reflect the implementation of the development projects of units of local, regional and regional self-government. According to the opinion of part of the board members of the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia with projections of the State Budget for 2010 and 2011, no fiscal decentralisation programme is visible if it is established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the term of office of 2008, 2011. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, as well as the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Finance Plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22522	Thank you. The Health and Social Care Committee? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? The Environmental Protection Committee? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22523	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 20th session held on 9 December 2008, discussed the 2009 State Budget Programme of the Republic of Croatia with projections of the State Budget for 2010 and 2011 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 6 December 2008. In accordance with Article 140 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the proposal as an interested working body. And it is precisely Mr. Shucker's expressed skepticism that this example can be removed, because all representatives, meaning the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the State Security and Rescue Administration, the National Security Council Office, the Security of the Intelligence Agency, the Military Security Intelligence Agency, the Operational Technical Centre and the Security and Information Systems Office, have declared that the funds provided for are sufficient for the implementation of all the laws of established transactions and activities in the following year 2009. For this reason, the Committee on Internal Policy supported this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22524	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Economy? President of the Committee Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22525	Dear Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 9th session of December 2008, the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with projections of the State Budget for 2010 and '11. the year, these proposals of the financial plans outside of the budget beneficiaries for 2009 with projections for 2010 and 2011 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the act of 9 December 2008. The Committee held a discussion on those proposals as an interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement of the Ministry of Finance's representative and explaining the proposals of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 as a whole, and that I am not now stating everything we have heard, but I would like to point out in particular that the representative of the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry and the Water Economy in his opening statement pointed out that although the funds for the division of 0.62 have been slightly reduced to cca 5%, all projects will be completed. First of all, this relates to the implementation of irrigation projects, projects for the construction of regional water supply systems, wastewater disposal and treatment systems, regional development projects and the development and implementation of the Regional Development Strategy. After the opening argument, most committee members supported the adoption of the State budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2009. However, it was noted that although there is a concern about the income of a budget based on profit tax, additional value tax, excise duties and others, and the retention of economic growth to 2%, this will still not negatively affect concrete infrastructure projects and construction projects under way in the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. In this respect, these projects will ensure the economic growth of the regions, but in one other dimension, will strengthen the integrated development of the local community's units, and will enable the use of the European Union pre-accession funds in particular through EIB 2 and EIB 3 programmes that potential regional development. The debate also expressed regret that the draft budget has reduced resources for the wood industry, as it is an economic branch that has significant development potential in the Republic of Croatia, which has been hit greatly by the crisis, and, according to some estimates, plans to release a significant number of workers into the wood processing industry in the coming period. Furthermore, without much debate, most committee members supported the decision-making to give consent to the financial plans of extra- budget beneficiaries for 2009. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority vote of 5 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour, to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with all other relevant decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22526	Thank you. The Tourism Committee? The Committee on Information, Information and Media? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22527	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed the National Budget Proposal as an interested working body. The debate took place in relation to the items in the Committee's section. It is thus concluded that the reduced funds for information are starting with the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, etc. It also draws attention to the fact that information funds are spent non-transparently and that domestic information industry products that are cheaper than foreign ones are neglected. It has also been stopped to cut funds for the parliamentary television for which 700 thousand kuna were allocated in 2008 and now 300 thousand are proposed. The funds of the Central State Office for e-Croatia have also been reduced compared to this year, as well as funds for digital television whose index is only 6.41 compared to this year's funds. In the division of the Ministry of Culture, funds for audio-visual activities and media, information services of HINA and the International Programme of Croatian Radio "The Voice of Croatia" are reduced, and this is particularly important because it can be reflected in the reduction of the work of this programme. Part of the board felt that it was not necessary to ignore what had already been done in the information. They believe that the amount for information has been increased for several years and that a lot of information equipment has been obtained to be further upgraded and maintained. They also consider that certain projects do not need to be duplicated because new items such as the implementation of the Personal Identification Number Act are being conducted. After the debate, the committee concluded, most of the votes, that it supports the adoption of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22528	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22529	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Prime Minister and members of the government, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held at the 13th session of 9 December 2008 discussed the 2009 National Budget Proposal for the Republic of Croatia with the 2010 and 2011 State Budget Project submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 5 December 2008. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. Following the opening presentation of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia expressed satisfaction with the decision not to break the State Service Payments Base Agreement concluded between the Unions of State Services and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The representatives of the trade union on the board believe that the increase in salaries to civil servants should not contribute to the budget deficit but thinks that, through various savings or redistributions between other budgetary users, the deficit may be reduced. They warned of the International Labour Organisation's recommendations to try to preserve jobs even though the crisis followed. Employers' representatives voiced the opposite view that jobs should not be properly guarded but that a positive business environment should be created. Furthermore, part of the Committee considers that reform of public administration, reduction of consumption and reduction of external debt are the first steps to be taken to manage the state budget more rationally. It has been pointed out that keeping the same budget base in 2009 will not reduce any material rights. Most board members welcomed the government's efforts to make great efforts in times of crisis to maintain the social rights achieved and to preserve the standard of socially sensitive groups of citizens. Most board members supported the adoption of the 2009 proposal for a state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22530	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22531	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Prime Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives. For the 2008 budget, I said that the whole system from social to salary built in 2007 had one time bomb in it if there was a change in power to be a burden on the new government and in some way the cowardly egg was inherited by the old new government but something even worse happened that it could not influence and this is the global crisis for which Croatia is not ready again because of this government. Now I can paraphrase one thought, "It'll be worse than it'll be better." On the other hand, how to define this budget. Here, for the first time, we haven't heard anyone say "developmental, social, crisis, rehabilitation," etc., no one has used any such phrase. Let's look into each other's eyes and confess to each other, and you can see that. This is the budget to survive until the local elections in May 2009. What will happen after May 2009 clearly no one knows or anyone here can predict it today. After that, we will have certain rebalancing and until then we need to ensure social peace, avoid protests that may cause more damage to one’s mind than the deficit itself. The only problem is that in these circumstances, no one, unfortunately, wants power which is as bad as it is because we all know that in 2009, it will be a paraphrasing of the prime minister's most difficult year since the war, and in 2010, it will be an even more difficult year. How am I supposed to express myself like that joke when someone pushed someone out of the window on the 16th floor, so when this guy was falling down there on the 8th floor at that level he said it was good? In Croatia, GDP growth will be 2%, all suspect, in the European Union 0.2%. That's why our exports are dropping. There'll be fewer tourists, for example. Credits are dry, no investment. And now the question is, where do you come from in this budget? 2% of gross social product is about 8 billion kuna. This budget is growing by six billion kuna, with extra budget funds we ate the growth of gross social product. At the beginning of the 12th month of this year, the state was in charge of 2.5 billion kuna over unusual two-year vault records and by the end of this year it must borrow another 5.6 billion kuna. In the 12th month alone, the state will be in debt on the domestic market for some billion euros, and the Croatian National Bank, which seems to have fooled the country of the 0% deficit, is also helping it. The HMB has already reduced the level of foreign claims of banks in May, reduced the reserve requirement, but what happens is, all the money is taken by the state, the state of the company is left without domestic credits, neither the state nor the company nor the company can be borrowed out there anymore, and I'm afraid it won't be able to either the bank soon. So the first victims of the 2009 crisis will be our company or our company. 30. 11 means this year when overnight loans were paid at 18.02%, companies are in charge of 81.86 billion kuna in the country, abroad, for another 16.26 billion euros or another 120 billion kuna. If the company runs out of money, then you've pissed off all of us. And that's a bigger problem, and that's where I agree absolutely with Minister Schucker and from the deficit itself. Not that we're going to lose 40, 50,000 jobs, but maybe far more. Somewhere I read in the evening one black script, they mention 150 thousand jobs less in 2009, clearly, it will not happen, but what was indicative of that article when they list where it could be lost, the worker says in the administration, either local, or state, everyone will have a job. The race for money has just begun, it's just gone. The Croatian National Bank will free the banks of 800m euros in the first quarter of 2009 and this will be taken by the state to pay the dues at that time. The country in the quarter is reaching 578m euros in capital, 189.7m euros in banks, 808.5m euros in companies. In the first quarter alone, we need to find a billion and 600 million euros, to pay off a loan or two times more than the Croatian National Bank of Money will release and in 2009 it is necessary to repay 6.85 billion euros in principal plus 1 billion 140 million euros in interest, or cca. Nine billion euros. That will say Croatia will not avoid the intervention of the International Monetary Fund. And the central issue of today's debate. Can the prime minister, whether the finance minister can guarantee us that Croatia will not fall under the IMF's attack, and that means lower salaries and declines in kuna and inflation, and so on. It is not the point that the Croatian state, companies, banks, will return 9 billion euros in 2009. We clearly can't take it back. So the basic business of which depends whether Croatia avoids the arrival of the IMF is not whether we will return the money, we do not have it. So the basic job is whether or not we're going to be able to extend the payment of the due loans. How on the other hand, we will serve 28 to 30 billion dollars in imports, if banks and businesses are not in debt abroad for 5.6 billion euros in 2009, nobody knows that, but without imports, the Croatian budget is also falling apart. I'm not gonna say, like, facebooks, "Stuck and you belt, gang thief," say, we're looking for solutions, we're not offering them. We offered solutions in the IDS through that syntagma, so let's give it to Croatia. Just to remind you, Istria has a renovated shipbuilding, the city of Pula has written off almost one entire budget to Uljanika, it is a positive business, without any state guarantee, we have self-recovered the Istrian bank, our exports are, say, twice as large as the export of the Primorje-Gorski County, we have more jobs in 2008, than in the '90s, less unemployment than in the 1990s, and the industry is the only one in Istria that is the first economic branch in a single county's GDP, but I'm afraid the crisis is going to take us seriously. On the other hand, in the budget, Istria is almost not represented. The central issue is the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So how to save the country's economic, budget base, because there we all agree the budget is social, it's pensions, it's wages, it's development, it's health, education, security, economic recovery, and incentives and how to save a citizen. How do you save them both state and citizen? So we can save the companies. It's just that no one's gonna make it to the loan. Any credit before the company will be taken by the state. Therefore, the only solution left to the state is to play with VAT. Not to reduce it, it's simply unrealistic at the moment. 1% of VAT is less, 2 billion kuna than 124 billion kuna revenue per VAT waste is 44.3 billion kuna or more than 1 third of income. It would be ideal for what the economy is proposing now, but there is still no way in the world that VAT is paid per charged and not invoiced goods, and that means the solution is, and that we keep 44 billion kuna in the budget and help businesses not pay VAT more within 30 days, because such a short deadline has only Croatia but to pay within 60 days. We are at import, watch out, small pay VAT and customs, within 8 days, within 8 days, before that was 30 days, now from July or 6 months the import of goods, VAT duties within 8 days. It's a crime against that little entrepreneurship. Why? Because a big country always travels the possibility for 30 days, but the kid has to pay right away. If we could just do that to him, I'd say we'd save him ten thousand jobs. We don't have money for intervention funds in the economy. We for the investment in the budget, the prime minister said, it says, we only have 3.6 billion kuna, plus those extra budget funds cca. So much money, that's about 7 billion kuna. Well, that's the only way we can help the economy. Citizens, where are they? What's the biggest problem? So the interest on loans was raised at 10 months compared to 5 months by 30 to 40%, in the world of interest falls, in us rises drastically. Citizens owe 120 billion kuna, businesses on those 82 billion kunas to domestic banks, another 16.5 billion kuna abroad. So interest should be returned to the one from early 2008 and the banks certainly can if they want to. The third IDS didn't tip to freeze wages, they didn't pay the problem. They may also be rudely small and to teachers and professors, both officials and police officers and doctors and nurses and customs officers, etc., finally without encouraging consumption, neither will the budget be charged nor the contribution will grow, nor the traders will survive except for clearly large ones, but the problem is that from 2003 to 2008, the number of public administration employees, police, defence, social security, health care is increased by 30 thousand and the money in the budget is wrongly distributed for various bridges and political projects on the principle that money goes exclusively where HDZ is in power. And because of where we've lost money, billions and billions of kuna due to the constant coverage of the loss of various activities and which has clearly fallen into the wrong content and so on. What do we need that Peljek Bridge for 419 million kuna next year? He says, some say of the export of Mandarins from Dubrovnik County whose export is $40m and my little Buzet with 6 thousand residents "vis avis" Cimos before only $100m. So let's start building the Učka tunnel because if you don't want to rightly let Croatia's south connect to Croatia via Bosnia why the Istrian railways with Croatia must be connected via Slovenia. Fourth, Mr. Prime Minister, let the men work. Don't stop them from working. Why do we defend Sunday's work in the season after 14 hours where traders say the budget will run out of EUR 50 million. This year, the church will receive 283 million kuna plus 50 million kuna from the mandatory reserve. Okay, I don't mind. But why defend traders in the season to work on Sundays when they're busy at 8, 9 or 10 o'clock and clearly let the workers get paid. How did I, on the other hand, understand this original government decision to freeze wages? To be honest, if it freezes in the public sector, then the wages can be frozen in the private sector where they've already started to fall, so it's the only thing that's going to cause this rising avalanche avalanche up by the principle: We do, we're getting paid down, we're losing jobs, and you're living from the economy, you're raising your wages. Finally, trade unions act only in the public sector and so on are also the problem. Where is the Croatian problem today when everyone is talking about exports, more production, deindustrious Croatia, which we stopped every relevant investment in 2008 to 2000 through 2008. On the other hand, we drove everything away. From gas, LNG, hotels, golfes, company Adriu, economic investment we have driven everything away and I claim it was the biggest crime against the state in that period. Unaware but a crime, one fatal crime because we lost 4.5 billion euros in investment but even if we had 50 thousand jobs more, how many we might lose in 2009. Just one sentence about shipbuilding. By the end of 2008, the state was due to pay off on the basis of a guarantee of 4.6 billion kuna. For Split a billion 900, third May a billion 400, Trogir 800 million kuna, Queen 500 million kuna. For the 0 Kuna Oilman. For, someone, this has to be answered and must be answered by a criminal and do not touch the Oil Man, do not privatize him. And for the end, you need to clearly help the government. I don't envy her, but the responsibility is on her, because in five years, except for Lance, she didn't have the courage for some fundamental reform. And for failing to run as promised by Croatia. So the best new deal would be new elections. True, the Bible cannot be avoided either, for after seven good years, seven hard years come. In 2009, it was the first in a series of difficult years. We couldn't get ready. The clear breakdown of the European Union has affected everyone, eventually and them, and now I don't know if anyone will cry out as much as 1945. "Earth to peasants and factory workers!" I don't know if we're going to get Putin who could just say it, but no matter what I think they should be carrying the burden of the crisis...... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Trieste is our says prime minister. And Gorica to half. No, we don't just have to disrespect those fighters because they owe us a lot of money... I didn't say we wouldn't vote for the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22532	Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the inaccuracy of counterparts Kajin, who said: "Croatia was reluctant to welcome the global financial crisis, and this is the fault of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." Croatia is indeed part of the global economy and part of the global financial sector, but Croatia is among the few countries in which the government was not supposed to save any financial institution or... any economic operator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this claim, colleague Cain has no argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22534	Second correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22535	Dear Vice-President, it is incorrect that Agent Caine should, where she says the prime minister defends Sunday's work. Well, we've already been on the subject since the parrots repeated several times that it's a social partners agreement on the Economic and Social Council, and to the insistence of the union and then to address that address. It has nothing to do with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22536	And the third lady representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22537	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect that Mr. Cain is being built to export or export some Mandarins. It is true that the Pelješki bridge is being built to unite itself finally in the transport sense of the Croatian state and that the Croatian South would finally feel part of Croatia in the right sense of the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22538	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we from the government will take care that the debate at least as far as we're concerned leads in moderation and leads to arguments and that we will react there when we consider it necessary. I consider it necessary here to react to what Mr. Kajin said also about Istria, as well as about other parts of Croatia. Both I and the Government and I can say about the coalition as a whole we absolutely hold that priority and that principle as the most important principle, which is that the development of all Croatian parts is of the same importance to us. No single area is preferred, no region is preferred, no county, no city, no municipality is preferred. And it doesn't matter who's in power there. It doesn't matter who's in power there. And that's why Istra, Mr. Representative, has, just over the past five years, the first and second of my government, now in a different configuration, experienced much more government support. These are the words of your officials, rather than in previous governments. And that's something I didn't say, but I quote your county officials as well as the mayor himself. That's one thing. Second, if the railroad needs to go and I'll say it right now, through Ucka. You should. We need that project. You should. Are we going to make it happen? We will. When. I'm sure we won't be able to begin this year. But that can't be why the Peles Bridge isn't going. The Peljeski bridge I often spoke in the Croatian Parliament, I will repeat today, the Pelješki bridge is a matter of Croatian national pride. We cannot allow a Croatian citizen from the south of the country when going to a car in another city or municipality to carry with them personal documents, ID card or passport. Where do they have to go? When you're going from town to town. You're not crossing the line, are you? So, Mrs. Zgrebec tells me that you have to wear a passport in Croatia when you're going from town to town. It's brand-new to me. On the other hand, the Pelješki bridge means not only that, after hundreds of years of territorial integration of Croatia but also the revitalisation of the very end, the southernmost Croatian region, which in the Homeland War was one of the first goals and in the great aggression when it was said Dubrovnik was ours, and even some of the religious Dubrovnikians remember Ace Apolonia, etc. who spoke and we will declare the Republic of Dubrovnik, etc. So, it has an extremely political, national, economic and any other importance, and that is why we are aware of it in the budget that the Peljega Bridge is moving on, but not in that amount, so I will tell the Croatian public in which it was originally planned three months ago in 500 million kuna for 2009, but it will go with 300 million kuna. So, the Peles Bridge is going, but its end is being extended not in 4 years, but maybe in 5. We are also discussing today there will be discussions that perhaps this Bjelovar-Koprivnica Ipsion, yes and perhaps even in the situation as difficult as it is, but if we want to think about the future that not losing dynamics might be considered and it will also be one of the decisions in the next few days to go the highway rather than the fast road. Therefore, we are thinking about every Croatian end just as we will not slow down the highway Djakovo – Osijek, but will be open in the next few months, just as we will not slow down the highway towards Sisak, just as we have finished the highway to Rijeka thank God at last I do not attribute it to myself and to the government, but I attribute the fact that the Croatian voters chose us and that we had the honor to finish that highway which was a thorn in our eyes, because we were already in the 1990s when she knew it was not good to go half the highway, but it was meant to go the whole highway. So in situations like these, and they're exceptional, I don't want to draw the devil on the board here like one side of a saying and say it. But some who do this work in the world and in Europe say that it may be a much more difficult crisis than it is supposed to be today. And that's why, with all that in mind, we've proposed this budget. But this is neither the time nor the place to be threatened under such circumstances is that Istria is forgotten or that Dalmatia is forgotten either Lika or Slavonia or any other Croatian region. So less politics and more arguments. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22540	Thank you. Two corrections. One Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22541	You say Mr. President that you think about every Croatian end. But I would say or ask you a question, do you think about Istria? This year 37 million kuna is secured in this capital investment budget, even less last year. They were slaughtered even less than last year. [[Agreement: Comrade Cain, make a correction.]] Correction to what the Prime Minister said among other things about Istria’s experience, I quote: “A lot more support. ” Whoever said that, even if it was Mayor Jakovcic, and I don't agree with him if he said it or with you who confirmed it, you transmitted it. For 15 years de facto Istria has been neglected and it needs to be clearly and unequivocally said and... And they rightly expect that Istria will be present in the Republic of Croatia's budget someday. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You say the Peljek Bridge is the pride of Croatia. But let's wait a minute. It may also be saved on the Učka tunnel, but also on the Pelješa Bridge, and there may be other priorities in Croatia that will bring greater benefits both Istria and Dubrovnik-Neretljan County than the Peljega Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22542	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22543	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Prime Minister Sanader's claim that we were building a bridge so that Croatian citizens could travel without documents. We have to do this and now we have the documents to travel between the two cities. But I'd like to say one another harder. In addition, Mr Sanader is a much cheaper, better quality and more efficient way to connect the eastern and southern and northern parts of Croatia than it is the Pelješki bridge and therefore we think that the Pelješki bridge could be better resolved in other ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22544	For the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go. What's the matter? So very quickly, counterpart Milanovic crossed mentally. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22545	Yeah, yeah. Mentally, yes. That mental map is in some other briefcases. But anyway, I'm sure of my best intentions. Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, respected members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It was not intended to de-polmise with the prime minister, however, with this second performance gave me a small reason to argue that when it says that this is not the place and time for this kind of conversation then I say this is always the place, the question is whether it's time. Your intervention was an intervention in the role of local elections. You've been talking about projects that you're going to finance from the budget you've proposed to this House and this is the place and time. The Peljeski bridge, and hardly anyone in this country and this Assembly can be against projects, especially projects on which Croatian companies are working in which Croatian materials are being built, but also priority issues. Of course, Croatian pride is important. I won't say there are no more important things, but it's one of the most important things for every citizen in this country. But there are alternatives, there are highways. Let's just say you know that 45 years of Western Germany with Berlin at the time of the blackest Cold War was connected by the highway that people were free to travel. Perhaps it is a solution to the integration of Dubrovnik and Croatia. I purposely move in this way with one small digression to encourage this kind of debate, and this is Croatian pride and Croatian practicality and Croatian wallet in Croatian pocket. The budget deadline has been broken, and the laws need to be respected. In this case, we see how deadlines are interpreted. In one case, a period of 8 days to return to the Assembly is too much, and in this case, the deadline is instructive and can be violated. So that deadline was broken, so the government came before the Parliament with one proposal and we'll see, we'll suspect that during this debate, it will be changed to the amendments from the bench of the ruling and to the government itself. But it is good that this proposal finally came to the Croatian Parliament, it is not good that it is late, but now we know what we have on the table and we are talking about it here. Thus, the budget is a fundamental instrument of fiscal and economic policy and as such clear and clear speeches that are the real intentions of the Government. But what we see the problem is that this budget is not an element of economic policy, but above all, more than the economic instrument of the political economy. So, political economies as authorities and as a series of political intentions, and as we stand with economic policy in Croatia, perhaps most objectively without the day-to-day political motives that we often know to fall under, says a report on the progress of the European Commission, which classifies Croatia's economic policy as non-existent, i.e. to quote "ad hoc". And "ad hoc" economic policy is not an economic policy, but a set of temporary palitative measures, and that is what the European Commission is talking about, and no one openly opposed it in talks with the Commission. This 2009 budget should be adopted under particularly difficult conditions which have not been recorded in Croatia for a long time. That's what the economic profession says, says the opposition, and that's what the government admits. And that is why it is more important than how the Government will behave in such a situation, and how it will apply and how this most important instrument is managed by almost or about 50% of the total Croatian social product. What we have been talking about for years, and what professional circles and the Croatian public agree on, and even some members of the government, is that Croatia spends more than real opportunities. At this point, we are talking about the responsibility of the state when it comes to its multi-year deficit in relation to the really limited effects that such policy has received. All of what the government has been putting off for years when it comes to state administration reform, public business reform, support, corporate recoverys in even more difficult state-owned property, is now being charged. And maybe it could be said that the global financial crisis is just, or above all, the trigger, but it's not the real cause of our problems, and maybe for us as a society and an economy, it wouldn't be bad if that crisis had happened a few years ago to make us wake up and figure out what our problem is. Because covering foreign debt deficits is a policy that cannot be permanent. It's running from reality. And that is why we see this budget primarily as one failed copy of last year's budget and we do not see the answers to the key Croatian problems. Enough to say that already this year, the current balance of payments deficits will increase from 8.6 to as much as 10% of gross domestic product or by 4.2 billion euros. When this adds to the 7.3 billion-euro and billion-euro repayments, the total liabilities of all sectors exceed 12 billion euros. We here often know how to settle the sovereign debt, public debt, the debt of the central state from the debt of the economy, the citizens, but it's all one debt. It is the debt of this country, of its people, of this generation and of the generation that comes and for it is most responsible in a positive and negative sense of government. If the state doesn't care about that, the state that takes 50% of everything in this country, then it doesn't make much sense. Foreign debt growth is expected by the end of 2008 from 33.3 to 37 billion euros, or almost 90% of GDP, and in 2009, the repayment of the foreign debt and interest principal, which is even 30% higher than in 2008 and given the dramaticly altered foreign borrowing circumstances, retaining commitments at least at the level of 2008 is not only a matter of realistic assessment of the possibility, but also of showing seriousness and credibility in relation to international financial institutions. Unfortunately, the government's proposed budget does not show that the state is ready to make a turn in its fiscal policy and that it would point to the need for other entities in this country to behave more rationally in global but also in our internal crisis. Just a few months ago, the government assured us that Croatia would bypass the financial economic crisis. When the credit arrangements with HBOR and HAC were rejected and the inflows into the current expenditure financing budget were slowed, concerns prevailed. And just when we thought that the government had become aware of the risk, if it had continued to behave in a lack of rationale, the draft budget with a new deficit came into the House, and that, where we see a much bigger problem without a clear scheme of its funding and with a considerable risk, but certainly increased costs of new borrowing. A few days ago, the government strongly advocated a zero deficit. We don't come here as prophets. The position of the SDP and the people in the SDP who are talking about it is that the deficit, if there is one, should be managed. It is not in itself a bogeyman, it is not a failure and in the extreme line of policies of many developed European countries in the coming year it foresees quite a deficit, significantly above the 3 per cent convergence criteria. But the question is, can you deal with it and if you can't, why can't you? We wouldn't be Social Democrats if we didn't put the protection of the jobs of workers, pensioners and those who needed them at risk. We therefore support the requirements to maintain the standard of living in 2009 of these people who depend directly on the budget. But we also think that under these conditions, the government had to clearly and transparently point out what other items would achieve savings and reduce the need for new borrowing. Some examples from this budget that there are many, which point to an unusual attitude towards economic policy and the economy. Incentives in production in this division through support for craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are less by 20% and encourage business zones by 13%. Incentives to restructure and boost the competitiveness of the industrial sector are down 30%, fostering agricultural production have been reduced by almost 12% but at the same time the cost of salaries in the ministry has increased by 25%. The budget of the Ministry of Regional Development has been reduced by 5%, the Fund for Development and Employment by 20%, and the Regional Development Fund is more than 30%, while as much as 35% less funds are reserved for the development of Croatian islands. With all this, the government has been insisting on projects that some call Podkin's villages, and I don't think they are. I don't think the Peljek Bridge is Podkin's village either, I think he has some kind of duck, too, so he can have his own reason. The question is the right choice and the question is that we finally see something, because Podkin's villages were visible to Empress Catherine. We can't see the Peles Bridge after five years, we can't see anything. One of the fundamental dilemmas of this budget are assumptions on which economic assumptions, international assumptions and other assumptions are based. Many are skeptical of the planned rate of growth of 2%. The Minister here, Minister of Finance Mr. Schucker spoke of examples of other countries in the European Union, the so-called state. The transitions that this transition has already been googled. And other than Hungary, which was preceded by negative economic growth next year, all of these countries spoken of by the minister or almost all, including countries from the region that are at a lower level of negotiations with the European Union than Croatia, have a growth forecast of more than 2%, but up to one. Every single one, even two out of the three Baltic states the minister spoke of. How realistic that is, that's another question. How realistic these Croatian 2% is is the same question for themselves. However, the fact is that we are talking here from countries that have enjoyed significantly higher rates of growth than Croatia for years, and some of the double-digit rates of annual growth of 10% as a Baltic state. So when we compare, then we need to be clear to the end and say what really are the circumstances of what has been going on there for the last ten years. The other unknowns are hidden deficits. The government itself acknowledged that health reform and the state of shipbuilding represent an unknown and risk to the 2009 budget and deepening deficits. How come these risks aren't put into the budget? Why we ask the government to manifest itself and to know the public of which and how many risks this could ultimately mean for the budget deficit, and we see that shipbuilding sites after 5 years of avoidance of reforms are not well written. Finally, our view is that the government must have a clear anti-recession policy in relation to the economy. We don't see it in the budget. This means that the structure of this budget must be more clearly supported by the crisis of the economic sectors at risk. The government cannot prefer one sector at the heart of those who are objectively and truly at risk. In doing so, we are referring to large infrastructure projects and construction projects on the one hand in relation to wood, textile, footwear or metal industry whose survival is threatened by this crisis, and there is also a real danger that under the conditions of limited access to capital deficits and planned government borrowing on the domestic market of more than 7 billion kuna, to a significant extent the pressure sector and creates additional funding problems. Practically disable it and a few people have talked about it here. We are also looking for a clear plan of state debt financing and an answer to the question of how to raise the necessary money without bringing to a subordinate position the economy and the population, the standard of living and new investment as a cornerstone of economic growth. And for the end of two things. The European Union, as it is, in some things strict and binding, in some things only co-ordinated, passed through the European Commission a few weeks ago and proposed a recovery plan, a recovery plan. It may be a list of beautiful desires some of which will be translated by community instruments, and some are left to the state. I suggest and recommend that everyone, especially the members of the government, go through this in detail, because I don't see such a thing in Croatia. What it says cannot be fully realised, but it shows a very serious and thorough relationship with problems, shows current measures and medium-term measures of which 70 to 80% will be implemented. Then when we do so in Croatia and think about it, then we can expect happier and better days. This budget is what it is, it will be subject to amendments from the ruling benches, but we have no illusion that we can fix it and we find it deeply incompetent. We believe that he is unable to respond to Croatian problems, and therefore from the SDP club there will be no amendment to this agreement. There will be a debate in which concrete examples will be cited through the discussions, but the amendment will not be. For the end and really for the very end if you'll let me, I think we're wasting our time. As the late Vlado Gotovina said, if you silence the poet, and the poet's enthusiasm should have a government in this case, there will be a safer moment, but the time will be lost, and this time we lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22546	Thank you. Two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22547	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, the government's representatives. I will correct only one incorrect allegation, of course more, that is, the claim made by Mr Milanovic that Croatia has neither economic nor economic policy. This claim is simply not true, because bad economic and economic policy is still politics, and that policy... Just let me finish. However, this poor policy was valid for the period 2000 to 2003, and Croatia has a good economic policy today, according to a number of data. So I'm correcting an incorrect quote. Gross domestic product increased 50%, the number of unemployed by 100,000, the unemployment rate dropped to 8.7%, so the lowest in the history of the Croatian state. So the assumption that Croatia does not have a good economic and economic policy simply does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22548	And Mrs. Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22549	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with ministers, colleagues. I am correcting Mr Milanovic's incorrect allegations that this draft budget is deeply incompetent. Incorrectly, you said you were sorry that this budget proposal was deeply incompetent. That's not true. It is precisely true that we have succeeded in a determined and stable government fiscal policy that was at the centre, a rational state consumption, financial discipline and a reduction of deficits during previous years of high economic growth to save and be ready to enter possible periods of lower growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22550	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22552	Is there a problem with the voice?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22553	I don't know. I'm fine with it, and if you hear it, I don't know. Do I get this minute...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22554	No, of course not. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22555	Is that better? ... I'll try. [[Everyone's talking in a voice, you can't hear it.]] Here's a better one. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll try a little louder. Since we have heard a pretty good story that bad economic policy, politics, definitely in this environment, and we are also discussing this budget today and we are absolutely certain that this proposal for a budget that we have received, the draft state budget, we at the Croatian People's Party Club for a whole series of reasons cannot support it and we will not support it. In fact, the fact is, and I just don't want it to be understood as politicizing, and I also want to take the proposal of Mr. Shuker's Finance Minister, his call for a positive rhetoric. However, current economic and financial... in Croatia reminds us of the time in the late 1990s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This time today was very similar, and we today discussed the State Budget for 2008 and we at the Croatian People's Party's Club want to discuss or have a position based on five areas: 1. is the ratio of revenue and expenditure of the budget, 2nd economic policy, 3rd planned revenue, 4th budget deficit and 5th message of this budget to the Croatian public, and each budget, especially this budget, has the obligation to send a message at this time. The ratio of income and expenditure. What's our income and expenditure ratio? I think I'm going to show it the brightest way. These are incomes, and these are expenses. What is missing is about 2.5 billion euros in debt almost or almost every year. These revenues indicate how much the Croatian economy produces through products, through services. These revenues also talk about the results of measures so far in training our economy. And I believe that in this debate of ours about this state budget, we need to talk about these revenues, and that we need to concentrate and focus on these revenues. In terms of expenditure, nothing new in these expenditures. We've got tables that we've had for many years. The tables are filled depending on how much a minister has a stronger impact on the prime minister or a slightly less powerful one, and this is then measured by 2 or 5% increase or by a few percentages of budget cuts. But in any case, when we talk about expenditures there's really no need to waste words, there's really no need to discuss it because it's a sequence that hasn't been since yesterday but for many years. This projection of the state budget is the fact that we have budget losers. It's not good that they're entrepreneurs, it's not good that they're workers, it's not good that they're peasants. I'm willing to talk about absolute amounts and percentage amounts, but there's no need, I think we've all read the budget, that we have this dimension, and it's not the point of politicizing. The winners by this budget may be considered by the military, the police and the entire state administration. The army must have an excuse. Given our desire to enter the NATO Pact, I'm sure we need to modernise the military. In this regard, I do not want to ask why this has not been done so far, but in what extent. And believe me, those who decide our entry are the same economic problems and will surely understand the problems that we have, and when we talk about the costs of modernising our army. The police, definitely something that needs to be supported and I don't want to be special and there's no need to specifically look back, but when we talk about the entire state administration, we really have a lot to say about it, and I'll say something about it later. However, the fact is that we also get two sides of Croatia from these budget losers and budgetary winners. Is this where their mutual harmony is achieved that is necessary and necessary and that should be guaranteed in the budget? Entrepreneurs, peasants, workers will rightly be concerned about budgetary solutions as all the discussions on the crisis itself have discussed the need to invest in the protection of the domestic economy, the promotion of domestic food production with job protection. In this budget these items are quite invisible. And whether or not we will, the key question is whether this way and this budget will ensure the harmony of the state and society, and whether this budget will make it possible to make money, not to refer to savings, especially when there is nothing to be saved. Second, economic policy or more precisely the continuity of our economic policy. The economy has long been in stagnation and recession. Under these conditions, budget filling is difficult, and banks are reluctant to lend loans, and in particular lately they are not sure that they will manage to collect even from the state their claims. For years, Croatian society has spent about 2.5 billion euros more than goods and services, resulting in the borrowing of a cumulative external debt of 37 billion euros. According to responsible estimates of the growth of the Croatian economy in 2009, it will be closer to a zero growth rate than an increase of 2% with the possibility of a negative rate, which is why our economy is very vulnerable, for example. The increase in interest rates on the world market of only 1% of Croatia is increasing by 350m euros per year. All of this together leads to a great vulnerability of the economy and over-indebtedness. In this draft budget, there is no clear systematic measure, a measure that would systematically be focused on how to produce more and make money that could then be spent. Third, planned revenue. The revenues under the draft budget will be very difficult to achieve on the revenue side and expect the budget deficit of 4.3 billion kuna to be higher, along with the lost side. It is absurd to expect that the revenues of the state budget will be higher than this year's revenues next year. For several very clear and objective reasons, first because of the caution and reduction of household income, domestic consumption will certainly not grow, though. Because of the decrease in consumption and difficulty in accessing loans, domestic production will certainly not grow, and it is certainly not for export production, due to the recession on many foreign markets, due to the unprepared Croatian economy, as well as the difficult financing will also not grow. The next year, foreign tourists will certainly not be more numerous or expected to spend more than this year, even if the golf courses we discussed yesterday were built. Golf courses that, after a whole series of anti-corruption laws, give that other counterweight, let's re-create something to satisfy both our habits and needs. The key contribution of this proposal to the state budget is taxes based on three key taxes and whose increase can be freely said absurdly for expected. The increase in VAT collection revenues that I do not now count the figures, but the increase predicted by 700 million kuna, account for 3.9% of the increase, are based on reduced consumption, on reductions in imports, on reduced credit activities and on reduced investment activities. Where did the VAT increase come from? very likely this will cause and send corrections and replicas, but my question is given the increase in VAT based on unreal potential and potential, I ask if the government is preparing an increase in VAT? 22% higher. Next, the loss of income from profit tax, 10 billion 3.6%. Well, gentlemen, the dear Croatian economy has been in crisis for a long time, especially in structural, long time before the global and support of this budget. Next, it is absurd to expect that something more significant will happen in the economy, resulting in a significant increase in the amount of profit tax. Expensive income growth, 9 billion or 2% increase. And excise duties are based on fuel prices. Even though the price of oil falls, it has no impact on the excise duty, but the fact that fuel becomes a luxury element, that fact says there will be less and less spending and the fact that even excise duties from the state budget will be less. There will be fewer liters of fuel spent by the Ministers, all of which is clear to me what you want to say, but there will be fewer spent liters of fuel, because the fuel prices will no matter how low they are, become a luxury for our constructions. Cigarettes will have a drop in excise charges, as a ban is imposed on smoking in public places, but those who continue to smoke will have to switch to cheaper cigarettes, alcohol will surely be more drunk. However, the purchase will be able to drink cheaper drinks and, therefore, there will be less excise duties, but we are also facing a new threat due to cheaper and lower quality of cigarettes, because of cheaper and lower quality of alcohol, there is a possibility that the health situation will increase costs. The very definition of the budget, the budget deficit, it's important that we all know that, and I want to do it again. That it is important whether budget spending is spent in consumption, budget spending deficits or in development. We're not against an increase in civil servants' salaries, but we are in order to bind their salaries to productivity, to efficiency. We're not against making it impossible for nurses to raise their salaries by 300 kuna, but we are against inefficient public administrations increasing salaries, no matter what happens. We have recently discussed parafiscal intrusions 12.5 billion are paying to this country citizens and businesses, and what is the mistake or the responsibility of the state administration in such an effort. That we did a post-benefit analysis for incentives? If we'd done that, here's only in the agricultural position. Surely these funds that we allocate are probably not enough, but with the following "Bought Croatian", let's buy Croatian agricultural products people we will be hungry, because without imports we can't function, and huge funds without food imports, Mrs. Petir, we can't function. And why does she import? We're not against these infrastructure projects that are proposed. The Peles Bridge, we are for it and four strips and below it and a walking passageway. But at this point, does the Croatian economy have the strength to do so? We certainly and support these projects, especially if at this time the Government of the Republic of Croatia manages to find some rich sheik who is willing to donate $2 billion to us, so let's make it out of that money. And don't let me see it blink. This proposal of the state budget certainly does not send us a message on a key issue, which is how to create a new value, especially at the moment when we do not have the possibility of borrowing and especially on foreign markets. And that is why the Croatian People's Party proposes several measures, which is Croatia's first one because of its over-indebtedness should go towards a balanced budget but from the redistribution of budgetary expenditures towards fostering economic activity with a short and medium-term outcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22556	A colleague, please. You'll have that later in the discussion of the other individual, now it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22557	I think I have the right to the minute we were testing Parliament's technique, so let me finish at the end of the final. A budget that does not open up opportunities for long-standing harmony between the state and society, which is particularly evident in the creation of jobs at this time in the preservation and rescue of jobs, the growth of wages, at this time ensuring regular payouts, the increase and standard of health care, the building of schools and raising the conditions for increasing knowledge, the Croatian People's Party is not ready to support and will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22558	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22559	Mr. Vice President. Kolega Koračević argues, says the economy is still in a state of stagnation and the recession that we certainly cannot agree with, it is an absolutely wrong allegation. Finally, let's remember at least while I followed up a year ago the profit tax went to us here almost 30% annual growth, rate. Reduced unemployment, there's a whole series of arguments that will claim otherwise. Secondly, I was going to say that we've heard a lot of claims that by the end of this year there'll be 200 bucks of oil barrels. Thank God everything people say doesn't come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22560	Second correction Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22561	You tell your colleague that the Law on Golf Courses will create something that will satisfy someone's habits and needs. The law on golf courses that was discussed in this House yesterday at the late hour, which is why there's not a single word in the paper today because the press is gone. And that's exactly why it was debated so late, nothing will be created. He's the law that's gonna... The law is a means to confiscate private property of citizens, property units of local self-government and state property and to give into the hands of a few people chosen in advance to create an enormous wealth at the expense of the citizens of this country and this state. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22562	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22563	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Koračević said that without imports of agricultural products, we will be hungry. This is not only an incorrect allegation, it is an anti-Croatian policy because Croatia is able to produce sufficient quantities of quality food, only we all need to make sure that food is placed on the market and in tourism. And in any case, the action "Let's Buy Croatian" makes sense because this action protects our Croatian jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22564	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22565	Mr. Vice President. Article 230 and then on. Anyway, I'm in my debate saying that at this point without importing food we're hungry, at this point. And I believe that in the future, we're going to create conditions, and that's why I point out that for every incentive, a cos benefit analysis is being made whether we're able to do this, whether these money goes into the right hands and whether these money creates a new value.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22566	And Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22567	Dear Vice President, colleague Korachević told a lie. It says budget losers will be workers and will also be around opening these jobs. So if he read the budget then he could see and he could hear if he hadn't read that the collective contract for civil servants and deputies was respected that their salaries would grow 6% next year, that the budget base of which determines most employee benefits would not be reduced, so there will be no reduction of any material right, that the increased allocation for the implementation of preparations for employment, only the employment of as much as seven times as it was spent this year, that 5% more funding is planned to be spent to implement active employment policy than this year. And for the Roma employment program, twice as much. So if he'd read it, he wouldn't have said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22568	Thank you. At 12.46, it expired for the application of a ten-minute hearing, which was reported by 66 MPs and lawmakers. SDSS representative club Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22569	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In earlier years, representatives of clubs in this House, especially clubs on the left side of this assembly in their individual stages, could be expected to ask the question of where the hospital is in my municipality, where the road is in my county, where the school is in my village, but I'm afraid this year in relation to this budget, it doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense because it seems to us all that it should be clear that there is no point in discussing such a proposal for a budget on these matters. That way, I will not speak of any specific items related to my mandate or what is the basis of a coalition agreement between my party and other parties in the ruling coalition. But I'm gonna take this opportunity here because elsewhere I haven't had the opportunity to say anything about this kind of budget proposal, something that seems necessary to me to say. This budget is obviously a clear result of some kind of compromise, some kind of social corporate compromise, and for several reasons. First, because we are not actually prepared for the year that is coming and because we do not really have the right answer to be put before the elements of the crisis that creates the international financial crisis and at the same time creates our internal crisis, primarily the crisis of action, but also some other forms of crisis. For this reason, it seems to me that we may be voting this budget the way it was proposed, but that we are actually looking forward to a real budget job. In other words, we will adopt these numerical data here, we will adopt what is agreed between unions, employers, government and other social entities, but on what and how we will realise it is actually as could be heard not only from the representatives of the opposition, but also from the government, the coalition government that I belong to, in fact, still unclear. With this budget, we have bought some kind of peace of political, social and that in itself doesn't have to be bad if it doesn't last long. It doesn't have to be harmful in itself if it doesn't last long. But if during that time, those short purchases of that peace, we do something and we prepare for the right budget, then it will be designed to buy peace and devise a political move. And if it isn't then it's a huge risk to the government, then it's a huge risk to the state, and then it's actually an inability to respond to the challenges of the crisis. As party members of the ruling coalition, we'll do everything we can to make sure that this is the second, so let's get ready. Now the basic question is what should be done in order to properly prepare for it. For this budget to actually be prepared before the rebalancing itself, the budget may actually be prepared in the right sense of that word. It seems to me colleagues and colleagues, and some of my predecessors have already said what I think should be said, protection measures against the external financial crisis have been taken and should continue to strengthen them, there is no doubt about it. And, of course, it is necessary to specifically prepare measures to reach the resources that we need to refinance our debts, to pay off our debts, for that I am not sure that we are prepared, for this I do not see how we can neither in the credibility of our policy at this time nor in the measures that we would take on that side. But what in the inner sense of that word exists as a space for measures, I will say only some of them, and certainly other colleagues and colleagues I call for this kind of debate because it seems to me that it is the only thing we can do here, and that is to exchange the best arguments that we can possess to come up with some kind of rational consensus that we need right now. Savings is no doubt a measure we must take. And countries that are richer than us, and I'll only take one of Scandinavian countries like Norway, cut their civil servants' salaries by 1/3. We of course didn't find the answer to do it as Government, we're not even an employer. But we're going to have to find ways to encourage austerity measures, but we're also going to have to find savings measures in the sense that they can be provided by controlled and not wasteful consumption, a new kind of mentality that exists recently, but I think we can hear it all on the public radio, you can listen on the national radio, you can listen to the ad of one financial institution, one bank that ends with a message after you've bought everything you need, which you don't need, and then the message goes to spending and iron. It's actually an amoral message. I won't sound like, I don't want to sound like a priest, much less like a bishop, or I don't know who else because it doesn't seem like the right way, but it actually illustrates our condition. And if we don't change something about it, which I think is, I'm sorry there's no prime minister, and that's actually a matter of national pride, at this point much more. To be safe, to be firm in what we really can and not to live in irrational spheres, not to be drawn to what we can't actually accomplish. So, savings, second and possibly even more important areas where much can be achieved is the fight against corruption. The fact that most of the funds go into the area of construction, infrastructure and the like, only further strengthens what I'm about to say. Corruption in this area is greater than in these areas of another species. Somewhere, they say, in that averager, corruption of transitions and 30% of total investment and corrupt costs that cover all levels of what is necessary to cross over over 30%. Can we as a state do, can we, as a system, do something to reduce this amount of corruption and actually do it, find a reserve and find space to save ourselves on one side of the debt and unnecessary spending that is created? I believe we can, but that's why we have to focus, we have to make an example of it. The third thing I'd like to say and here it has already been mentioned several times from fellow Caine to the Prime Minister himself. The issue of a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia and of the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I would like to agree with our prime minister and say what you're saying is true, but the decision not to pass the Regional Development Act in the first quarter of next year, but to move it to the third quarter of next year does not mean that we take care of regional development. Many environments if this crisis continues, unfortunately, will suffer even greater and more severe consequences and will become more under such conditions, and therefore it is necessary to pass the law earlier. The law, like it, is the previous regional development strategy prepared, should not wait until the end of next year, but should be adopted in the first months of next year. It would have to be brought in because it is also a developmental but at the same time social measure for a number of people living in the area and in those areas and those, if it doesn't happen, will start to demographically leak towards larger centres and we will actually lose the tank demographically and humanly so that we can do what we need to do from these environments. As for what is yet to come, so we have a strategy to deal with the internal elements of the crisis and we have a strategy to deal with the external elements of the crisis. The strategy should be drawn up as soon as possible as possible as possible, and then, on the basis of this strategy, make a projection that will be realistic, a projection that will be a system of measures to ensure that the crisis is gradually prevailing, and I, as a member of the ruling coalition, call on other parties in the coalition especially their leading people to think about it because otherwise, it can indeed be the most serious threat to the government itself and the most serious threat not only to the government but to the general state of society. In this regard, colleagues and colleagues of the SDSS Club, although aware of the shortcomings, aware of the lack of capacity, are free to say the temporaryity of this agreement will give this agreement and our coalition government the opportunity to bring to the shortest possible time possible what does not exist here right now, and this is a real agreement, a real projection and real means of coping with the crisis. But unfortunately, we don't have much time. I thank my colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22570	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22571	You're wondering if we can do something to reduce corruption in the state apparatus and say we can. We can't. You're wrong. Late last night, no journalists and no public here in this House discussed the Law on Golf Courses. It's a corruption law. Under this law, state property, ownership of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities will cross... And even private property by exorcising to get into the hands of selected 60 golf courses, the owner of the golf course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you vote for the law as a coalition partner, you will participate in corruption in this country, in laws that encourage corruption. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22572	This is a little too much again. Well, that's not the correction of fellow Stazic's incorrect quote. Call for a hearing and then take part in the debate. Don't use the inaccuracy institute through the polemics. Please. Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored members of the government and colleagues and colleagues. The state budget should generally be seen in the context of its economic purpose and, above all, as a means of fiscal policy affecting key macroeconomic objectives such as maintaining a growing high... economies freed from naughty and unpleasant inflation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the proposal for a state budget and financial plans of extra-financial users for 2009 and projections for 2010 and 2011 should be observed except in the context of its purpose and in the context of the foreign, international economic environment and the domestic macroeconomic environment. And the international macroeconomic environment is characterized by the phenomenon of a financial crisis that started on the US real estate market and hit the capital market hard, which is why many world and European governments are still trying to find ways to avoid a general, economic collapse. In recent months, we have witnessed many state interventions in order to protect the financial sector by resuscitating and ruling primarily investment banks in the United States, which is why the US Congress approved the adoption of a $700 billion economics rescue plan, and shortly thereafter the need for financial assistance to the US automotive industry that requested an additional $34 billion. The estimated losses of the financial sector in the United States have already reached two thousand billion dollars. In terms of the global financial crisis, the most direct guides the report of the specialized Russian company FBK whose analysts calculated that it will save... The economy of countries around the world requires as much as $9 billion of total investment, representing almost 15% of the world's gross domestic product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] FBK analysts found that money to save national economies in countries spans over 1% of GDP as in Australia or Denmark, up to 225% as in Iceland where the International Monetary Fund has already granted a $2.1 billion loan. But extremely large funds are planned or already invested in the UK, Germany, Russia, China, Japan and other countries in the world. Fortunately, the co-ordinated fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the former process of recovery at the height of the circus 13 billion dollars and the monetary policy of the CNB financial sector in the Republic of Croatia is at a relatively high level of security and can handle moderate macroeconomic disorders. However, there has been a significant increase in interest rates in the banking system in Croatia lately despite the CNB regulatory measures that have been given to the so-called so-called business bank in Croatia over the past few months. Excess liquidity amounting to EUR 16 and a half billion. For this reason, the financial market in Croatia is characterized by the constant non-lastistic demand for money or the presence of the same level of the borrower regardless of the amount or growth of the price of money through bank interest or compensation. The financial market in Croatia also characterises a high degree of savings, while at the same time the low potential of self-financing of Croatian citizens and economic operators, as well as the regulatory limit of plasma. The savings of citizens and the economy in Croatia are on a steady rise. It currently stands at €185 billion, while at the beginning of this year it was €165 billion. It is evident from all of this, that this 2009 National Budget proposal is made in an uncertain and changing economic environment and will certainly produce conflicting and political and professional thinking. But no wonder, given the fact that as many as 5 living economists win the Nobel Prize in economics at a meeting in Italy where they discussed the causes of the financial crisis and the modes of overcoming the crisis will only agree on the causes of their own solutions. While some prefer fiscal policy to address economic problems, others think that monetary policy is more effective to mitigate economic fluctuations. Prominent economic experts warn of a hermetical rule that says that each consequence has its own cause, and that due to the future it must be taken into account that the latest economic crisis is not a structural character, but primarily caused by inefficient and irrational management, and ineffective control of the entire financial service corpus in the world. The 2009 State budget proposal envisions the total revenues of the state budget of €124.6 billion, which is more than 6.2 billion compared to 2008, and the expenditure of the state budget of €128.9 billion, i.e. nominally 7.7 billion, compared to the previous year, and is actually less for inflation by 3.5%. Based on such total planned revenue and expenditure in 2009, the state budget will record a deficit of € 4.3 billion, which is determined by the reform of the health and judicial system that introduces improvements in the quality and availability of health services to all categories of the population and the overall efficiency of the judiciary, as well as the continuation of the growth of the base for the account of employees in state and public services by 6%. The 2010 and 2011 projections suggest a reduction in the budget deficit, amounting to €3.7 billion in 2001 and 1.1 of gross domestic product, respectively, and 1.4 billion in 2011 respectively, and 0.4% of gross domestic product. In the analysis of the 2009 National Budget Proposal, three factors, i.e. the social, development and stabilisation component, should certainly be considered. Of course, this National Budget proposal is largely social because the expenditure on wages is planned by 8.2% over the previous year, i.e. at 23 and a half billion kuna, and pensions are up 4.1%) compared to $32.8 billion. At the same time, budget allocations for health care are increasing from 3.7 billion kuna in such a way that 32% of excise duties on tobacco processing are directed directly to the health system, and the allocation to help socially sensitive populations increase by 182 million kuna, i.e. from 2.7 billion in 2008 to 2.9 billion kuna in 2009. As a social component, there is also a need to highlight the increase in maternity benefits, child benefits, unemployment benefits of 251.4 million kuna. Many economic analysts resent the government of the Republic of Croatia for not insisting on the previously announced planned balanced state budget, i.e. on the planned state budget without deficits, which tried to assess the political scene as a hesitant, ease of change in attitudes and the wrong economic path. However, it must be pointed out that this proposal for a state budget is determined by certain factors and adapted to the current economic situation in Croatia, and that the macro-economic environment and the global crisis cannot be ignored. It should also be pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia could not accurately predict the outcome of the negotiations with trade unions, as it often depends on countless inexplicable and sometimes irrational facts. It is therefore logical that the proposed state budget is different from originally planned, as there has been significant changes in the environment affecting the rise in expenditure of the state budget. The comparisons for the sake of the famous economist John Maynar Keynes often had two opinions, and he could say that he changed his mind as soon as he had the information that the circumstances had changed. This need for a change of opinion Keynes has backed up with one witty record that it is not good to be stopped by a clock that is only accurate twice a day. Since Europe's countries predict stagnation or even negative growth and Croatia's forecasts of economic growth are moving at 2%, taking into account the global economic stagnation and conservative approach in drawing up the state budget proposal, it can be concluded that the 2009 State budget is realistic and that it also contains a development component. The long-term development component also includes a part of the budget relating to the separation into science and education that has doubled over the last few years, with an additional increase of 8.8% and 1.1 billion kuna respectively in 2009. The proposed State budget for 2009 also contains a stable component, because by saving at the time of growth, as well as by encouraging entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship climate, regional development, raising the level of knowledge and excellence, working efficiency, investing in infrastructure projects, returning the debt achieved from previous periods, Croatia has welcomed a period of lower growth significantly more ready than other countries, and despite the upcoming year of relatively low economic growth, it is able to retain macroeconomic stability and positive economic trends as a whole. Many economic analysts have welcomed this proposal from the state budget and are predicting an uncertain future without reasoned analysis of the causes of the current economic crisis and concrete proposed modes of desirable solutions. But you should never interfere with the idea that the future is not predicted, the future is created, and that is primarily the task of economists. Due to all this, the HDZ Club supports the Government's proposal for a state budget and financial plans and outside of the 2009 budget beneficiaries and the 2010 and 2011 projections and will vote for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22574	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It might take a little longer to correct the almost total attitude of the HDZ club, but I'll base here on just two. This is neither social, developmental, nor stabilising budget. This is a new stone around the neck of all Croatia, and the cause of the current crisis is not at all difficult to predict, analyze. That's exactly what this government is all about. Today Croatia is not in bananas, but this government has eaten both bananas and crusts. And I have one question to ask the Ministry of Finance. What? [[Not a question, not a question. No questions asked.]] Indication [[No questions asked. There's a correction to an incorrect quote.]] I'll fix it right now, and it's about filling the budget and it's about the VAT item that makes up almost 1/3. [[Intruder: Then quote.]] In fact, it is about the tax administration charging VAT in apartments, and you can check this in Djakova in private entrepreneurs who are past the voter will, past the voter's will and become designated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22576	The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative, Vice-President of the House Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22577	Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Surely the state budget, all that is being built into it, which reads from it is a document that also sets out the ways of work, action, perception, and investment of funds. The document that is brought must contain in itself everything that is expected to happen as a consequence of external factors, but with particular emphasis all that we are willing to come up with, propose and agree on one year, and given the projection, and the three-year period. Surely, as the Prime Minister has said, it is in special circumstances for Europe and the world to observe it through an emerging or emerging crisis, but the budget and atmosphere of its adoption must also offer what we know to say and light on the exits. And certainly, the last month when the debate began and talked about the parameters on which this year's budget will be based has been paralleled and what is happening around us. The financial sector, which has been extremely significantly affected in America, Europe and the world and its crisis, I can say that some people may not want to, and some of them are not aware of how little furry we are, I would say so because in Croatia we are creating an atmosphere, we need to change the government, destroy the government, the prime minister and so on, and in this House we have made a decision to guarantee our citizens 400 thousand kunas of savings, we are talking to the public about what stability is when it comes to our deposits, which is sent to us by citizens according to data from banks. Over the past month, the savings of citizens have increased by more than a billion. Many, I believe, were expecting rows in front of banks, raising savings, and then it would be the collapse of the system. The system didn't fall apart. What is planned in this budget, looking through the expected economic growth of 2%, we can certainly also observe whether it is much or little. A little bit compared to what we all projected together because regardless of the political option, we had elections a year ago, a year ago our expert teams, and many of them were together said that we needed an economic growth of about 7%, and we built it into our programmes, whether it was linearly yearly or on average for four years or as their week, but they built in such growth rates and others around us, so we were not the exception, we were not the only ones in the world, what they would say for what they would like about the electoral body and those we addressed. And this 2% will be difficult to achieve if there are no moves and measures that can be drawn and expected. It is certain that if we stop the investment cycle, if we stop creating a perspective, not only of investment, but of creating a perspective for the real sector, then it is difficult to expect the achievement of that first part of this complex document, which is the revenue budget items. But there's a possibility, I'm sure it'll come true and come true. In what ways? First of all, investment should not be interrupted. Some of them may agree and extend the dynamics of investments in them because they are not just building operations to themselves. They bind to themselves a wide range of branches of manufacturing equipment, raw materials, transport and so on and it is certain that this would have its consequences on all these branches. What is also important and important, and we can observe through several elements of observation and analysis, and in this way it will reflect, it is an investment in even development. First of all, these are investments in the area of municipal infrastructure and therefore gasification, water supply, all those investments that go through Croatian waters are linked to investments of local and regional self-government, in my opinion and the HDZ club supports and are actually envisaged as a certain continuity. It has already been said here that the European Union is working on a recovery plan, and if we follow what some countries have reacted in these days, it is certain that we are asking ourselves whether we have a chance at all? Our answer is, we have a chance. Because they said in the crisis we respond to investments in 21st century technologies. And precisely the documents that we have prepared, because we or we are very keenly considering how to address the question of, for example, the disposal of municipal waste, where 20 billion investments are needed and where the 21st century technology has provided an answer and where it has the interest to invest in Croatia, to invest foreign capital, and where the total cost for which it will not need new funds because we already allocate funds for these intentions. Secondly, for example, it is a question of investment in energy, whose strategy we expect, because in Croatian forests alone, it poisons hundreds of millions of wastes that Europe and the world, or for which it has capital, and it wants to convert and help us turn it into energy, to reduce pollution, but to open new investments. Investments are what can be started, realised already in the next year. By observing the budget through those efforts and open dialogues that were also different thinking about whether social partners' dialogue should have been established on pay, I think that it should have been created, we in the HSS think, even though we weren't there for one moment, and it was good, because there was also such thinking that the government hadn't thought and thought about such moves that what was signed, and it was a social partners' agreement, it was collective agreements, that it was giving up, to open up room for disputes, disputes trials, but simply what was agreed, agreed to be followed. This is embedded in the budget and it is certain that one of the elements of the disabling is that it is balanced or that there is no debt. But we are surprised, we have been arguing for months that we want an effective police force, we have debated and applauded the decision-making process that Croatia is becoming a candidate and that we are confident that next year we will be a NATO member. Now that these needs need to be provided in the budget, some say that we are actually strengthening repressive services in Croatia. Well, we can't expect effective police on bicycles and those dealing with satellite connections. It needs funding, it has its price and the means should be foreseen and are foreseen in this budget and we will support it. Just one more segment that I also want to touch here, a segment that has been discussed in the Parliament for years, but it's always been left, it's going to get rid of over the years, I'm reading the budgets, now for the first time I see that reality is built in here. Because the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health is a reform that remains only a story or a problem that should be discussed during the year that he has installed certain assigned percentages to individual growth ministries. Because that could have been done at 18 billion this year, add 5.6%, reach 19 billion, but there are 23 billion. This is by chance what health care of your treatment, the overall health care system costs. Now, whether it's better one or the other, I think this is right, we've shown the total cost, we've shown how much money it takes, everything that can be done, and many of the speeches can be saved and I think it can be, but let it contribute, let it be an additional quality of system efficiency. It is also certain that there are areas where, if we want certain security, priority should be provided, it should be ensured that if the funds do not grow, they do not fall. It is also certain that certain reforms are waiting for us, especially in agriculture and support and incentives systems, but the funds that are provided, and that is significant, guarantee all those payments on volumes and in amounts that we have had this year. It is certain that those to whom this applies will also be able to read and accept. And finally, as far as the Croatian Peasant Party Club is concerned. We expect that after our debates, I am glad that we are not waiting for 400, 500 amendments, and one day of debate I expect to use it usefully, to see where else we can save and to advocate if it is possible that the deficit is planned at a lower level, the budget deficit, because the less we plan here, the more the air economy we give, and certainly here we are all together complex, regardless of the political option and with such considerations, the HSS will support the adoption of the 2009 State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22578	Thank you. Two corrections. One Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22579	Thank you very much, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Fristic who said that the system is not close to decay. I think our system was falling apart, which is what I'm based on, that last week we've been having trouble paying salaries to government employees, which has been resolved, we've been getting paid, right, but now we've got a payout problem. If you don't know, Mr. Friščić's system is very close to decomposition because no funds have yet been provided for Croatian pensioners, pensions have not been paid. And because of that, I think that your responsibility, not only of HDZ, but also of HSS, has not yet been paid to Croatian pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22580	Second correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22581	I'd like to correct the representative and president of the HSS, I don't know which expert teams he was referring to on the HSS teams or government that predicted the crisis. I believe that they predicted this crisis that then the minister and prime minister would certainly not have declared that 20 days ago and they can listen to their speeches, that Croatia was not even in the crisis. We are now on the verge of a break-in on which the "Let's move on", and the only thing that HSS expert teams could bring is certainly this anti-constitutional law on agricultural land, the establishment of an agency, etc.. And on who wants to tear down the prime minister and government, I think this government, along with these coalition partners, is working solely against itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22582	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your clean reaction, forgive me, gentlemen, for the expression of the extremely irresponsible statement of Representative Maras. I don't know what right you're harassing Croatian pensioners with and what argument you have for it, Mr Maras, for cheap political points, collect them somewhere else, but for the payment of Croatian pensions to Croatian pensioners the money is provided and goes according to plan. And I ask you nicely, do not disturb Croatian pensioners because of their cheap political points. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22584	HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go. .../All speak in voice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22585	Please calm down, Mr. Minister, Agent. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government. Here let me, what to tell you actually about the budget. Like any budget, neither this result of one year's work nor this budget is the result of five years' work. This budget is among other things the result of 18 years of work. And this budget certainly reflects everything that's been going on since the '90s. I'm on it. It is certain that there are reflections on what was bad about war profit, not to mention conversion and privatisation. So let's not talk about all kinds of affairs and financial scandals. I would remind you that somewhere there in 2000, the debt of the Republic of Croatia was, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia somewhere at 9.5 billion. That 9.5 billion therefore included that debt of the former Yugoslavia, so the state when it was at war with all those until 2000 had 9.5 billion euros. Today that debt is somewhere at 36 billion euros. And now we could politicize this power or that power, and when we talk about these 18 years, but in that debt more or less participated both power, both left and right, of course successfully, more successfully or less successfully. What this government is, as I would say in my program, swears, uniform and evenly developed, forgive me, but we don't see it in Slavonia and Baranja. We do not see that in Slavonia and Baranja, not in this budget but also in the earlier budgets, more has been invested in Slavonia and Baranja in terms of its development, the economic development of developed regions in the Republic of Croatia, better said those developed regions, and this budget does not provide that. And of course Slavonia and Baranja, the Slavonian-Baranja region cannot be satisfied. It is absolutely certain that certain other parts of the Republic of Croatia are not satisfied, but when we talk about uniform and even development, I think it is not good that Slavonia and Baranja are all indicators, and these are also indicators from Brussels, the poorest of gross national income and all those other indicators in the Republic of Croatia. A number of speakers were justified for this speaker, and especially from the ruling, justification for this crisis, there was a budget in America in the crisis of financial capital and real estate, and all of us were blamed for others. It's all the fault of the Americans today what's going on in America, tomorrow it's going to be someone else, but I would say exactly and a great deal of the consequences of this American crisis, of course, that it's affecting Croatia as well. But let me say, what bothers me is that I think that this could have been predicted, at the moment when the American market disturbances occurred, at the very least, it could have certainly been predicted. Until recently, I will remind you so some parts and quote what happened here in Croatia from the ruling and what messages we received from the current government. A few months ago, here's a senior official saying: "All those who talk about crisis and inflation, deficit and decline in production in the economy are evil prophets, enemies and politicians." Well, then government announcements only a few months ago say that the global crisis is bypassing Croatia, and then it was actually amazing. It is either a global economic and financial crisis that Croatia certainly cannot, not Croatia, but anyone else, or it is not about the global financial crisis. But that the global financial crisis would bypass, it was completely unrealistic, and certainly the one who said it could have said it for political purposes, and assumes that it certainly had enough knowledge and that such announcements, such as these, could have served only for political purposes. Or, the most responsible for the Ministry of Economy only a few months ago, knowing all the circumstances from the global economic and financial crisis, talks about growth, economic growth from 3.5% to 4%. Well, then there's a promise of free textbooks in a crisis that's already been recorded. She claims, she'll still go to free textbooks. One little detail. But investments were announced a month and a half ago. And the Peljeski bridge and ours here at Zagreb's port of Dance. There was a "new deal" and it was yesterday, if we're talking about a month, a month, a half, two, that's what we were talking about. However, what is being said today? Today Rohatinski no longer harassed the public. There was talk of general freezing of wages and belt tightening, individuals were announcing by employers of mass layoffs, let's save jobs. Of course you're announcing a censorship for free textbooks. We're talking about returning participation to health care, we're talking about saving up schools and health institutions. Two or three weeks ago, we were prepared to postpone the state budget for the reason that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we would be smarter or more experienced. So I'm saying this to me, but all of this applies to the current government, to the responsible people in the ministries and to all those who have participated in the adoption of this draft budget. What happened last night got me a little confused again. The Economic Council is meeting and I don't know if it's going to happen, I don't want to prejudge, but the changes are still being announced through the media. In the budget that we have on the bench today. So I can only say what I got as a representative, and I got that deficit to be 1.6%. Is there going to be some kind of change in the state budget in these three days, or until Monday when it's likely to vote the state budget, I don't know. However, according to those indicators of GDP growth of 2% seems to me, and I wish I were wrong that it was a little unrealistically high in such conditions, but I would be very happy if this rate is achieved even if it is higher at the end of 2009. It is said that and explained in one part of the budget, of course it can be concluded that such a deficit is among other reasons there are in pretty high guarantees in shipbuilding, but also because of the costs of the health system. Due to the costs of the health system, however, with such a deficit that I don't know what the position is now except for again of course from the media, people who worked in the Economic Council, but certainly according to what to read, this level of deficit has opened the front to the Croatian People's Bank whose prognosis is quite pessimistic, as well as quite certain towards employers because of the growth of wages I think that one failed to agree with the trade unions, actually a good result, because tightening the belt in a social situation I think it's too much to ask from employees, from employees, from workers, from workers. I think the items of the state budget can find resources elsewhere, and this savings can be achieved in other positions. But I want to believe when I talk about the structure of the state budget, that in the coming days, however, it will change in relation to how it is proposed here, that more funds will be provided to small and medium-sized enterprises, the economy, exporters, and that these ratios in the structure of the state budget, for example, that these incentives will not remain reduced compared to the last year by more than 20% or support in agriculture and fisheries that are reduced by 11% or the Fund for Development and Employment where 20% of the funds is less or less in the rate of increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian industry by 28% than in 2008. Someone said they were reduced and funds in the wood industry, so I expect that, with the suggestions of the Economic Council, and also the most responsible in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because as a real and objective man, I can understand that this is not a wish nor a minister of finance, but that people are simply managed by some objective circumstances that exist in the world, but also in the Republic of Croatia, but I appeal to those who have a decisive word in the executive government in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to listen to the profession, to listen to what they are told and suggested by the economic council, and it is suggested that as much as possible, this time, the amendments that come from the coalition, perhaps for the first time, in a small and medium entrepreneurship, in exporters, that the austerity measures are achieved on some other points of the budget that are being spent and, and, of course, are expected that the amendments coming from the coalition, perhaps from a small and medium-sized from this way, that I can go from this way, in terms of the economy, that I am going to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to take from the money from the money to make from the economy, and the money of the economy, which I, and to be able to pay, and the money to be able to go from the money to pay. If it remains this way, the HDSSB will be against it, as it indicates that there is no such one budget does not bring about a solution that will preserve jobs in 2009, but also this budget does not open a longer-term perspective in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22586	A few corrections, Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22587	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I will correct my colleague Šišljagić who said that Slavonia and Baranja did not invest more than in earlier periods, and that this budget that is provided before us. That's not true. In Slavonia and Baranja, it has never been invested as in the past five years, and it is made clear financially. There have never been large capital investments like in the last five years. And today we've heard from the prime minister that the investments you've started especially here I mean corridor 5C continue. There is no question of the southern bypass of Osijek, nor is further investment in the water supply and disposal system, so all those projects that are of capital importance for Slavonia and Baranja and Osijek-Baranja County. Of course, support for economic development, agriculture, regional development remains practically at the same level. Therefore, the investment intensity in Slavonia and Baranja will at least remain as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22588	Second correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22589	Dear Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct my colleague Sišljagic if almost all the regions are not present in this budget. The most neglected is Slavonia and Baranja, except for these promises by Mr. Ivic when he buys power and certain units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22590	Please, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22591	I'd like you to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22592	Peace. But I'm telling you, you're talking about correcting an incorrect quote. Do not comment on any other events or events.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22593	That's where Mr. Ivić interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22594	Nothing interrupted you, Mr. Ivić. Correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22595	I hope that this budget will now and finally provide funds for students.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22596	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22597	I'm talking about investing in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22598	Which one do you have the correction of an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22599	I'm talking about investing in Slavonia, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22600	Nothing, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22601	I thank you, too, for your strong will for democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22602	Thank you very much. Third Amendment Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22603	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I'd like to fix a few.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22604	No comment, no throw.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22605	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct a few incorrect allegations. Namely, the assumption that the least investment was made in Slavonia and that Slavonia did not find its way to uniform regional development in this budget. If we look at certain items and the budget should be analysed according to paragraphs, we will see that exactly the largest number of investment large projects in Slavonia, that all the major infrastructure procedures we started there continue, that the increase for agriculture is 4.7% this year, 20% in the last two years, that agriculture in the external trade balance from five years ago reached 8% in this development and most of the waste in Slavonia. And not only to remind myself of the restoration of the infrastructure after the end of the war when Slavonia was destroyed, there is no sign of hospitals, roads and other objects anymore. Therefore, it is not with the budget that we should politicise but rather tell the truth. And the second amendment, the Economic Council yesterday discussed the budget deficit. The Economic Council did not discuss it, nor did it make decisions. Decisions are made by the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22606	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić is the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22607	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, I also have to correct a few allegations from my colleague Šišljagic. And colleagues have corrected your claim that Slavonia and Baranja are not being invested enough and that it is not even enough, that what we say all the time about even investment that it is not true. The truth is a colleague of Shisljagic's. And my colleagues have corrected this allegation before. And open the program section of this budget on any page of any ministry, I accidentally opened here, so I saw that the water supply next year will be invested in the disposal and water supply of 38 million kuna in Slavonia. A second correction to an incorrect quote. You said you promised, you promise free textbooks. That's not true. Free textbooks have been there for the second year of school. You must know that students get free textbooks both in your county and in my county and in your county unfortunately because they were hit by war as well as in my county get on a second basis. So all students get free transportation and free textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22608	Next correction, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22609	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, it would take a lot more than a business time to correct this contradictory performance by Mr. Šišljagic, but I will try to get into some kind of framework. An absolutely incorrect allegation that it did not invest in Slavonia and Baranja during the previous period. I'm just going to mention significant increases in incentives in economic and agriculture, significant detachments for the communal... Perhaps Mr. Šišljagic forgot about the gasification of Baranja which before this government had no one meter of gas network. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Many companies, especially those in the agro-processing complex, have been renovated. And probably, in the end, I might say, Mr. Šišljagic is the only driver to drive along the currently completed 5C corridor route without seeing that he is built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22610	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22611	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I would also correct Mr. Šišljagic's incorrect allegations that neither former nor current budgets bring anything to Slavonia. That's absolutely not true. During this past period and the past term and this current current Croatian government has also allocated large funds to the municipal infrastructure, to the road, to the gasification of Baranja, to the system of draining, water supply, etc., large incentives for agriculture, to the University of Osijek over 600 million kuna, etc. So, in Slavonia, it is very much invested, and in the previous elections, the Slavonian voters gave 50% of their mandates to the Croatian Democratic Community, and not to the beautiful eyes, but precisely because of these programmes that applied to Slavonia. And what I absolutely disagree with, Slavonia does not need a uniform and even development because we have suffered a lot of war damage from economic and other workers. We need speedy development. And I ask you a question about how this policy of yours is isolation and politics... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22612	Without it, it's still too high. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22613	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, I also have to correct Mr. Šišljagić's incorrect claim not to invest in Slavonia and Baranja. That's actually not true. In Slavonia, it really invests in investments, capital projects, entrepreneurship, infrastructure and the result is the results that have been presented in the County Chamber of Economics in Osijek which are truly excellent. And really, if we want to talk about the economy, then we need to give priority to the profession, not politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22614	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's not to pick up every time, thanks for giving me a 209 chance, 210th, so, here, colleague Majdenic, I didn't go in first of all to correct something that I didn't say at all and many others. So that nothing is being invested, it's being invested, but what's being invested is the minimum, the minimum, and you can't claim what you're just saying, not just you, but the rest of them. Slavonia and Baranja, according to statistical indicators, is the most lagging region in the Republic of Croatia and in Brussels, and if this is evenly and evenly investing for 18 years, then I give recognition. [[Agreement: It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a correction!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22616	Club representatives of HSLS and HSU, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22617	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. They say that in all the dramatic social events today, we have heard the word pragmatically in the prime minister's address of socio-ingvists usually take the metaphors that make the most of language or public space, then look at or explore what is actually happening, what are the social events that are dramatic. We are faced with the coming crisis these three months, and then today, or right now, what we started to discuss about the budget most actually heard that the use of metaphors is tightening and cutting, tightening belts, cutting costs. So if I were to use those metaphors, it seems to me that in the end it might be about this way, when it can no longer be tightened, it'll have to be cut. Because tightening is one metaphor or one term or so we can say one act that is purely mechanical, so you can tighten or stretch, tighten as much as it allows you that matter that you tighten, however, I'm afraid that with a purely mechanical act, or with purely mechanical measures we won't achieve much. We can tighten in such a way that in certain resolutions, in certain items we reduce something, either the income side, or the expenditure side, most often the expenditure side. But I'm afraid this is really an opportunity that I'm also afraid we're going to miss for nothing that's really a real cut in front of us. But cutting, as you know, at least all of you who are involved in viticulture and fruit production is not at all a mechanical act, it is simply one act in which you have to calculate in which or before you have to look out for certain biological, organic or organic phenomena, therefore, one act that is really connected to and by biological facts and as any good winemaker or fruit maker knows that I now get away from this area of metaphor, any residence is actually successful if you know how to remove what will needlessly burden the tree or plant or what might burden the fruit, or if you know how to get well-circuited, connect, then take care of that part of the tree, branch or something else that will bring fruit or which will make the fruit grow faster. However, I'm afraid that we haven't used this crisis or that we won't use this crisis to cut those costs that have so far been unnecessary, or the costs that we may have... Other circumstances above all, changes in the legal and economic framework, by entering the European Union simply have to be cut or we will simply have to reduce them, or because of a major change in the legal regime, we will simply have to give up on them, such as shipyards, shipbuilding, or some economic branches, etc. vertical support and a whole series of other costs that we have accumulated all these years, which have been perpetuated for which, of course, neither the minister nor this government, nor even the former one, but just like that are part of Croatian economic history, we inherited them, we dragged them, but on the other hand, we are only now aware that they have equally dragged us and that they have actually impaled us, in some way impaled our feet because we haven't had enough air, we weren't fit enough that we may be able to develop some other economic branches more strongly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it seems to me as much as the government has managed to save in many areas and cut costs and even more realistically plan for next year, but there have been no painful cuts or fewer painful cuts that we could have made now, which could have happened, precisely because we have to do what is sick so that we can give what is healthy space and give opportunities to grow. Unfortunately, for the next year, we have predicted slightly lower subsidies and slightly lower subsidies in the economy, although it is clear to all of us that in these circumstances the only thing that can generate growth is the export economy, if we strengthen it, is production if we strengthen it to rely on our mainly import economy, so about three quarters of our GDP is imports, or what is spent on the import economy, so that we simply have to raise one quarter of it, strengthen it, train it, that it can grow further, that it can develop our society. I would therefore advocate Mr. Minister, indeed on behalf of the club that as much as possible for the next year we do not reduce and cut subsidies and support to the economy because once again I repeat not only that we will not achieve the desired or projected economic growth of 2% but we will question the liquidity of the state, we will question if there is no export, the way we will or the channels that will bring foreign exchanges and I am afraid that we will also endanger this little healthy export economy that we have today. I welcome the fact that at the position of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development I see that the Government shows concern and responsibility for preparing exports, shows concern and responsibility for loans that have been placed to exporters so far, but I am afraid that without the subsidy and support systems as they have now gone, so that the horizontal ones will not be able to maintain an existing rate of industrial growth, export growth and then, of course, general economic growth. For example, let me mention that without certain subsidies that we introduced for the first time this year to something more generous, without subsidies and support for the textile, leather and wood industry this year are somewhere at 130 million. Next year, under our agreement, Mr. Ministers were supposed to be 300 million kunas. If we're going to fall under these 120 we're giving this year I assure you I don't want to, I don't want to warn without cover and for no reason but I assure you that we will question that part of our industry. It's similar with the wood industry. Of these 100 million be assured Vartex or some other company or some leather or some wood industry with 10 or 15 million kuna important, significantly repair their bloodstream. It is simply a monetary financial infusion that allows them to prepare exports, to go from business to their own brand brand, so that they can break through foreign markets where other competitors are because the state is following them. If the Spanish state is following Zara, which became a brand in the meantime, then I think we too must follow the textile industry. I'm not saying that because everyone knows that the headquarters of the industry in Varazdin is somewhere else, but I'm saying that without the export industry, it was the car, I don't know, in Solin or elsewhere, the food plant somewhere else, in Koprivnica we simply won't be able to keep the existing level of growth and I'm afraid that we'll cut but in the wrong places. That we'd cut healthy instead of trying to remove what's sick. We are aware of, of course, the fact that we are being threatened or doubted the possibility of reprogramming or re-financing debts which, of course, if we do not have revenues from export markets, will also be questioned, so I ask you to consider it. This is not about high funds from the total budget. Perhaps we should leave a level of support to the economy on what was last year or something to rise. I think we can find funds for this in a budget like this, so if you need to, maybe, at the cost of the administration, which indeed went too much and completely unnecessary in some budget users. We welcome, of course, the fact as a socio-liberal party that we were still planning an increase for the socio-negotiated groups of citizens, for fees and compensation. I think it's good to plan under these circumstances. Of course that won't be enough, but we still managed to show good faith and plan to increase income as I say that given the threatening crisis, but every crisis is like any threat is actually spreading in circles. It spreads like fear. It is therefore, if possible, to be reduced. I'm the first against inflating the crisis, some kind of collective hysteria about it. However, we need to know exactly what areas we will recover, where we will find the strength to overcome this crisis, or what it will be like in a crisis. Furthermore, I think it is good that we have maintained some kind of growth in the field of education. I'd like to go faster, though. I think that's the part, that developmental substance that we should have done this year despite the crisis, despite the reduction in other items, that would just be symbolic, but also the act of showing that we're finally raising the value of education because I'm afraid that with these separations Mr. Minister is the same, and the message of the Minister of Education we're simply not going to be able to implement all of those projects that we're talking about, for example, from the pedagogical standards that we've imposed on ourselves. I'm afraid we're not going to do this with these separations and not to, there's no pedagogical standardisation ahead of us, but we're just waiting to postpone this job that's important and that we've imposed ourselves on making a decision on the pedagogical stand. I would also like to see, of course, in the area of infrastructure, that there is a drop in investment, however, I would really like to do so in the area of infrastructure, even if it is possible not to save. Then it is better to save on other items simply because without a branch and without built infrastructure Croatia has no chance of creating stronger economic infrastructure. Croatia today has about 45% coverage of the sewer and collector network. It is for a serious industrial country or a country that wants to attract investment too little, and I fear that with such infrastructure, of course, there are other participating counties that finance before anything else than infrastructure, I fear that with such infrastructure, we simply will not be able to attract investments without, of course, saying new investments again, yet we do not have or will reduce the economic growth that is otherwise modestly planned. All in all, we believe that the budget at this point balances what the appetites and users and the whole society are with what the possibilities of the state are, but I say once again, I think we should have decided to cut instead of tightening because that way we'd better distinguish and separate what's sick from what's healthy and I'm afraid you know if there's this kind of filling that's already going to be in some local environments that this isn't going to be a budget but this is going to be a calculation and that we're going to have to go already, I don't want to be a mean prophet, it's not going to go to the soul of the minister. It could not have been planned differently or very differently, however, I am afraid that with such a charge or inflow of income as already seen in some units of local self-government, and you know that those first feel for fiscal incomes from income tax, I am afraid that this will indeed be not a budget but a calculation and that we will benefit much less than we think today. I don't want to scare you, be a bad prophet, but I can especially say that if we don't succeed in creating that infrastructure and creating certain economic growth generators, so I ask you once again at the end of Mr. Minister to consider the subsidies of the economy. I think we should stay or that something should increase slightly compared to this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22618	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mr. Chehok's incorrect claim that in this case, if I properly interpret him in this budget, there are no painful cuts. I don't know what items he meant, but looking at the items concerning investment in Croatian islands, these cuts are very painful, so painful that they will have consequences and soon there won't be anyone on the islands to shout out of this pain as much as these cuts are painful, from ports, from capital facilities, from water supply and everything else that life on the islands does. So, as far as I'm concerned, I don't know what items you've been looking at, but as far as the ones I've been looking at are very painful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22620	Thank you. And a second correction to an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22621	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that the budget could not have been planned differently under these circumstances. I think he could and had to plan differently. It's not real, it's not adjusted, and you've seen it from your own discussion. I haven't seen a single club yet, not a single representative who's been so sorry about a budget like this, and in the end, he'll raise his hand to him. So I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chehok, if you're just coming along and you've come to understand the coalition agreement just to come here and raise your hand for HDZ. Please think about it and vote only in what you believe [[/Intruder: This is no longer a correction. Thank you.]] You obviously don't believe in this budget based on your discussion. [[Thank you. Your Honor!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22622	This isn't a correction. Please stick to the order we brought ourselves and stick to this Rules of Procedure. Here, in answer to that, is now a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's hear it. The Honorable Representative of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22623	Mr. Chairman, a colleague of course hurt Article 409. He was correcting something I didn't say. I haven't made any criticism at all, I just asked that we all think about some items together, but I said that in these circumstances I think it was only realisticly possible to plan this way and I'm going to raise my hand to my conviction. I'm not dictated by other people like you, but I have my own beliefs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22624	Thank you. And let me just say it. There is no such thing as Article 409 of the Council of Representatives. So you called the wrong article, and you misread what you said that was more important. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, we have a lot of people who have applied. The Rules of Procedure have brought what I can say. Let's not work on the Rules of Procedure. We brought it and now let's stick to it. Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I only owe you one piece of information about retirement. I repeat again, it is not convenient to panic on such topics especially if it is unfounded because of the Croatian public, and above all because of Croatian pensioners. Today, up to nine o'clock, 2 billion and 54 million kuna are paid into the accounts of business banks. Therefore, according to the business policy of banks and how already retired will be able to rise. As far as Croatian Post Office 5.12 is concerned, 75 million were paid, 8.12. 88, 9.12. 68 and 10.12. 191 million and exactly pensioners know which pension goes through the mail so that they can use that pension two or three days later. So, by Friday, they'll be able to have it in total if you add it all together means over the mail of 422 million, and over current accounts that are in the business banks if you want and at which business banks I can give it to you. But I think it's the freedom of every citizen to receive his income through the business bank he decides to take. So, a total of nearly 2 and a half billion kuna and in such difficult conditions, it has been ensured that Croatian pensioners receive their pension exactly as they receive it every month and that a young colleague is not convenient to play with such topics, no matter how much we have fought politically. Because, unfortunately, everyone can't wait for that kuna and it's not convenient to say they'll be late especially at the 12th month.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22626	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22627	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, I am asking you and the other fellow vice presidents when they are chairing the link article 214 if it is a gentleman, I don't know what Mr. Shucker meant when he said a young colleague. Here we are all MPs elected by citizens and I ask you to interrupt any speaker in the future when he tries to discredit any representative in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22628	Please don't throw it away. I'd like to, please, Your Honor, please, Your Honor. I'm begging you don't throw it away and stop throwing it away. Let's stick to the line. You have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22629	Article 214 again, if I've heard Mr. Shucker correctly. He mentioned something that had something to do with the communists. I don't know who he wanted to insult, disrespect. I wasn't in the Party, and the others who recognize me, I don't know who that was. But since I was saying I believe you tried to tell me. Don't tell me that. You don't have to lecture me on democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22630	Honorable representative, neither. There was no demeaning here, nor was there a deviation from the rules of conduct, nor was there any other way of disrupting order and peace here at this session. So you shouldn't have raised that tile. And now the correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22631	I want to correct the incorrect assumption that I deliberately panicked. I'm just saying the facts, Mr. Minister, today. You've confirmed it yourself. Most Croatian pensioners did not receive a pension. That's a fact and I'll give you one proposal, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22632	Please correct the quote, not the suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22633	Well, I fixed it. The suggestion is next time you pay the pensioners first, and then you go with the rest of the donations to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22634	Your Honor, you cannot make suggestions through the Institute to correct an incorrect quote. Let's hang in there. We said we didn't make fools of our Rules of Procedure. Let's stick with him. And the last club, Honorary Representative Furio Radin, on behalf of the National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, thank you for staying with us for so long, even though you've been upset after all, it's nice that at least one part of the government, a small part of the government here listens to MPs, clubs, and even representatives should listen to it all the way. And Chehok should leave, though, we know he has to go to Varazdin. If the pessimism of national minorities in the world were measured, it would undoubtedly be found that they are statistically significantly more prone to black thoughts and pessimism than the majority people. Since Croatians are very concerned about the economic situation in Croatia at the moment, someone says the crisis, and those like Mr. Antun Vujic who deals with philosophy will know there is no talk about the crisis here. Because there are only words in the crisis when the end of the tunnel is established and the worst situation is. Because after the crisis, I guess there's a rise. But we don't see the crisis, we see one state, more than the crisis, and we hope that this situation will last for a while, but since the situation of the Croats is very concerned about the future, then you can imagine how concerned the members of the national minorities, Serbs, Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Roma, and all the way to the Italians who have been thinking that little is going on in Croatia. Prime Minister Sanader's speech and Minister Schucker's speech, if at all necessary, has been further buried in the belief that the future is uncertain. We owe as much as, almost as much as our gross product, most of the debt is due this very next year, many are on the verge of existence, and that edge of existence, of course, threatens to be crossed. We are told that we are being threatened, Mr. Minister, by the fate of Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, that is to threaten us with the discipline of the IMF. I argue that it doesn't matter whether we have or won't have an IMF behind us in the next area because if we want to, I'm not saying solve, but simply mitigate the consequences of the crisis, or the situation, then we're going to have to apply exactly those antipathic measures that the IMF has recommended and we're going to have to apply them on our own. Otherwise, we're not getting out of that state. Gentlemen of the government, I think even a waste of time is now a sterile and speculative debate about whether we ourselves are to blame for what is happening to us or is part of the global economic crisis. I recommend that we take it as a fact and take it as a definition that it's our fault because at least first we'll be, we'll be right and we'll be closer to the truth, and secondly, we'll at least be able to do something about it because if we continue to be part of the economic global crisis, I don't know what we'll be able to do. My pessimism comes from us constantly saying that we are part of an overall economic crisis that we absolutely cannot influence because we are too small for it. Minorities are aware that they will suffer the consequences of the crisis as much as others, but probably more than others. Of course we're afraid of such a situation, but we've been witnesses and objects and a lot of difficult situations in our minority and non-minor history. We were often discriminated against, I'm talking about the past, I'm not talking about the present. Don't be as confused as it used to be when I spoke discriminated, persecuted, banished. Even today, some are still wondering, and I wonder, for some time, why in 2003, I was discussing the budget of the persecution of minorities in the history of this country. But the reason was certainly in my consciousness, not in my subconscious, in my mind, because, as I would, I'll use more, I'll quote another person who is rarely quoted in this House, as Marx would say, "Better than a proleter is only a woman than a proleter." And as I would say, in a more difficult situation than most, there could possibly be only a minority. In the minority shortages are in a more difficult position than most when the cake is reduced, I am convinced that sooner or later a small part of the cake has just long-term looking at minorities. Therefore, the National Minority Club believes that it is necessary to continue the process of positive discrimination, Mr Minister and in the budget towards them and that their institutions and their associations must finance more than the average of the budget precisely because of this positive discrimination, because these are vulnerable groups, vulnerabilities, certainly more vulnerable than the rest of the population. This may sound antipathic to some, but believe that what I'm saying is based on the facts of our history and that, although financial discrimination has eased from the past in recent years and therefore we are grateful to this government that we support, for its sensitivity about it, but we argue that shell and minority rights do not have alternatives in modern European society, and that we should put more effort and not a little bit, because in fact 7 million euros is given to the institutions and associations of national minorities representing 7.5% of the population. Count it that way and you'll see it's small money. Any comparison with any other segment of the population would be devastating, so I won't mention it. And finally, the National Minority Club will support this budget, the decimal point, the heavy heart. Because we understand what this budget is, because we're solid with both the majority people and the coalition partners. And in the end, two questions only, after we said that we would support that severe heart budget. The first question was this, in Italy, that the mafia performs three main mafias each year: the Sicilian Mafia, Mr. Minister, the Calabrez Mafia and the Naples mafia, or the Kamara, to commit 100 billion euros. My question is, how much does crime and corruption affect at this time in Croatia? So it might be that we might find some money for this budget if we start counting like that? And the second question that is even more fundamental and I point it out to all of us here is this, and that's when I really end up. Why does every small municipality in Croatia bring a budget with most councilors, and why did the past HDZ government and the last SDP government always agree to bring the budget here with most of the present? So potentially 34% of the vote? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22636	We'll answer this last time we change the Constitution. So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate, which is, by the way, just to say 66 respected MPs and MPs. You figure out what time it is, how long it's gonna take, so God help us out, let's go. The first is the distinguished Željka, a respected representative, Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22637	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Before this debate began today, I thought that the debate would be held over the final draft budget that the government is referring to the Parliament for discussion. But at the very beginning, in the opening words of the Prime Minister, we have been informed that we can expect to amend this proposal through the government's amendments. It is common and acceptable for the Government to accept some things after the amendments have been held, and to implement them through its amendments, it is understandable to me, but I do not understand that after we have been waiting for this final proposal for quite some time because of the specific conditions in which the draft budget is being adopted, that we are being announced before the debate that this is not yet a final proposal and that the Government is likely to intervene with its amendments. I think it's a little bit of playing with the law to be nice and decent, bypassing some legal provisions, and I think it's kind of like putting MPs where they don't belong. But I don't think that's relevant to this debate. We've heard that this is actually a budget of continuity that's being passed under specific conditions. We also heard that through this budget there is a different attitude of the government towards expenditure, that it is about savings. Unfortunately, I have to admit, I don't recognize that savings, even though I advocate savings. Saving is not just more or less a linear cutting of certain items in the budget but a setting of new rules of play, new criteria. The restructuring of the budget is not only the budget but the entire state spending. Restructure priorities that are indeed not available in this budget and are not recognizable. I don't understand the reasons, whether there's not enough courage or determination or simply not enough knowledge. In order for this budget to be restructured, it is true that it is necessary to change the way we behave in a timely manner, to change some policies and to change the rules that are unacceptable in our opinion, in our opinion it is unacceptable to accept them, but by ruling them in a very persistent manner. It is true that what has been missed or wrongly done cannot be corrected by one budget, but we could recognize from this budget at least the intentions or intentions that we will change our behavior when we talk about state spending. It's been a year since we heard a message from the government that he'd be driving at speed five. This was about a whole series of reforms that there is a consensus that must be implemented. But to this day, given the final results of these reforms, it seems to me that the government is still seeking a shapeshifter and that we cannot recognise savings in this budget from the results of these reforms or the reforms achieved. The past year, in fact, there's a car in the lere, and it seems to me that the only thing that's happened in that ride is the global financial crisis. In the light of this budget, it says ready, but to me it seems completely unprepared. Since we're expected to talk with arguments, I'm going to try to explain this my thesis of the awkwardness that has hit us. In the past year, according to the August indicators, the average salary actually fell by 1%. The price of goods and services or inflation has increased by 6.5%. Half of the total number of pensioners receive a pension of less than 22.00 kuna, although the number is recognizable, i.e. the drop in unemployment is still 222,000 people in Croatia, which is hardly sustainable. Unfortunately, the number of employees has not increased. Economic growth is halved and foreign debt is over 35 billion euros. Only for comparisons, at the end of 2003 it was 19.88 billion. The foreign trade deficit has increased 20% and the export coverage is only 45%. Insolvency increased by 21.5% last year, and about 30,000 employees work in insolvency companies. 30,000 of those who are potential people who will lose their jobs. It is therefore not difficult to conclude that the global financial crisis is not the main reason for the crisis conditions for this budget. It was bad in Croatia before the global crisis broke out, although today the government is trying to use this crisis as an alibi for its own ineffectiveness. From Mark's square and through this budget, I must admit I was expecting a solution. What we were offered in the process of preparing this was savings, a call for savings sent to citizens, and a request was made to trade unions to give up previously agreed salary increases. So the belt should be tightened by that broadest circle of citizens who actually fill that budget and it seems to me that our government is acting like Robin Hood but completely misunderstood. Robin Hood took the rich and shared the poor, and here the government acts like Super Hick. Savings are really necessary. That's where I agree with the government's messages. But not saving citizens, because they no longer have anything to spare. It takes saving at country level. I'll try to set a few examples where it's really possible to save. I'm going to mention public procurement and a whole series of examples that we talked about earlier all these years because of non-transparentity, because of the intransparency of corruption. There is too much going on just like this, and it could provide significant amounts that could then be used to encourage the economy and achieve social balance. It must finally be in the government to identify what the priorities are. In this regard, I do not think that anything is done in Croatia is excessive, but under the conditions of the crisis it must be determined without which it is not possible, and in this budget it is also not recognizable. It seems that everything is necessary and that all of this must be done, but then only linearly reduced amounts. It's very important to reform the state administration. What's definitely too expensive and what needs to be cut drastically and urgently, it's just too much and yet inefficient government. I know the government knows that, but there's obviously no will or courage to deal with it. And I finally suggest that what is said a lot is finally realized, which is that part of the imports that burden both this budget and the development of the economy are replaced by domestic production. I'm going to give you just one example of a capable competitive IT industry. If only the state accepted equal game rules and gave the opportunity to the domestic IT industry, significant relations leaving Croatia, which are sold for expensive licences and expensive maintenance would remain at the disposal of the domestic economy in the Croatian budget. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you have begun the announcement of savings and restrictions in this budget. It seemed good to me, but I recognized from the beginning that you had one completely wrong approach. It's like when a plane is overcrowded so it can't reach its required height, then something must be thrown out of it. You were the one who planned to throw the passengers out first, completely wrong. And then when you realized that because of the threatening riots in Croatia you couldn't just throw out passengers, then you decided not to throw anything out. So today we have this budget as a crowded plane from which we have not tried to oust excess fuel to stay at the necessary height and to ensure what is most important to Croatia, which is the sustainability of the existing economy, jobs and future development. All those rules that have been suggested to you for years by economic experts and well-intentioned rules, economic rules at the level of public administration, public finances and public authorities. Discard at least that fuel, be at least that kind of overfuel, because otherwise it will obviously be the only solution to the pilot's disposal, and I don't think that would be best for Croatia either.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22638	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Radin, without being thrown out of the bench. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative of Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague right now for quoting me, but the quote is incorrect because I applied Robin Hood's story to the government, to her government, that's each other. It's incorrect to be able to drive in a lerra. I'm surprised, colleague, I suppose she's driving, but since she was in the government that was driving in reverse, I'm not surprised she was changing her mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22640	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22641	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague stated that the economic crisis encountered or caught up with us and found us unprepared. Dear colleagues, I disagree, your claim is incorrect because if we were not unprepared even when your government left us a deficit of the state budget of 6.3% and let alone that everything that the Croatian state has done in the past year, not only the past, but the past term, and especially in the last year, it is not true that the Croatian economic crisis has caught up with unpreparedness. If it was you, we'd be unprepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22642	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22643	Mr. Vice President, then one blames counterpart Antunovic where she led the government to act like a superhero. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not read children's novels as a first, but is conflicting with real problems, does not behave in the spirit of superhics from children's novels, and certainly conflicts with all the problems she described in today's statement of this budget seriously, consistently and it is said that the dynamics of the realization of certain projects will only be slowed down a little. It's that seriousness that tells us how to overcome this crisis that's ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22644	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal, let me start with the thesis first, this draft budget is not good and shows all the disorientation of the Croatian government to respond to the situation in which Croatia is located. Croatia is in crisis. We went into recession, economic growth in the last quarter of this year is close to zero. Is this crisis imported? My opinion is that it isn't. I don't think this crisis is the result of the global crisis. This crisis is due to the problem created in Croatia for years, lack of structural reforms, inaction of nothing and no more serious shifts in having a more efficient administration. This crisis has been a consequence of the government's expensive past five years, and therefore we do not have the resources to deal more seriously with the potential problems that will arise next year. The real crisis is just ahead of us, and Croatia is not ready for this crisis because this government has not prepared it for the crisis. And how do Croatian citizens feel about this crisis? They feel it in a way that the real value of their salaries this year is less than 1% than it's worth in recent years. Croatian citizens can buy less goods and services than last year. The trend will likely continue in the following year. We're feeling a crisis by slowing down economic growth. What am I saying that for? Because the state has been having problems paying its most basic costs due to slow economic growth. The state is in trouble. Costs such as salaries for civil servants yesterday, as we heard today, pensions for Croatian pensioners today. Croatian pensioners today have not all been retired. The peace is late. You rude fellow Shuker, please don't throw it at me. Peacehouses are running late, and the Croatian government is struggling to find funds for them. One proposal I can make right now. Next month, Mr. Minister, pay first to Croatian pensioners. Croatian pensioners live since 2000 kuna per month. It's 70 kunas every day. Every day means literally life to them, whether they can buy the most basic means. And what do we need the terms of this economic crisis? What kind of leadership does Croatia need under these conditions? We need a leadership that knows what's ahead of us. And who knows how to deal with these problems. To our damage to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to say the rope of people who decide within the Government of the Republic of Croatia or more rope, a man who only thinks he should decide on behalf of all of us, knows neither of us nor of the other. Why do I think there? Why do I think you gentlemen don't know what's ahead of us? Until just a few months ago, you told us we'd avoid the global crisis. That's why I think, because until just a month ago, you had a budget that was higher than 10 billion kunas. Because you planned a budget based on economic growth twice as big as it would be. And she's suddenly, the prime minister is looking for a car. He says there are new circumstances, we're hanging on the thread. He was surprised by all that. I'm sorry the Prime Minister didn't watch us, CNN or BBC, because on the news, he'd see all the responsible governments preparing for this crisis all year, not just the last month. For the first time, the budget is given in a procedure beyond the legal deadline that defined it to be 15. No country in the European Union but those who had elections was surprised by the situation as our government. Gentlemen, you're in a crisis with your eyes tied. Totally disoriented and you don't know where you're going. Why do I still think you don't know how to deal with this problem? We saw that from two things. First on the draft budget this government adopted at its session last Friday. The government passed the budget just 5 days ago, and yesterday all the boards in the Croatian Parliament voted with the support of the ruling coalition's representatives. All committees. It's something else again today. The deficit from five days ago, today is no longer good, it needs to be reduced, we'll have heard health care. Unserious, unprofessional and terrifying. And we're not just saying that in the SDP. This is what Croatian economists say, the European Commission says. We don't have economic policy. It says in the latest Progress Report. You gentlemen play with numbers, and you don't know what it means, nor what the consequences will be for all of us. And it wouldn't be so terrible, Mr. Shucker, that you decide how it's going to be for you, but you gentlemen decide how all Croatian citizens will live next year. And what kind of budget did we get? Crisis? Is this even a crisis budget? Is this budget any different than last year? This budget is slightly redesigned, last year's budget with smaller issues for the economy and with significantly slower income growth compared to expenditure. A lot of stories about the deficits of the last few days, 4.3 billion kuna, which will be financed from where. The domestic financial sector doesn't have that money. No one will give them to us on the international capital market. What our government is looking for these days is money for its most basic expenses. She's looking for our banks like she did, giving her money like she did to pay the salaries to a civil servant, and what is the money that the banks gave and the expense of who? At the expense of the economy. And we are now in a situation where the state is sucking up money from the financial market that is necessarily needed by the economy to preserve jobs and maintain economic growth in the coming year. This Mr. Shuker you've taken now is necessarily needed by the Croatian economy now and in the following year. And the deficit is the result of a wasteful government. Governments that have spent over every measure in the last five years. And now it has put the standard and jobs of its citizens at risk, because there is no money to help the economy. And that money would be managed in a responsible way with our country. The deficit is not the fault of public service employees, nor of respecting a collective contract. The deficit is the fault of the Croatian government, i.e. the parties involved. And that's the order of HDZ, HSS, HSS, HSU and SDSS, because they've been supporting such a government for the last year or five years. They are to blame for the deficit that our budget is entering and why there is no money to help our economy at this difficult moment and to turn it around to export. What I'm most afraid of in the budget is the unrealisticity of planning. The budget is planned on an economic growth of 2%. I think it's unrealistic, especially in a situation where in the coming year our economy will suffer the most because of a recession that we will enter and a lack of money on the financial market. I think it's much more realistic 0.5%. On the other hand, spending will be very difficult to keep in these frameworks. And then what are we doing under these conditions? Instead of helping the economy and investing in it, we are reducing incentives for the economy, 11%. And what did we cut? We have reduced the promotion of business infrastructure by 13%, increased competitiveness of the Croatian industry by 30%, almost 50 million kuna. Incentive production by 21%. How do we plan to achieve the expected economic growth, Mr. Shucker? How am I supposed to reduce the negative balance of payments with abroad that is now more than 70 billion kuna by the end of the year over 80? The budget should also work towards protecting the standards of Croatian citizens. I don't see any measure there. How are you going to keep your jobs? How will you protect the standard of Croatian citizens? That's not in this budget. And in the end, I can't support this budget because it's not going in two basic directions. To preserve our economy in two ways. Through the standard of Croatian citizens and because of what goes into consumption that has been created due to the irresponsible spending of Croatian citizens' money by the Croatian government over the past 5 years. Because such a deficit structure guarantees that Croatia will be in big trouble next year. This deficit will have no one to finance and I believe that in the first quarter, and especially in the first half, we will have such problems in such a way that the state will not be able to service its operational expenditures without talking about investment. Such a deficit structure does not guarantee a growth of these planned 2%. In the end, this draft budget proved to me what I first said, and that is to go on as the water carries us, without the plan and knowledge of how to deal with the crisis that we have entered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22646	Thank you. And now we have one series of corrections, then a replica. First, correcting incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22647	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard to correct all the amounts of incorrect and unargumented allegations, but I'll try at least two, three. First of all, a colleague says incorrectly and irresponsiblely that this crisis is not the result of the global crisis. Today to say it, it means having closed ears and eyes and just not knowing what's going on around you. Today something so irresponsible to say where it is seen that the direct consequences are, here is a particular wood industry that has problems with exporting to Italy. Or tell this government introduces a deficit. Well, this government didn't invent a deficit or introduce it. Your governments had 6.3% of the deficit of enormous debt. We have reduced the deficit and are moving within the European Union standard where the deficit is allowed up to 3%, that is some standard. Therefore, this year's smallest deficit will be in the last ten years and more. And he says third, as far as the pensioners were concerned that you were really concerned about the pensioners, so you had a chance to pay them back when you were in power, but so many things were incorrectly said that it was a miracle.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22648	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22649	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. So I would call this speech not to discuss the budget because it was completely incorrect but political speech and pre-election is not yet a colleague of Maras. You also said that, I'm going to correct just some allegations that it's hard to correct everything, this budget is not the result of the global crisis, it's the consequence of the expensive government in five years. No, that's not true. You know what was expensive? It was expensive for my colleague Maras at the beginning of five years ago to pay back the debt to professors, cops, health workers for all those Christmases, for all that shift work you didn't pay off. Some European countries predict stagnation or negative growth and we predict 2% of economic growth. So much for how this government has done nothing. In 2003, from 10.9 billion to now, we cut the deficit in 2008 to 3.8 billion. Well, here, is that what absolutely nothing's done to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22650	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris Kunst is correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22651	Thank you very much. I don't think Count Munchausen would be ashamed of him. What he said about the global crisis that was not imported to Croatia I believe that my colleague did not read this budget at all according to what he was saying. So also Dubai feels the financial crisis of the world and where one Croatia is not normally in the whirlwind of these problems. And these complaints about social rights, questions, that's already a spent topic. Even these poor people who listen to you no longer believe you. Because you know how the budget was passed in 2000. Behind the back of the social partners, without the government sitting down with them and talking to them. That's why your strikes were in the third month. And I think it would be good to mention that you remember 1.6 billion, which is why this government has returned. Well, maybe this budget could use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22652	Thank you. And now we have further corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22653	Mr. Vice President. I will also appeal to the wrong allegations, in fact there were more of them, but especially the one that colleague Maras said that this crisis is not the product of the global crisis but of the incompetent government and the expensive government in the last five years. I mean, first of all, this international economic market and the environment are completely today characterized by the emergence of an exceptional financial crisis and it started on the US real estate market and hit the capital market everywhere in the world. And today, many governments are trying to find a way to avoid a general economic collapse. Well, obviously, it turns out that this government is guilty because it's raining. Furthermore, I'd like to ask you a question why you're not offering an alternative. It's obvious that you're not offering an alternative because you're afraid to take the amendments from one position and put them on the other and you're doing it all because the local elections are coming and you think that you're going to be able to change that for the people. That's not the way it's gonna go, gentlemen on the left.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22654	Now we have a correction to the incorrect quote by Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22655	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Here, I'd correct one of a series of incorrect arguments by Mr. Maras, but I'll just focus on one part of it and that's when he said that this government had blindfolded eyes when it was doing the budget and that this government didn't see this situation that was present today. Mr. Maras, I'm going to deny you right now. This is not true because it is precisely in this 2009 budget in positions precisely for those target groups that see an increase of 6.6% and these are births, children and unemployed. Also, the second amendment. It is not true that your eyes are tied to this government but are tied to your eyes when you do not see what the Mayor of the City of Zagreb is doing because he buys for the money of these births, families and all the citizens of Bezovica who take the tax and buys armor, helicopters, etc. And there's no kindergarten in Bezovica. That might be a shame to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22656	Dear MPs, time's up. Please, let's stick to the rules of procedure. I'll say it for the third time. Let's not from our Rules of Procedure that we've brought in the jerks to work. ... There's no throwing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's just no way around the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Honourable representative Krunoslav Markovinović rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22657	Well, here's my colleague's statement again incorrectly, and several times my colleague Maras reiterated that the reason for this now expensive government has been for the past five years which is definitely not. Let's remember how many ministries there were back then. But to compare what a cheap government that was SDP's does. The cheap government allowed its ministers to supply their businesses with money, businesses, so the cheap government gave privates as much as needed in their pocket from budget money. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22658	Marine, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22659	Marin's never gonna make it to Pantovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22660	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22661	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Maras, who said what the government had done in the past five years, spent beyond measure. It's completely incorrect and just the other way around. I'm just reminding you, in 2003, the budget deficit 6.3%, the end of this year expected about 1%, we'll see when there's a report on the implementation of the state budget. And remember, an esteemed colleague of your predecessors' amendments in all these five years to the state budget of 4 to 5 billion amendments to counter the reduction of the budget deficit. So whoever's acting irresponsiblely discuss it on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22662	Thank you. And now we've got a replica show again. Let's go in turn, first is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22663	Here, so I have to agree with my colleague Maras, but I'm going to have to add it a little bit. To bring us the economic crisis, so that the economic crisis can find us and that there is no global financial crisis. In fact, it's hard to make up for 13, over 13 billion euros, 13 billion kuna from sales of HT last year, that's 12% of the budget. It's hard to find that money. For example, this year is never again a new debt of 15 compared to 12 billion and never more money to pay off existing debts from 11 to 9.5 billion compared to 9.5 billion. Also, what we can rightly ask is, does this mean that next year we will have some unscheduled sale of national assets, which is not the planned budget, whether we will have a Croatian company next year to resell this year. If I wanted to be bad, and I'm not bad, I could say it's the city of Zagreb, for example. In the last two years, 1.6 billion kunas have been taken, if I wanted to be bad, I would say that the city of Zagreb paid not to freeze payments in the state service last year. The citizens of Zagreb are paying for it, that I want to be bad, but I'm not bad. You also mentioned your colleague Maras well and the reduction of money for the economy and entrepreneurship. In accordance with the guidelines of the European Commission... The plan that we're not even talking about here today, encouraging the economy is something that is extremely important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, this budget envisions a reduction, a shipbuilding subsidy, whether it means cancellations in shipbuilding, whether this is the plan. The point to encourage competitiveness development is smaller, to encourage exports is smaller, it is what are the problems and what is not good, not to invest in the economy in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22664	Thank you. And now the answer is to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Bernardic, you've noticed this well, and I can only say one thing, I am definitely sure and I claim it here, Croatia is not ready for the economic crisis because of the expensive and growing administration over the past 5 years. Only at an increase in the price of kilometres of highways could 4 to 5 billion kuna have been saved by some estimates. Just look at the costs your administration has, i.e. the cold drive, that's huge money, if we had that money now, you could give Minister Schuker money to the economy next year and preserve that economic growth and, analoguely, you'd better fill the budget. Because of the fact that the state was over-expanded, not critically and arrogantly spent money, we now have problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22666	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22667	Thank you very much. Before I start talking to you, I must warn myself not to mention the name Bandic or the name Cacic, not to challenge my colleague Markovinović and colleague Šolić, but in any case you are on your way, your thought Croatia is not ready for the crisis that is ahead of us. Today, in the introduction of this budget, we heard a great truth from Minister Shuker, finally, all these years when we claimed to have a deficit, a hidden deficit and a hidden bomb in health, they said not true. However, today we have heard that we have problems in health care and we have heard from Minister Shuker if we fail to secure this reprogramme with funds on some of the possible markets that we will end up like Iceland and Hungary. The fact is, you mentioned shipbuilding, the fact is that we don't have a vision in the shipbuilding, and we don't have statements and budget items that we don't have the means to take care of those 40% employees how likely they'll be without a job and what's going to be a bitter truth when they need to be told, so far we're still hiding them. And also the fact that in Croatia, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development has reduced the potential, and we say that we should, we should give support to the economy, just as the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was founded to provide support in export to provide incentives for export, simply provide for our economy... the means necessary and so that they can create their reproductive function and create a new value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I think that in one part, the government has prepared and aware of the crisis, says yesterday's Code of Emergency on Golf Courses in terms of a new offer on the tourist market, regardless of the consequences that will be directly linked to the units of local administration and damage to the state-owned country, but I believe that the Government, that the government has become aware of the crisis but that in this budget and these preparations is not aware of the overall dimension of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22668	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22669	Well, the government is not aware, and unfortunately, the HDZ's representatives, what's going on, what's going on, even when we're talking about the deficit. Someone mentioned to me Mr. Matušić that the deficit in percentage was higher in 2000 to 2003, as a percentage, yes, but in nominal terms no, in nominal terms no. And let me remind you, Mr. Matusic, besides everything else, why it's a deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22670	Please, don't argue like this... you HDZ mention...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22671	No, no, I, Mr. Koračević mentioned, Mr. Koračević mentioned the deficit, and I want to explain why I think this deficit is bad, and in 2000, our government used the deficit to pay the internal debts of the state of 9 billion kuna, which our HDZ left us with. And that's the deficit, and you've been covering your expenses with your deficit for the last five years. Because you haven't restructured and done anything. In 2003, the government left you a favourable situation, and there was a skill that led her to this level. Unfortunately, the HDZ deficit you have cannot be compared to this. Yours goes all the way into consumption, and that one goes into development.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22672	Gentlemen, gentlemen! We have a replica of Mrs. President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22673	You're asking a question from your colleagues where money now to reduce deficits, so answer you, but maybe here let Mr. Minister hear it. According to relevant institutions, without any legal basis, it is not authorised, it is owned and used by hotels and other tourist institutions, hear me well 20 million square meters, which need and which make up state property, state property. It's real estate land, 20 million square meters. Let it be sold, or put into lease, so that's for a minimum of 50 euros because that's the most valuable land, you have 7 billion kuna, here's an example, that's just one example. I have an entire notebook of such examples. And that's one example for you, but I don't have time to put it all out right now. And that is now an example of how Croatia is peeled. If we were in a banana, we'd heard that. But how to peel Croatia. And bananas usually have one crust. How many crusts does Croatia have, how many goulashes is there? But they don't Google it because it's just because they're allowed to do it. And now the real question is why? Why is it tolerated for such persons who have acquired an enormous wealth on what belongs to the state that the state does not manage and reduces the deficit and uses it for useful, useful purposes. Why is our money leaving like that? That's the question. If I don't get an answer, then people rightly say, "Half drinks, half gives."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22674	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22675	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. You've noticed the question of where we got the money. The money on a budget like this is going to be less and less. Economic growth won't be 2%. Here's what I can say here. It'll be closer to zero than 2%. On the other hand, not only will there be no money from economic growth or from the newly created value or tax that the state should introduce. There won't be any money from the financial sector either. The state will spend and will put pressure on banks to spend the money the economy needs. The state will withdraw money for its operating costs and for small companies and for those that should generate growth create a newly created value, place goods abroad will be no money. And that is why I believe that this deficit is dangerous for our country, for our economic growth and for the whole future and for the situation that will happen next year. I hope that the HDZ colleagues will see it and that they will correct these things in the budget until the end of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22676	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the man here hears things he just can't believe. The former justice minister is talking about someone robbing tourist land today. Well, that was in her vault. She was a minister for three years. She could have handled it 15 times and no one would have told her anything like the Ministry of Justice together today, the tourism ministry proposed a solution to that tourist plot. So that's not the problem that's come up now. It's a problem that was before and that you could solve during your government. Dear Representative Maras, if I were to speak in this High House of Finance, then I would learn financial terms because it's impossible to correct and follow you because you simply, don't be angry, but you're chasing things. You say the deficit in 2000 was because the deficit was financed in 1999. If it was a deficit in 1999, then it can't be a deficit again in 2000. It's just some of these notes. But look, you were talking from this pay phone about how Croatia will not use pre-accession funds, how it is a disaster. Today you had a chance to see for yourself a week ago, according to a press conference that Vincent Degert held with me, and it was said to be 94% usable. And you said a month and a half ago: "Treasury! With the break of the world, everything will collapse, Croatia has no idea! This government has done nothing!" And what are you going to say now? So you can pick up incorrect allegations as much as you want these are basic facts and the number is the number. The number never lies. She can always be checked out. According to how much PHARE's usability is 2006 you can check. To say that the crisis has nothing to do with what is happening in the world is simply amazing. So offer an argument with what did Croatia produce the crisis? As the banks of the Croatian banks collapsed in the world, they had a stable financial sector. While the world's savings were scrambling and taking their deposits from their own, business banks after the government's decision to raise secured deposits to 400 thousand in Croatia did not happen. And you can say whatever you want. What happened in stable times when there was traffic in the Rijeka Bank, and what move was made at that time to make sure it didn't happen badly with the Rijeka Bank? Good move. I won't criticise that it was a bad move. It was a good move to prevent the savings stampede from withdrawing deposits from the Rijeka Bank because that would not have existed today. We can say other things about this, about that, but I'll never say that with that move she didn't stop her from riding. So it would be fair of you to say the same, but obviously you don't know what was going on on on the 10th 10th? If you knew what happened to the 10.10th business banks, if you had any responsibility towards your own country, then you would never say that. They would never say that because you just don't know what's going on. The other thing... The other thing, I won't, why should I tell you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know everything, don't you? The second thing, if at that point, it was between 6th and 10th in the European Union, all countries were panicking, all countries were making a decision to secure deposits, like this, so I don't see the difference between Croatia and other countries. But if this budget is so bad, if it's a disaster you could offer a new one. You offered a set of tax laws offering a deficit of 13 billion kuna. The other thing is, do you agree within your club is it a deficit or not a deficit? From a statement from all those who came from the SDP, you've advocated the deficit. I respect your commitment to economic policy and you probably have reasons to suggest it. But don't criticise if we and this small deficit want to further calm down, reduce for a simple reason, so I've been saying that for months I want to leave room for the Croatian economy. If I were talking to the rhetoric you're talking about, then I'd say next year I'm having trouble paying off the 750 million-euro loans that the government has charged, I'm not going to mention the late president of your party, but that would be bullshit on my part. Why? Well, because these are processes that happen in all governments. One government always raises credit, others reprogram them. But your rhetoric would be going that way right now. So that 750 million is in charge of one period where you've been in power just like some other government, whether HDZ, whether or not someone else is returning these loans that we're now raising. The second thing, when you talk about money obtained from the privatisation of HT, you should know how many privatisations and how many privatisation incomes were in your three-year term? And how many privatisation incomes were in office five years from this government? And we can check that out, too, and we can talk to the arguments. We can fight politically here, speak falsely, but I have never had such a political rhetoric. I have always tried to base my political, fighting and conflict on arguments and what I have never insulted my political opponents. I tried to be perfectly correct. And when I told you a colleague, I told you because most of the people in your club and women and men can tell a colleague, because we've known each other for years and we've been communicating so much with each other, and therefore I had no intention of insulting you. But I don't know how much more I'm gonna say hello to Arsen when I meet him at the game I want to give him a hand or I don't want him to be offended, etc. But it's okay. It's some kind of new rhetoric. It's another thing. If you say it's 13 billion, if it's 13 billion since HT privatisation, then tell me where they ended up. First of all, it's not 13 billion. The other thing, you should know that, those money went to pay off the pensioners. The third thing if you're already talking about the deficit, if you're talking about public finances then you should know that there are only two models to finance the deficit. It's either a new borrowing or a family silver sale. Who thinks of selling family silver in moments when the price on the stock market is what it is. But I say, it's very difficult to discuss a debate that has no argument. A debate based on some sort of imagination. However, the budget is a very exact thing. Each spending party has its own name and last name. There is also why and ultimately that you have read the Budget Law then you would know exactly what can be done in the budget of amendments within what time limit. The other thing is also as long as you can get the budget and it's all going. However, I've told you I've been a witness here. I was an opposition representative. There's a budget. So the IMF said there's no gentlemen there. Reduce it by a billion and a half. So came the second budget, but all within a few days. So when this second budget comes, we come in the morning for a budget vote, and that 6 amendments should satisfy coalition partners, too. Well, no one's been panicking about it. But that's what you did. That's how you proposed the budget. Why? Well, because that was the situation. Well, I'm sure the Church would have made a bigger budget if the IMF had let him. But he wouldn't let him, and he should respect that. And that's why no one crucified him here. So do we. It's not true that we've proposed a budget of 10 billion. That's just not true. You read something, but you read it wrong. But if you knew how the budget works, then you would know that budget users are heading towards the Ministry of Finance with their wishes and that's the logical thing. And when the budget is created, these desires are slowly cut and reached at a certain level. The only budget we went out with was the one with the zero deficit. We went with a proposal to cut the pay money. We haven't reached the social agreement and the social dialogue that we have, unlike the fact that the former government hasn't told it. But I'm saying, pre-accession funds are the best indicator of how a political thing can be exploited. Then, in the end, the real results come. Listen, people who work have results, and some just talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22678	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There's about 25 blankets of one weight application here. There are now 7 correcting incorrect allegations on this minister's exhibit. So, I guess we're just taking a little time to go, fly, and we're wasting time. First correction, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22679	When Mr. Minister, here I am warning my colleague that 20 million square meters should be managed because they are its property, that at least it could be incomed annually 7 or monthly 7 billion kunas to me Mr. Minister incorrectly, so to silence me and at the rate of five speeds it goes back into the past and incorrectly calling me to power in a certain vault. It is known whose resort.../The speaker has been disabled and reactivated./... and has been mysteriously withdrawn. So the basic question is that it is true that it lies unused, on the road, on the 7 billion that someone has picked up. And why are you protecting you instead of picking up that money that belongs to the state, not them?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22680	Representative Mr. Nenad Stazic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22681	You're telling the Ministers that the government has solved this tourist land. No, no. The government has prepared the law to get rid of it in favour of the private. Yesterday, there's a colleague, Shakespeare, who kept us here until 22.30 to discuss at that deaf time of night about the Law on Golf Courses, where state land, forest, land units of local self-government will be granted... [[Intruder: 22.35. Correction.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22682	Comrade Stazic, so don't be like Caton, Ceteron, Cenzeo all the time. So correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22683	And 25% of that land the apartments, by extorting it will come to that, and then they will sell the apartments... That way... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22684	That way, this isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. That way. So, fellow Stazic, come on, be nice. I know that you have a desire to talk like Caton every time about a subject like this right now, and what is the subject of yesterday's debate on the Golf Act. Don't! Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22685	Thank you very much. I would correct the imprecise allegations of Minister Shucker who said that I said that we were paying the deficit in 1999 with the deficit in 2000. No, I told Mr. Schucker that with that deficit, we paid the debts of the HDZ government in '99. which amounted to nine billion kunas. And if you haven't noticed between 2000 and 2003, Croatia has built heavily. The growth was 5% to 6%, and as far as the budget is concerned, which you've now recently objected to me for saying that it's downgraded. That's not what I said. That's what Prime Minister Sanader said that we would have to cut the budget by 15 billion kuna. So much for planning this government and you yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22686	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22687	Thank you very much. So I want to correct the imprecise quote of Minister Shuker, which he presented in part of the pre-accession funds and the use of pre-accession funds. I want to remind you that we did not politicise on the use of pre-accession funds, and that we were right to speak and the decision of the European Commission when it blocked us from using pre-accession funds for more than a year, when it reduced us. I know that what you waved with your hand is conditionally costing us and 50 million euros of small funds at that time. Therefore, the European Commission has suspended us because it has put us on hold for a year because of incompetence, intransparency and for convenience. Therefore, it consists of a correction to my incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22688	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22689	So I would correct two incorrect allegations by Minister Shucker, one is about the use of the European Union funds. So we didn't use 94%. We have signed the contracts by 94%, if we will use it we will not know until we hand over the evaluation papers to the European Commission and when the European Commission says ok. You used it, and you don't have to pay back the money. And since we're working on a purifier for Karlovac, I'm afraid we're going to have to pay back the money for a purifier for Carlovac because it costs 5 million euros more than it's supposed to cost and it's three years late. And secondly, the government has not made a decision to raise a deposit guarantee in Croatian banks to $400,000, but rather to this House by passing the law. By passing the law, the Croatian Parliament has raised a guarantee of savings stakes to 400,000 kuna. [[/Intruder: On whose proposal?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22690	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Two corrections to Mr. Secretary Shucker's incorrect allegations. Again, he claims it is a financial crisis in Croatia. That's not true. This is about the economic crisis in Croatia and the structural crisis. And secondly, the minister says we didn't have to resuscitate the banks, other states have been rehabilitated. That's right. Because Croatia would not be able to resuscitate banks every 10 years and sell them for 3 billion kuna less than it cost to resuscitate. It is, therefore, not the financial crisis in Croatia, but the economic and social crisis, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22692	And Mr. Agent Ivan Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22693	You said, "If we cared about the development of the economy then we wouldn't be discussing the budget in this way." Well, on the contrary, we care, and that's why we're discussing the budget in this way. And not only that, we care, and that is why we have sent a package of laws in the parliamentary procedure that want to help the Croatian economy invest. We care, and I expect you to put those points on the agenda by the end of this session to help the economy have lower investment costs in the following year, to have a discount. That's why we care, and that's why we're heading out, and that's why I expect when we care, I hope you care that we'll discuss it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and I'm throwing you a glove to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22694	The glove can be thrown in the ring. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22695	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the 2009 draft budget because it is realistically planned and only possible under these conditions. The global recession and crisis exported from the United States to the rest of the world has and will have consequences in Croatia, which is the draft budget, and that is why it is the way we got it on the bench. With a responsible economic policy in the past stable banking system, by introducing order into state finances, by establishing a state treasury, by insisting on reducing the budget deficit in the years when the revenues of the state budget grew at high rates and at significant amounts, by taking measures recently taken such as the provision of savings deposits to 400 thousand kuna, Croatia has well prepared itself in the first wave of crisis and has created a prerequisite that the crisis is as far around as possible and that the consequences of the crisis are as low as possible. And the 2009 budget is right on the trail. I am convinced that Croatia will be more willing to welcome the crisis from many countries, including some in the European Union, especially countries in our environment. The €124 billion budget, which is 5.3% growth compared to 2008, GDP growth of 2% per year is reality and respecting everything that is happening in the world is in no way discouraging. And the estimated budget deficit of 4.3 billion kuna is a reality at this time, because otherwise it would have to give up the necessary reform of the health system and the signed contracts with trade unions in public services on the salaries of public administration employees would have to be unilaterally put out of force, and the question is how much would a long-term state cost, which is nevertheless responsible for a government like this, cannot allow. In the 2009 budget, the balance of social justice and development imperatives was taken into account. There is no question of pensions, child's allowance, maternity benefits, social benefits and there is a significant increase in the budget compared to 2008. I am particularly pleased that in the draft budget, the Ministry of Family and Defence provides sufficient resources for the consistent application of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families and that defenders and the victims' population will by no means be deprived. At the same time, it will take care of development and will ensure continuity from the previous year of 5.1 billion kuna in 2009 to promote the development of entrepreneurship. That regional development programmes will be provided with 3.4 billion kuna. To plan 3.6 billion kuna for capital investment in the budget. Increased funds have also been provided to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior for the fight against organised crime and corruption, which shows the government's consistency to work systematically on one of the major social problems. I am also pleased as a Slavonac because from this budget it is visible that the investments started or planned in Slavonia will continue in 2009 but are also in projection for 2010 and 2011. In view of everything mentioned in the introduction, I will support the draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22696	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On what terms do we bring this budget? The conditions of the crisis at global level and the inability of the government... /The speaker turned off, then re-plugged./... I'd beg you to
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22698	Don't let anyone accidentally turn off the microphone. We're starting over.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for giving me your word. In what conditions do we bring this budget? On the one hand, under the conditions of the global crisis, and on the other hand in the inability of the government and the obvious inability to deal with the crisis. The country is simply not prepared for this crisis. We heard here from counterpart Matusic, colleague Roksandic, colleagues of Markovanovic, they think that Racan's government should have prepared the country for this crisis. Minister Shuker just explained to them that it's nonsense, but I doubt they'll understand. For five years, this government has been in charge. He's been in charge for five years. Now under the circumstances of the crisis, the Government of the Head. Look, you're gonna freeze the pay, you're not gonna freeze the pay. You'll bring five kunas on cigarettes, you won't bring five kunas on cigarettes. You will pay the pensioners a Christmas card, and you will not pay them back, and you will make a contribution for the flag to the pensioners, and you will not admit it. Well, free textbooks for all students, and then no. So if I were to use Prime Minister Sanader's dictionary, you don't know if you'd pee or poop. You say "crisis," and what's the answer to this crisis? Is this the crisis budget? No, that budget when we look at his items, at one index of 102 percent, on the second item of 98%, just there, a few percent, very important. So, it is quite evident that there is no elaborate financial policy, i.e. There is one in which a representative of the HDZ Club says that it is also a bad policy – politics. That's the kind of policy he's got. Misleading the characteristics of bad policy. Well, that's where it's been for a long time. For example. In a pre-election campaign, the prime minister promises a 7% economic growth. Now barely 2%, 7% has never been achieved. One obvious deception for the purpose of obtaining votes. Not long ago, he said, the global crisis is bypassing Croatia, it exists, but it will not happen to us, we have misery, we have defence, it bypasses Croatia. A few days later, he admits "we're in bananas." Faced with this disaster, the government proposes first the freeze of wages, and when it gives in to trade union pressure, it decides what, the deficit. But at the same time, he blames the unions for that deficit. And again, deception, unnecessary deception. It's like people can't calculate. The deficit is 4.3 billion and at salary, on these 6%, it takes only a billion and a half. Therefore, the unions and this 6% increase cannot possibly be the cause of this deficit. It is clear that without this 6% that it is due to huge government spending, the increase in bureaucratic apparatus, that is where relatives, party people are suffering. And now, of course, that's worth it. That's what it costs. That's what someone should pay for. In 15 ministries there are 63 state secretaries. Three and a half times more than in that Racan government that had 19 ministries. So these State Secretarys also need some salaries, secretaries, their offices. The unions are blamed for the deficit with this 6% increase with it not being any increase, because inflation has reached 8% this year. Therefore, when their wages are slightly improved, they will barely patch up the holes that inflation has created this year. Prices rise, wages actually fall, drop by 1% at the very least, all accumulates, gas here is 22%, electricity accumulated. They were said not to feel poor, so go ask them when their bills began to arrive if they felt or didn’t feel if you knew any of them at all. Fuel is more expensive than in Slovenia. There are 6 kunas in Slovenia. When the price of oil grew on the world market then it was here immediately immediately in five minutes the fuel prices increased. And the reason was said to be an increase in the price of oil on the world market. Now that it's down, it's gone, they don't drop those prices. Well, of course, VAT is charged on fuel, so it's in favor of the minister. Slovenia, which does not have its own oil sources, has cheaper fuel for it to buy on Mars, so it buys on the same market. But the Slovenians do not have the Croatian government and do not have Minister Shuker, there is their happiness. You've been screaming to heaven during Racan's government that every citizen is in charge, I don't know how many you've spoken 3,000 euros, 4,000 euros. He is now in charge of an average of 8,000 euros each citizen. People live off the minuses on your accounts. That's what they pay dear interest to the banks and they don't know how they're gonna make ends meet. What is the attitude towards state money, however, towards state property. Is she treated with care, care, is she trying to preserve herself, is she trying rationally to spend it, or is she incinerating it? Look, 10 million kunas of budget money were spent on lobbying in just two embassy. And where are the results of that lobbying, who paid for that lobbying, why just those two embassies? I'd still understand that you lobbyed in Slovenia because they're not letting us into these negotiations right now, but you're lobbying in the wrong place, with those who support us and spent 10 million kuna on it. That's the attitude to budget money. What about 15 million kunas unnecessarily paid for military trucks? Where are they? But if you have such a relationship with the budget money, then this deficit won't be enough for you to cover it all. What's the attitude to state property? Mr. Vice President of Parliament, by 22.30 yesterday we discussed a law that speaks of this government, what is its relationship to state property. They'll buy themselves cheap or they'll come to land... Even private owners, local self-government units commit to sell this land to private golfers, they will when they reach that land, make apartments there, cheaply come out of savings, make maybe some golf courses, cut the grass, dig 18 holes and those flags, and then sell apartments with a view to golf courses, neither will they deal with golf or that interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're interested in making state money, and that's what this government lets them get rich. It's a story of 100 wealthy families, now there's not 100 but 60 of those golfers. You must know their names and last names. It's a relationship to state property, it's a robbery of that state property. It is no wonder that such actions must be covered by deficits and new responsibilities. If they continue to do so, that deficit will go on forever. Who's going to take him back? Who's going to put him back behind you later? I really don't know, and what these governments are going to have to do and where they're going to be able to task themselves to cover everything that you're capable of... on trucks, on embassies, on lobbying and on guessing to your friends for 60 selected investors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Turns on the red light, I see my time for debate is running out, but the time for discussion will be enough. I'm afraid there's not much time left for this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22700	Thank you very much. Apparently, my appeal was to reduce the number of corrections, so now it's increased to 9, with two replicas. First Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting, but I hope that my colleagues from the SDP will be so cultural that they allow me to say what I want to say and which quote I want to correct. I'm correcting Mr. Stazic's allegations, as someone said politics is also a bad policy. I was only correcting the wrong allegations by Mr Milanovic, who said Croatia has neither economic nor economic policy. And I argued that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian state has an economic and economic policy, and this shows a number of indicators. So the 50% growth of gross domestic product per capita in four years, 100 thousand less unemployed than 4 years ago and 5 years ago, the average economic growth of 4.8% and 8.7% of the unemployment rate not recorded in the history of the Croatian state. And I also corrected Mr Milanovic's incorrect allegations, so I told him, if you want Mr Milanovic and the bad policy, economic and economic policy is also politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22702	Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for correcting Mr. Stazic's claim that growth pays 6% to civil servants and is not some growth, inflation reached 8% in 2008. That quote would be an accurate fellow in your care for the workers, and I'm a little short-eyed so that I don't call myself what I'm called, that I don't remember the time you took those same civil servants off their salaries by 30% in 2000. And this is just one in a series of allegations that you said in your selective and always partial approach, which I don't mind you very much, because in such a position as you were taking out of context the prime minister's statement in the campaign to expect economic growth in Croatia 7%, you did not say that it was a completely different economic situation not only in the environment but in the whole world. So it's complete. It would be true if you could tell the rest of the story about the circumstances in which the president said so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22704	Third Amendment Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22705	Thank you very much. Well, here's a fellow Stazic, as usual, I should fix the whole speech, but time won't let me, so I'll do the next one. I am correcting his incorrect claim that some of my colleagues will not understand what is going on, he has named them as being rude, these colleagues of mine are very intelligent and understand what is going on with fellow Stazic. It is incorrect that the prime minister said that the crisis would bypass us, he only said that it would be easier for us because we prepared a state budget by reducing it from 6.5 deficits that you left us to 2.3 today and below 1%. That's what he said. And in the end, it's incorrect that we don't know when we're gonna pee or when we're gonna poop. When we hear you, we know exactly what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22706	Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Next amendment. Which sows it to reap or vice versa!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22707	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I want to correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations that the deficit was due to an increase in wages and uncontrolled public spending. That's not true. The deficit was planned to cover.../The speaker went off, so he turned it back on./... Thank you, state officials and health reforms, which Minister Shuker.../The speaker turned off, and then turned it on again./... that Mr Stazic cannot remember it, and in the end almost all the MPs advocated it. In the end, I want to say that no debate... He can't get past his peers without mentioning bananas, so I suggest they set up a banana-loving club, which would make Mr. Stazic the perfect president. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22708	Okay. Here, fellow Stazic, here's your offer, you need to think about it, there's time. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here, my colleague Stazic incorrectly called the negotiations between the Croatian government and the social partners "governing", the most expensive "governing" in Croatian history was the agreement between the SDP government and the social partners we sign today, we do not recognise tomorrow and then the name of the government that went behind them, our government paid a billion and 600 million kuna, therefore, for the Guinnes Book of Records definitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22710	Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is very difficult after such exposure by Mr. Stazic in a short time to correct it. He said the price of oil derivatives wasn't lowered. It's just not true. It's a co-ordinate lie. But in addition to insulting MPs and speech of impatience, I must conclude that everything Mr. Stazic has said is incorrect. He said the forecast was 7% growth, and he did not ask Mr. Jurcic, who is sitting next to him how much SDP predicted growth in the election campaign when she was. He can ask Mr. Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22712	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, most of my colleagues have already corrected it, but I'm going to fix another quote, not because of us here because we know that my colleague Stazic is actually joking and that's not the case, and he doesn't believe it either. So when he's talking about that kind of robbery. But still, here goes the television broadcast, and that's a convenient opportunity, he's doing it quite skillfully. So when he talks about golf courses and so on. So it is not true that Croatia is thus robbing itself, state property and so on. After all, if it turns out that some law is wrong, we will change it and hope that these young people upstairs who sit and watch us one day play really golf in Croatia and be happy and satisfied and indeed, do not believe everything you hear in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22714	All right, all right. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would also correct this quote by my colleague Stazic that by adopting the Law on Golf Courses, there will be a robbery of state property and that we will please our friends. First of all, a colleague, the Law on the Golf Course, will allow these golf courses to finally be built. The second thing, units of local self-government are able to control, which control through their spatial plans what and how much construction will be on these golf courses, so not the government, but units of local self-government. And third thing, we don't have no superiors or anything. And we don't even have Cacic's companies to pour money into them from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22716	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22717	Well, Mr. Vice President, I believe my colleague Stazic knows that very well, but he did, so little for himself, say that the government gave in to the unions. He knows that a collective contract is a two-sided contract act and that if someone breaks it, the consequences, and then the consequences cost, you've heard it today. So the government didn't want what the government did, not to respect some contract act. And she didn't cancel the collective agreements at the 12th month of 2000, as the government did then, in which you presided. So this government respected it. So she didn't give in to anything, she just respected what she signed, which is a collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22718	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22719	Love for golf, fellow Stazic often lacks a price, and this golfing government has just proved its readiness to sell the most valuable Croatian country along the coast to domestic and foreign tycoons. But this irresponsible and harmful policy of the HDZ government, this current government, where only the continuity of HDZ's previous governments from the 1990s. By listening to my colleagues on my left, I'd be wondering if maybe General Zagorac was a SDP man listening to the responsibilities of the former Racan government. Looks like he also had an SDP card. It is possible that these jewels are located in vaults in Iblero's square. But let's leave it, it was a long time ago so many don't remember it, but this irresponsible HDZ policy continued during this government from 2004 to 2007. I'd just like to warn you about the robbery in infrastructure works. A kilometer of highways jumped from 4m to 8m kuna and that highway towards Dubrovnik would already be ready for the money today and Croatia's highways would not be tortured on the foreign market to be in charge of the new 200m euros to end the highway. And why is that? Because that 200 million euros ended up in somebody's pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22720	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22721	First of all, my colleague, thank you very much for replicating me. You did not act as a fellow Filipovic who went to correct my allegations, and in the end corrected his quote from this morning because he said that bad policy was also a policy, which I did not invent, he was already on the portals to quote that statement, he had already become widely known because of that morning's statement. And it is likely that this glory of his will continue to spread as time goes by. I believe he will be one of the most quoted representatives in this debate today. You're talking about a robbery, you're talking about a robbery like a system that rules. There is now one of the HDZ colleagues who said, they are not golf courses, it is not such a law that Croatia robs itself of. No, no. Do not rob this Croatia itself. There's one particular government that creates a legal assumption, a legal assumption that there's a certain group of people, 60 of them robbing everyone else. That's the sin of structure. You know, when someone walks into the Rijeka Bank and makes a robbery, it's a robbery, it's a robbery. He's going to court, so when they prove themselves to him in court, he goes to jail. That's so clear. But when someone passes a law by which the robbery will be legal as it happened in the 1990s, then it's incorrectible. Comrade Pancic, then it's incorrectible. There is no more court to condemn such a thing. No, because he'll always be able to say yes, so I acted only legally as they say today about conversion and privatisation we acted legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22722	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22723	My colleague Stazic, since last night's golf debate was in the late hours, so our citizens don't know what it was about. I think they're very confused, especially if they were able to read the draft of this budget in some way. You see, in the proposal for this budget, the tourism ministry says this way: "Incentive to tourism, the golf programme as elements of the Croatian tourism development strategy last year is worth a million and 400 thousand kuna, this year only 100 thousand kuna. The golf programme as an element of the Croatian tourism development strategy last year is 900 thousand kuna, this year 0 kuna. The public golf course program last year is 500 thousand kuna, this year 100 thousand kuna." This would allow them to conclude that they don't care much about the ministry in golf or government. They seem to care about something else. To the part where he doesn't play with those balls. To that part, the 25% where something's going to be built. I think that's one important topic when we're talking about this budget, even though we've heard a cacophony here, I think. And in a literally transmitted sense from digestive interference to the problem of exotic fruit growing on other continents, and one prominent politician from the other day, and HDZ is in a very high position in Split, they call "hombre bananaero". You see, that politician said he's in a banana he's with a group of people. I don't ask, he says we're in a banana. And then we're suggested by HDZ that we become banana lovers. Thank you, Lippa. I'm not crazy about opening a banana, and inside I'm getting a hombre banana.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22724	A colleague of the Stazic Replic, but your position as president of the banana-loving association is at stake.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22725	Look, colleague Jurjevic, you're talking about reduced budget items to encourage speech. Well, that makes perfect sense to me. Because yesterday's law the government proposed didn't propose to encourage golf. It's to encourage the wealth of 60 people. That's the purpose of the law, not golf. Therefore, things are not illogical, they totally agree. It is clear to me that the budget provides for smaller funds for golf. Because no one's ever thought of golfing in that government. They have in mind how they can learn that the money of the citizens of this country, the property comes into private hands, and maybe that they can be part of it or with them in a relationship, I don't know. But in any case, it would allow for a new robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22726	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22727	Well, after these bananas and jokes, let's get back to a serious budget debate. I'm not surprised when some of the MPs who spent time there in the Parliament say about some debts of a former government, so they go back 7.8 years, and then they say the other debts are about not respecting the collective wage contract, but I'm a little surprised when someone who was then president of a union and who negotiated with that government. So, '99. In the election campaign itself, an agreement was signed for parliament with trade unions on the 14% salary growth. At that time, the decline in social gross product was 0.9%. So in such a situation, an agreement was found between the then government and the union not to go through such pay growth. In this period, however, wages and nominal and realistically increased significantly by 2003. This has happened again in the campaign for this election for Parliament. A collective contract was signed to increase wages three times 6%, but it was still meant to be played. Fortunately, it didn't work. Now let me get back to the budget. I say this budget, it has no budgetary policy whatsoever. Why would he say that? Because in the last two, three months when it was meant to get deep into the creation of both budgetary policies and budgets, there was no crisis, and then at 1 3. He's having an 11th crisis. And we need more time to make a budget. It was said that at that time, growth will be 4%, says the economy minister, and then it is corrected by the Prime Minister that it will be 2%. Now we'll be happy if we don't have a fall in the economy. We'll freeze the pay, then we won't freeze it. The deficit will be zero when all European countries have a deficit of over 3% and this allows them to do so by the European Commission, because the situation is such that an increase in deficits can help their own economy. We don't do that. Changes in the state budget and before the debate are announced, so this is also not the definitive version that we are discussing today. Government amendments will come that will not stem from this debate. I'll make a comparison if you, for example. To the board of directors of a commercial company, the president of the administration proposed a business plan in this way and he would say, listen, but I might change it before the adoption, but then I'll give myself the opportunity to change it over the year without asking you that. You know what that Supervisory Board would do. He would have called off the president of the company's management. And now just a few, because it's a short time, a few things you'd look back on. We are talking about the deficit resulting from wage growth and a disguised health deficit, and I personally think that deficit is due to the lack of reforms in three major segments. The state administration, health care and pension system. What does the budget explain to us about the state administration? Well, nothing. He says we've passed a strategy, two, three laws. What did we really do? Almost nothing. We've hired several thousand people, we're going to set up a few additional agencies and each other's ministry in these 6%, or slightly more than 6% of the mass of wages, plans and new employment. For example, in the Ministry of Agriculture, as many as 250 new employees will be employed next year. As far as health care is concerned, there's no reform there either. The laws they propose are actually just new burdens and new sources of resources to cover health losses, and practically some real cuts that will in the long run solve financial problems in health. What about decentralisation? Well, since 2003, we've had a stalemate in decentralisation. Every year, the funds for decentralisation are reduced in real terms. It does not monitor the growth of inflation, nor does it monitor the growth of budgets. And what settles in education and health care as the largest systems? They need counties, or cities that have such a function to settle material costs. Well, energy's only increased over 20% in the last few months. There is also investment maintenance, there are investments that should be financed from these funds, and we propose to increase only by 1% this year that each year is a real decline of several percent. What about the support of the economy? 20% reduction in such aids, agricultural subsidies 11% related to current production by also using these funds irrationally because we have returned to those incentives at one hectare and one throat, which does not mean an increase in production, something else should be done and not in such a way the current production should be stimulated. We have low employment. All 48% of the active population is employed and the working population is only 43%. How to retain existing jobs and create new jobs if we do not provide basic assumptions for economic growth. What about the funds we started? Two funds that were supposed to be development generators, this is the Fund for Development and Employment and Regional Development each year in this last term, and this budget is reducing around 20%. What about the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which we think is the best credit institution to monitor the Croatian economy? By law, it should have a share capital of 7 billion kuna or founding capital. In 15 years, we've managed to get four billion from his budget. And now some of me will say about these conditions symbolic only 220 million that would be treated as founding capital. Our debt is growing, our colleague and our ministers are growing but our imports are rising at the same time. And what kind of situation do we have? The total external trade is such that for the first ten months we achieved 58 billion exports and 129 billion kuna imports. It's a deficit of over 70 billion. One part he'll have to cover himself through the borrowing of these companies or someone else, it's just a question of where that money will be found. There are no indications that we could include our domestic production to cover some of the domestic market needs that are imported. There are no short-term measures and, in particular, no long-term measures. I would just point out that in this segment of aid to the economy, we have also proposed two laws that have a destiny, like all opposition laws, so that we encourage those who invest, that we release them from paying taxes on profits if they invest in the current year, that we release them from paying taxes on profits, if they retain profits and do not pay them as dividends, because it is then aid in a way that they have their own trade assets in one part that they do not have to be in debt and seek the banks that will follow them at a high interest rate. We propose that in the next year which is difficult for the economy of freedom and payment of some of the contributions, such as the water contribution. This is where funds are accumulated in the fund, in Croatian waters. We do not know by which criteria is shared, how much this is appropriate for certain parts of Croatia or for certain units of local regional self-government and political similarity and the like. So, the budget sent to parliament only because it is the same year and what the government says even in these days until the adoption, especially in January or February, that budget will look quite different than it will be accepted in parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22728	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22729	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect that decentralised funds are shrinking. They are higher year by year and more powers are being transferred to local self-government and regional self-government units and thus the funds, so it is indeed incorrectly concluded that they are getting smaller from year to year. The second thing you say is there's no measure or programme in the economy. You see how there is, and there are measures and programs and when you talk about the economy then say that 5.1 billion will be referred to the economy for incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22730	Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22731	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I think this is the second time since I've been in this House I'm going to say the same thing and correct and that refers to the political resemblance that my colleague Zgrebec spoke of as being assigned to this budget. Comrade Zgrebec, I will only mention to you my neighbor Ploče where your mayor is my friend by the way Ante Karamatic. See only where the records are today compared to when you were in power. And ask my friend and your party colleague Ante Karamatic what he thinks of this government compared to the time you were in the government as his so-called. ... Well, look. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Go, take a look, and you'll get it all figured out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22732	And a replica of Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22733	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. In order not to pee too much here and poop as MP Stazic said, and I would like to perhaps representative Zgrebec to hear so that it does not have to be surprised that the former unionman remembers that power from 2000, so just to remind you that I fully believe that amnesia is not a serious disease. You see, in 2000, you adopted the budget without social partners, you cheated them on the GSV because you said you'd deal with them first. Then in the 5th month of 2000, you increased fuel excise duties, etc., cars, alcohol, etc. In the 12th month of 2000, you froze your salaries to state and public officials. Then you cut their salary by 5% that same year. In 22.12.2000, you cancelled a collective contract with public services, but therefore during the 3rd month of strikes by the Union of State and Public Services. Let me remind you, I've been running these strikes myself, and during this particular time, there's no one to strike. I'd like you to give me one activity to indicate who didn't strike. Your customs were on strike, the police were on strike, your police cadets were on strike, your taxpayers were on strike. There's no one who hasn't strike you in your time of power because in the end, I was there. Then, to remind you further in the 9th month, your Minister of Finance Churchvenac resigned if you remember because it was pressured by the fact that you introduced it, you came up with a guide to customs the products for the personal needs of citizens, those who carried 300 kunas across the border and you customs it back then. Then let me remind you, in 2001, you reduced their pay base to state and public officials by 7%. You fired extra employees. You handled the banks with the savings stakes of citizens who thus came to the ownership of 85% of the domestic banks of this foreign bank. Then to visit you further, you've introduced a new tax burden, I mean, you know, now I could one half hour remind a representative because I'm following that very period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22734	Replication response, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so you should look into the context of what was in 2000 was a decision on temporary funding up to 3 months, it was, there was no budget. The budget was made at the 3rd month, i.e. the 2nd month. You know, it couldn't have happened then, until then there were no negotiations with the social partners, the first talks with the unions in the history of the new Croatian state were in 2001. Remember my colleague Kunst, and I was present, we sat on Plitvices for three days and discussed the first social agreement between the government and the unions and employers. Strikes? Well, by 2000, no one dared strike. The deal was to freeze salaries in a situation where the government had to compensate for nine billion kuna owed by the state budget. Just remember what indifference it was, no one paid anyone, when in the first six months it all came together to our owners, nine billion kunas, it all got alive. Already in the first year of that government, we had a positive growth in production and gross social product. We came to 5.6% in that term, and even this government couldn't overcome it, they say it was either 5.6% last year. Therefore, my colleague Kunst, I understand you, you are sitting in Parliament today thanks to HDZ and you must speak in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22736	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22737	I thank Mr. Vice President, so in a way, I'm going to focus my debate on what I've heard so far, but I'm going to say some of the basic features of this budget ahead of us for 2009. Well, first of all, we have a real budget proposal that is both developmental and social. When we talk about development and, above all, about capital investment, we should mention all those incentives that are foreseen for both the economy and agriculture and rural development and all other activities. And what I am particularly interested in is the continuation of the large investments that take place in the far south of Croatia. So I will also welcome what the Prime Minister has said unequivocally today and what he has already said in the past months, and will continue to work on the Peljesac Bridge, which not only is Croatian pride, national pride, as he said, but will also mean real development of both Croatia's south and Peljesac and all the gravitating islands and will finally extract Croatia's, Croatian south from the isolation in which it is located, from traffic isolation. That's a fact. You are going from Croatia to Croatia today to other territory. I would ask you what the Varazdinci or Koprivnica would do and to behave if they had to go across other territory from that part of Croatia to Zagreb. Then how would you feel? So keep in mind a little bit, little bit, that part, that component that's extremely important. Today, citizens of the Republic of Croatia have to show all their documents and have to wait sometimes at the border crossings, both at one and the other, half an hour and more to welcome order and to keep all accounts for what they buy in Split or Zagreb, they have to keep an account to show it at customs to the customs office to verify it and to show it at the second customs office when it goes towards Dubrovnik. Such is the condition of dear colleagues who oppose the bridge, as you have opposed the bridge of Dr. Franjo Tudjman in Dubrovnik, which today means a strong cook for Dubrovnik. You said the same thing before the bridge was built like you do today before the Peljesac Bridge. Or something to say about the highway? Well, you're the one who got rid of the highway plans. In 2002, your mayor, together with the government who had a meeting in Split, said no highways were needed towards Dubrovnik, from Split to Dubrovnik. Of course, it caused a huge riot in the Croatian south, because it was our desire to build highways from Dubrovnik as well. We told the late President Tudjman, Mr. President, to make the Dubrovnik highway towards Zagreb because it will be the clearest sign of political will to connect Croatia to one whole. Fortunately today, Prime Minister Sanader reiterated it, and the work on the ground also contributes to the fact that the Dubrovnik highway, so from Osvojnik, from Osvojnik to Zaton Doli, according to the Dolims, will begin work towards Split at the beginning of this spring. And it's not, it's not a pre-election campaign, it's a continuity of politics that the Croatian Democratic Community has been carrying out together with its partners through its budgets for the past 5 years. What to say when we talk about the use of European funds. A few months ago, we participated here in the debate when we pointed out the fact that the use of European funds cannot be spoken of before the end of the 11th month when the period for negotiating the same projects ends. You spoke here in the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian State will use only 5% of the FAR in 2006, only 5%, unfortunately for your rhetoric and for your delusions, the president of the Republic of Croatia has also taken over, and he has reiterated that inaccuracy that only 5% of the Fund will be used from the funds. What's the fact today? On the contrary, 94% of the funds, 94% of the funds are contracted. I am sure in view of the procedure which is very complex and which is followed by the European Commission that these contracts will be fully and fully realised. Furthermore, social dialogue and respect for the collective agreement were also mentioned here. It has been said that the government gave up on the pressure of the union to freeze wages, etc., no, the government has not given up, the government has proposed that we welcome as easily and more readily as possible what awaits us as a result of the global global and financial and economic crisis, the government has proposed to postpone the increase, but has proposed it to its partners and employers' associations that have accepted the proposal and trade unions that have not accepted. And the government respected that fact that the unions simply did not agree to the proposal and will remain with the agreement signed in the collective agreement. Unlike your government, we've already heard this here that we're not repeating too much, but the famous fact that because you didn't honor a collective contract, say school employees, that we had to pay billions in kuna later to cover your irresponsibility with the partners, according to the unions. And it was incorrect as it was said here that only unions began to negotiate when SDP's coalition government came. That's not true. The unions existed before, I'm sorry that my colleague Zgrebec is not here, they also negotiated with Mr. Matesha's government. Therefore, it is, of course, within the scope of possibilities. So you don't have to speak so incorrectly in this House. To mention further capital investments, rural development and the economy or health care. We're going to health care. The budget for healthcare is increasing by 25%. It's 25%. It's only 25%. There is a health reform that will also mean consolidation in that health care. Therefore, accept the fact that we are very responsible in this situation. But speaking of the global financial economic crisis, let's also say one fact that many forget to mention, which is why the Croatian state has not given any kuna to any bank. So we didn't even give the kuna to any bank. Unlike Croatia, all European countries, the United States of America, Japan, and even Switzerland must go to banks in order to consolidate and manage to get out of the crisis they have entered, they must single out hundreds of billions of euros and dollars. Or a more concrete assessment of the world's economic analysts is that it will take four trillion dollars to cover all the dubiosis in the banking system. Four trillions. So it's something that's simply unimaginable, of course, but these are the real consequences of the global financial crisis. In that part, Croatia did not feel the crisis. In that part, which is the generator of the complete crisis and economics. The economic crisis generator is a financial crisis that has hit banks. It has caused the closure of European markets which will, of course, affect our economy. In that part, we can expect certain problems, as it is, for example, already feeling the wood industry. The wood industry is mainly related to exports, unfortunately semi-products or raw materials only and has problems with placing its products in the European Union countries, especially most in Italy and this effect is also felt in jobs. Therefore, we need to be prepared for that part and we need to find a way and the government is finding it along with its partners to help these entrepreneurs. Enough is the fact that the government will single out through this budget, i.e. the Croatian Parliament 5.1 billion kuna to encourage entrepreneurship, retains the level of activity they have been in, and should turn backwards and say that the budgets have been very separate. Well, it wouldn't come from this 128 billion out of nothing. That revenue would not be charged out of nothing. What's he charging from? He doesn't charge himself with debt. He doesn't charge himself with debt. Next, there was talk here and about golf, there was talk of golf course. Since you've already insisted on telling lies about the golf course again, and I must say there won't be any robbery around the golf course, nor is it a law that will legalize the robbery. Why? Because this construction may go up to 25%, as it is intended there exclusively depends on what kind of spatial plan the unit of local self-government will bring, or what detailed plan the unit of local self-government will bring. They will determine whether there will be apartments, whether there will be hotels, how many hotels there will be, how many areas will be of those 25%. So the possibility of building is only on that 25%. But how real construction is going to be, whether it's going to be a building coefficient of 0.3, 0.8 or so on, that depends solely on the unit of local self-government, so on city and municipal councils. And therefore, where there will be golf courses, and the assumption is that there are currently 60 of them in the plans, there will be these units of local self-government, so whether it's SDP or IDS or HDZ environments and so on. These units of local self-government together with their councils, with council members, will be responsible for this space and what and how this space will be built. So, there's no robbery, and in particular, that law doesn't get passed in order to please some of our friends. I'm not going to repeat the story of Struk, the top man who really enjoyed the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22738	Two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22739	Well, actually, here I am going to try a few incorrect allegations. Comrade Matušić, if you didn't know, look at the news on HINA for health care. No longer goes 25% from this budget because Prime Minister Sanader told reporters already this morning that health care is going 1.7 billion less than planned in this budget. So it turns out in the end that we're talking about something here today, we don't really know what we're talking about. If that's not what you're worried about, I'm worried. Secondly, it is incorrect to oppose the Peljesk Bridge, to build the Peljesk Bridge, but to oppose the megalomanic demands and the need to be someone in this country, in this case the prime minister headed by the Government raises a political monument to a lot of others, which is what we oppose. And you're saying there won't be a robbery related to the Golf Act. Comrade Matušić, yesterday we spoke here and you were here, in the end you had no arguments. It's a law that allows its provisions to be robbed because it enables exorcism. Whether it's private property, whether it's state property, whether it's owned by local self-government, and through the law itself, it allows building apartments, hotels, I don't know what not. It's a robbery without the investor being obliged to give no kuna, but a fine fee for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22740	And Mr. Agent Arsen Bauk, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As a colleague, the late colleague of Šprlje, mentioned by Mr Matušić in the context against the Pelješko Bridge and the highway, cannot defend himself, I will correct his incorrect allegations. So, the idea of the Pelješko bridge is an idea that HDZ stole from the mayor Ivan Šprlje, who was on his poster in 2005, had the slogan "Zupan which connects" and which the citizens believed showed the results of the elections, Ivan Šprlje received 19 700 votes, and Frano Matušić 17 800 in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22742	Replications. First, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22743	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, the fact is that surely this budget is brought right at a time when there are a lot of financial crises in the world and normally Croatia itself is in the wheel of it, but the fact is that, too, colleague Matušić, that very budget, this budget will not reduce any material rights. That the budget will not reduce the aid of the socially sensitive categories of citizens, that these budgets will continue to increase pensions, raise salaries, increase fees, child's allowance, sick leave and so on. That's the facts. Now, logically, when we talk about the budget, then we always start evaluating our memories, and then we always like to remember, so did colleague Zgrebec, and I also remember that time that I was in the union, so when she mentioned it so much in 2000, she's trying to say that '99. That's why in 2000 she was the way she was. But you know then you're going to 2003, then it's almost four years of government. So then you have the data says, then the unemployed were 36,000 in 2003. At that time, the biggest unemployment in Croatia was at that time. 120 thousand workers did not receive salaries at the time, and it worked, no matter what the measures were and decreased, but these are the data that stand in all the materials that I am happy to show to colleagues who are interested. 60% of the average salary covered the union basket back then. So it's not the same government that's been in power for the fourth year, it hasn't been honey and milk for four years, so let's not forget our past and try to show the present all negative. I don't think that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22744	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with your colleague. I said in my opening part that the budget is also social because it retains actually all the rights that have all the social categories and actually increases the amounts for them, here you specifically mentioned the salaries, you mentioned the fees. We've already said about wages that it's 6%, but not just 6%, because with the union contract, there's an additional increase for educators of 2%, 2.1%. So it is quite clear that this increase will also be significant on their salaries and will significantly feel. When you talk about the unemployed, and there was in that coalition government that preceded our 2003, there were those who said they would open 200,000 new jobs, how they would reduce unemployment, and yet unemployment grew. We didn't drill into the chest, but we reduced unemployment by 100,000 jobs. This is a concrete piece of statistics which none of the colleagues on the other hand who allegedly advocate social policy and cannot disprove. It is therefore clear that we are running a quality policy that has an understanding for all layers of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22746	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22747	Mr. Matusic, I wanted to replicate a few topics for you. Since the debate on the budget has been debated about everything and everything, but apparently all these topics still have a direct or indirect relationship with the budget. First, the theme of the bridge we talked about this morning. It may be easy from the north of Croatia to talk about how we don't need to go to the south bridge. We're definitely cut off, we're a plane destination and there's no talking about whether we need a bridge or not, who first remembered who didn't. The fact is that 300 million kuna in this year's budget is not enough for the bridge, but of course we're dealing with the situation that's on the ground and that what was mentioned here this morning are Podokin's villages, you can't see, you won't see it for the next two years because the works are being done mainly under the sea. As far as highways are concerned, we need to study environmental protection, not a question or bridge or roads, but for Dubrovnik, highways and bridges are necessary if we want the south of Croatia to be maintained, to make Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik area a destination of quality tourism. That's why I'm gonna mention golf here when it comes to golf. Golf, we want an entire season, we live almost exclusively from tourism. What used to be tennis, it's golf in the world today. Anyone who can't accept that has a problem. I've heard several times today, Mr. Matusic here from fellow Stazic, speak private. Well, we've defined ourselves in the '90s. For the market economy and privateer is something quite normal, is it not without that private capital, and this morning we were spared here that we drove some investors away, and how we would get investors if we didn't create an entrepreneurial atmosphere. Without this law, golf cannot be realized. I have an example to give you. We've determined 310 acres of space plan seven years ago to capture golf and build 10% on it. So Dubrovnik will have 10% construction on Mount Srđ above the city. Until today, this private or more private person, as Mr. Stazic called them, has failed to reach that property because there is no law on how to round up the land. And that's why I think it's interesting this topic this morning was like maybe a way to get some respect, but the fact is that without this, there's no development, there's no golf, there's no quality tourism, there's no season, and there's no confusion in all those who talk about it from the ease of the assembly benches and they don't know what the situation is on the ground, and in that sense I'll continue the debate later when I'm in line. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22748	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, thank you to my colleague Shuica, we're actually thinking the exact same thing about these issues, but I'd like to add a few more facts to the Peles Bridge and golf courses. The Pelješki bridge is also needed because of the fact that Croatia will apply the Schengen regime when it enters the European Union. And we have absolutely positive reactions from Europe that actually encourages that bridge to be built. Why? Because it is impossible for the goods in the Schengen regime to enter such a border and enter the European Union again, it is really impossible. We will even have to look for alternatives by building an extension of the mule in Trpanj in order to drive that part of the traffic via the Trapanj ferry. Furthermore, when I talk about the Peljesk Bridge, then it is necessary to tell the truth that the first one was spoken about in the Croatian Parliament of Mr Luka Bebić in 1998, and HDZ did not, unlike the SDP you said was on posters in 2005. In 1998, in early elections for the county, HDZ carried this as its project. 1998. So remember that data. And second, 2005. The SDP, along with its coalition partners, lost to the list carried by Frano Matušić as you said, and then look at some data. It'll be clearer to you, you'll see how much support anyone has from the voters. And the third with the stuff when we talk about golf, golf courses. Of course there is no quality development of tourism without quality content and we absolutely need to ask ourselves why there are 365 golf courses in one Ireland. Why there are over 200 playgrounds in one Portugal. Well, of course golf courses extend the season. Golfers come and out of season, they don't care if it rains, they come simply throughout the season, they care that there's this content, and as it's said, it's the potential of 67 million people who are dealing with golf today, and certainly even more today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22750	Next replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is colleague Matušić you have rightly noticed that in this budget is also one of the essential items of continuing the construction of highways and which is absolutely good and quality. In fact, the SDP was struggling as soon as it came down from power to stop building highways. Let's say the Zagreb-Sisak highway, where it was in every way possible to have strong influence in Zagreb County and normally in the town of Velika Gorica tried to block the development of spatial plans, so that the highway would not be built. Interesting. And why is that? Because there was no Mr. Cacic in this government whose companies not directly got a job on the highway, but as a subcontractor they were everywhere. If you remember, it's about the companies "Conning" where Mr. Cacic is not exactly the owner directly, but he is, in the end, the majority owner. But it's a little more complicated, so we won't be discussing it today. It's got time. Furthermore, Mr Pancic is incredibly showing all the time of the price and the highway during HDZ. A month ago, we got everybody on the bench, by the stock of all the highways built, so I've been thinking since the beginning of the '90s. over here. Interesting. There were shares for coalition authorities that were significantly more expensive. On average, a mildly equal price, but let's just remember the wages were less, the fuel cheaper, so I'm actually surprised by the whole story by the system, you keep the thief alive. Furthermore, there was also a great surprise, why is the price more expensive with us than there? So who introduced 60 lips twice at the fuel price? According to Croatia's highway today, Croatian roads are being financed from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22752	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22753	Well, I agree with you fellow Markovanovic that after he lost his hair in 2003, he tried to show all the powers to the Croatian public, that something in the construction of the highway was wrong, so they were both barren and miserable attempts to try to say that prices are much, much more than they were in their time. However, the facts have disproved them. And the fact is that building highways is among the cheapest in Europe. She also denied it. That's what I think is best known to those who use these highways as much as those highways. And the fact is, many performers couldn't get a job before, if subcontractors and cooperatives weren't exactly companies since then, Minister Cacic. It also showed conflict interest, where one of the few officials who was specifically proven to be interested in the issue. I mean, it's a very clear and reasonable position not to mention the cases where he was taking these same companies took money from the pensioners' home in Dubrovnik, so they didn't make it, so they also took it from the school in Zadar, so they didn't make it, and they took the full amount, and they made one fifth of what they were obliged to do. And to no one, ate the donkey wolf. I think it's clear to everyone what happened here. And now, of course, if you're not in power, then you should give up. It's supposed to try to obstruct. So we had obstructions around Velika Gorica, so we have obstructions in all other places, but I say we work exclusively for the benefit of the citizens and how we're going to get the highway to Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22754	Next replica, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22755	Thank you very much. So I'm going to answer Matusic about the bridge in my debate, but I invite him to spend his life with me on a road of death called the Podravska highway, on which neither the impact hole nor the rapid road was buried, let alone a quick road was made. But I'm going to say something about European funds right now. You see there you are constantly claiming to be 94% used. So ISPA was signed in 2004 and ratified in the Croatian Parliament. From 2004 until today, it has not been realised even 20%, because the track is not being restored, and for the device in Karlovac it is not even the first shovel. The town of Koprivnica nominated a wastewater treatment plant project for ISPA in 2004. The political discretion of the wastewater treatment device did not enter the ISPA project, but entered Karlovac. For three years, ISPA was to be prepared and the contest was to be called. In the meantime, we built a device, that device works and produces clean water. And we've solved the matter of mud. We did it all. By contrast, the ISPA fund has not yet been used in Karlovac, but is just waiting to be completed in two years. If it was Koprivnica in ISPA and we had it now, we could use the IPA already today, not that we're just waiting for the IPA. Secondly, when the decision on European funds in Croatia was decentralised, it waited one year for the signing of the contract of what was evaluated and approved in Brussels. So the contracts came... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22756	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22757	Thank you. Well, my colleague Mršić needs first of all to know how the funds work, then you should know that the entire control of everything is carried out by the European Commission. Full control. You're not going to say that the European Commission has discriminated against you. You don't want to say that. The other thing when you're talking about roads, then you should just say in this year that it's for... The improvement of the road between Koprivnica and Ludbreg was agreed on by 68 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just this year. I agree with you that this is a need. That'll come in handy. But give some understanding and for projects outside of your town of Koprivnica I love and appreciate your work, etc. but have an understanding for the whole of Croatia not only for your partial interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22758	Next replica, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22759	Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Matusic, you have actually said everything you should have said about building a bridge, or the need to build the Pelje Bridge. But you dropped something, my colleague, I believe I'll remind you because we were in the campaign together last year, so you'll remember that in fact some others were saying a year ago that there's nothing from the continued construction of the highway, and here I am seeing my eyes, and I'm traveling down every week, in 10 days that stock will open up. Also, some said in the promotion that since the bridge opened, it has been opened several times solely because of the promotion, that there is nothing, that it will not be built, that it is only lies, that we do not have the consent of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. Actually, something's happening right now, something else is happening. Suddenly, the same ones who said what I said earlier, today, without any problems, they come out that they don't mind building that bridge and that they actually support it in the best way possible. I'd just like to supplement one, I think that's quite enough, and that's that either some forget here, or act like... It's either one thing or another. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22760	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matković is exactly... that individuals obviously forget what they were saying, so they said there was nothing from the auto-road sequel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But my colleague said before that there was nothing general about the highway because they were saying then that they were going to plant mushrooms in the Saint-Rock tunnel. That's what they said. That's what they said. [[Aggression: Champions.]] The champions will be built in the Saint-Rock tunnel. That's what they said. So what's the confusion in their heads is enough to tell us that today some of them say that we're introducing a 1% deficit and that's terrible, and others as a colleague of Zgrebec as we could have been more than 3%. Why not? As is the recommendation of the European Union. So obviously they don't know what they're saying or what they're thinking or how to connect things into one whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22762	Next replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22763	Well, I was thinking something about the wood and metal industry that not only lost the market, but now, especially in Slavonia, jobs are being closed since entrepreneurs are losing their jobs both on the domestic and on the world market, and in any case, it doesn't contribute to this budget either, nor to this government. But I'm going back to this Peljeka bridge that nobody is really against any mile of highway. About the price we can talk about how much it was before, how much it is now... /The speaker has been turned off./...it primarily a matter of culture, but bridges where these works are visible. Although on this Peljesk bridge, invisible works have been going on for two years, and money is being spent on these invisible works. He would also appeal because here he will soon end the TV broadcast and then probably won't have to return to King Tomislav not only in 2000 or in 1990, 1993 or 1995 but he could also ask the time when workers had minimum wages from 1500 kuna to 1800 how much Mr. Kunst's head had paid and how he fought with that salary for labour rights. ... It's all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I'd just like to ask you for some culture though, wouldn't I? On the other hand, perhaps the state in Croatia and on the social and sustainable and development budget is just the information read in the media today that it will decrease by nearly two billion investment in health. And finally, I believe that this statement of the Bishop's Conference, which speaks not only of bribery and corruption in the Croatian state, in the Croatian government, but also in the Croatian branches of the economy, says enough that just the biggest corruption is in construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22764	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22765	Thank you. Well, it's really hard to replicate on some of the allegations, but here's what we're going to try to do. First of all, the Peljek Bridge is very visible. You should go downstairs and see the specifics. So there are concrete works, and it's my fault that you, I'm wrong not to follow them, but I'm glad you just said you weren't against it because you had a whole other policy before the election and long before the election not to speak, not to list everything that's happened in the last few years. Same about the highway. We've already told you about the price. We can't speculate here. There are accurate data that indicate that it is not true what your colleague Pancic has repeatedly repeated about the price of the highway. That's just not true. It's not standing. Namely, it wasn't twice as cheap a price at a time when the coalition government was doing it than it was today. That's not true, it doesn't stand. Some shares were even more expensive than today's most expensive shares. Second, prices are obtained in a public tender very transparently and are determined by the market. If we're for the market, if we're for the public tender, if we're not for what you're proposing a direct deal under the bench like your minister did back then. That's it. And as for the wood industry, the incentives grew. They're growing up. Here's 2007. 45.6 million, 2008. 90 million kuna. So incentives grow from year to year. The second thing is how these industries deal with the world market and with competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22766	And the last replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Matusic, you have encouraged me to mention three bridges very briefly with your debate. You mentioned one to yourself very, actually your Dubrovnik way, the nice way when you said the Bridge of Franjo Tuđman and today, so on the anniversary of the death of the late president we remember the courage of this man's vision which at the time when one part of Croatia was occupied he built another bridge or opened works on that second bridge and it was mentioned exactly the Holy Rock Tunnel which was in the right sense the word bridge between northern and southern Croatia. What do I mean by that? So regardless of what the situation is and how much it was, I don't know either the environment or the unfavourable or the kind we don't want, and so on it's being built, built and done. So you don't have to kill that one optimism and faith in it and with this one, and in fact, with these two bridges so Bridge Franjo Tudjman, the Bridge of the Holy Rock I would mention this third, that's the Bridge of Pelješac. So which one you mentioned here certainly means what it means, especially for me I would call for all of Croatia and not only for Croatia but for the whole area in general and for all those who communicate and go south wherever they go and where they intend to come from? In the context of these bridges, I would also mention that third bridge, which is that bridge golfing or tourism, which is, in the right sense, a bridge between Croatia, a beautiful, southern Croatia, so at a time when golfers cannot play golf in Europe and when, in fact, with the construction and the existing, I don't know, the airports that we have and in that space can find their place, of course, both Herzegovina and Medjugorje and so on. Therefore, with one such activity one can very much revive one communication, continuous communication and the extension of what you have shown in the Dubrovnik tourist season. I'm interested in your attitude regarding this last one, in terms of what it really means for Dubrovnik, for one big Dubrovnik and on the world map to the tourist big and biggest pearl one, one such possibility and that there are all perspectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22768	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22769	So you're absolutely right, colleague Bagarić, when you point out the importance of overall economic development and the importance of these projects in this development. Namely, first the Peljesac Bridge. According to a study done from a serious study conducted by experts and presented in our county a few years ago, it is clear that the bridge will develop a good part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Together with the Croatian south, it will absolutely cover and develop a good part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially this gig that is gravitating from Mostar and, of course, down to Neum. Thus, it is certain that the benefits of doing so will be far more public than it seems. On the other hand, what does golf mean? Well, the Mayor of Dubrovnik here has already made it clear and unequivocally clear that it means a lot for the development of top tourism, because it is one of the contents that suggests that Dubrovnik as an elite world destination would have truly developed this top tourism. Some call it elite, but I would say tourism that has high quality content and in that sense simply that value is incomparable to the present state. Because golfers should actually have a few terrains in that area. One is also foreseen in the Konavlas. One is intended of course on Srđa. That's gonna be the biggest one. And one is also foreseen on the Rudins, so in the Dubrovnik coast of Dol, and it will certainly mean a whole new quality of the destination of the Croatian South, primarily Dubrovnik, but then along with it and the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Of course, there comes new employment in mind. There is new activity and transport and every other infrastructure and I think that this will indeed have a significant impact on the quality of tourism, but also on the quality of life of Croatian citizens themselves in southern Croatia. Because they will also be users of these same services and they will benefit greatly from it. So it's not about legalizing a robbery like that trying to convince us individuals, it's about ensuring development, ensuring the quality and quality of tourism and the quality of life of something that others have long known. So they didn't legalize the robbery in Italy by building golf courses in Portugal, Spain, hundreds and hundreds of golf courses.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22770	Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22771	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The fact is that today we have a document that is being passed under difficult conditions, the conditions of the global financial crisis. In the beginning, it is also necessary to present several macro-economic indicators that clearly show the conditions in which this budget is to be adopted. Thus, in the first half of this year, it marked a drop in economic activity with the same rise in consumer price inflation that is conditioned by foreign and domestic inflation pressures. This is largely due to direct and indirect effects of the purchase of crude oil, but also food raw materials, and metal on the world market. The annual growth in gross domestic product in the first half of this year was 3.8%, which is noticeably lower than the growth recorded throughout the year when this increase was 5.6%. Positive labour market trends continued during the second quarter of the second year, thus continuing to reduce unemployment and increase employment. Thus, at the end of June, 21 and a half thousand were recorded, or 10.9% less unemployed than at the end of June last year. While the countries of the European Union predict stagnation or even negative growth in 2009 I would point to an example of Ireland of -1.6% and Estonia -1.3%. In Croatia, forecasts of economic growth range at 2%. These projections, of course, take into account the impact of the global financial crisis. In my debate, I will look briefly at the incentive programmes aimed at the development of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. Thus, in 2009 investments in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, then increasing the competitiveness of industry, promoting production, then entrepreneurship infrastructure are planned to amount to 5.1 billion kuna, which accounts for 4.3% of total budget spending. Over the past two years, it has been uprooted to encourage entrepreneurship from the budget that 11.2 billion kuna has been allocated, and the continued allocations over the previous years have led the state directly to encourage and strengthen the entrepreneurship sector to be more ready for the period of possible higher growth. As I come from Rijeka, I would especially like to look at the increase in capital aid within the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for the construction of the southern roundabout of Rijeka from 75 million kuna in 2008 to 108 and a half million kuna in 2009, which is scheduled to complete construction by summer 2009. I would also like to stress that in 2009 the planned funds amounting to €52 million are planned for the Clinical Hospital Center in Rijeka, €52 million, €72 million, which is actually the largest amount of investment compared to other institutions of that kind in Croatia. These investments will certainly increase the quality of health services to all citizens of Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, as well as to the citizens of neighbouring counties. Finally, it is also important to stress that under crisis conditions, the government is showing a marked social sensitivity, so the allocations to help socially sensitive populations increase by 182 million kuna from 2.7 billion in 2008 to 2.9 billion in 2009. I would like to conclude my debate with this and, in fact, on the basis of all of this, I would like to emphasise that I fully support the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with projections of the State budget for 2010 and 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22772	Thank you very much. We have one application for a replica, a distinguished colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to react since my colleague Buterin in her debate stressed that this government has advocated the well-being of the river economy as best seen on May 3rd whose books of orders are empty while at the same time the book of orders in Brodosplit or Uljanik is full. Well of course there's a little lie, a big lie and statistics, so when the figures are to say that the word KBC for next year gets the most from the others can mean a lot, but also very little. Namely, the means envisaged do not guarantee at all the possibility that the Medical Hospital in Rijeka may experience a new University Hospital before 2020 and the funds intended for medical laboratory equipment do not provide the possibility to equip new dialysis which is at the end of the construction work, and with these means there is no possibility that the next year the dialysis equipment will be equipped to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22774	Replication response, distinguished colleague Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22775	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic, for the replica, when it comes to May 3rd, I here responsibly argues that the government is making a great deal of last efforts to contract, to contract four ships to fill the order book on May 3rd. However, I would really like to point out here that this government actually has references behind it. The reference to this government is Victor Lenac. If this government hadn't gone to great lengths to solve the problem in Viktor Lenc, we'd have 1100 people on the street today and Italians running that shipyard for us. Mr Jovanovic, when you talk about KBC, it is the fact that this government invests 52 million kunas in KBC Rijeka next year and that it is actually the largest investment in the institutions of that kind in Croatia. It's an indisputable fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22776	Thank you very much. It's time to welcome fellow MP Nadica Jelash, here's your co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22777	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. If the budget is a fundamental instrument for achieving government policy or coalition in power, and it certainly is, then for the 2009 budget that we now have in front of us, it cannot really say that it has been adopted on the basis of a thought-out strategy, but is based on a policy that is short-sighted and changes from day to day from situation to situation. Here, the prime minister himself said the draft budget will be prepared by amendments to both the government and individual committees, all in order to reduce the budget deficit. We heard, it's already reduced today and the health budget is planned and health reform is planned. So we didn't get one whole draft budget, but half a product, which is at least unserious, since it's about the most important state document and the more that it's so late in its adoption. About a month ago, the prime minister was very determined to advise economists in Opatija, saying the budget would be balanced, the deficit would be cut to zero, as already one percent of the deficit would mean 2.9, 2.9 billion kuna of the new debt. And the question is, where do you put yourself in charge and under what conditions? At that time, there was also talk of cutting costs, saving, and delaying wages, and not only in state services and in budget users, but also in local authorities and all the way to the economy. And then it looked, it realized, it landed, and suddenly it became prone to social dialogue. And after that, everything changed. The first thing we talked about was tightening the belt, and now the belt's going down, hole in the hole. Just so they don't drop their pants. Neither the frozen salaries nor the budget is balanced, the estimated deficit is 4.3 billion kuna, and unpredicted with included guarantees from shipyards and not identified by health system costs, could reach a double amount, and in the absence of money, both domestic and foreign will indeed be difficult to finance. In fact, capital is becoming the most valuable commodity, since it has more and less, its price is increasing, it is the law of supply and demand. The Croatian National Bank has already provided additional liquidity to business banks in December by reducing the reserve in December, and is also ready to repeat in the first quarter of 2009, all with the aim of enabling the state to borrow on the domestic market to refinance its commitments. In this situation, the Croatian National Bank has proved to be the strongest factor in the country's financial security and the crisis would have been far more devastating if it had not done its job well, and it should be made clear here. Of course, the state will use its debt to suck up the liquidity of banks, leaving less resources to the corporate sector, i.e. The economy. As a result, part of the company will fail, and part will be saved by cutting costs in a way that will fire workers. And the state will only help those they want. Only in the principle of political clientism, and thus in a way to strengthen your power, as well as the dependence of customers on yourself, it is a well-known model. Share and rule. And what about Croatian citizens who should be the most important in all of this? Because of them, there is also a state for them, and most importantly, Croatian citizens are employers of the current government, they signed a contract in the elections to work with this government as a state management, so what will the government do for the standard of its citizens. With lower economic growth announced and a higher inflation rate, it will be realistic to buy less and less. Food has raised 50% in the last two, three years. Since the beginning of next year, 20% of gas is accumulated, and the additional difficult situation is that meteorologists predict that this winter will be the coldest in the last 8 years. So nature doesn't tend to us either. And citizens, as well as the state, are most afraid of collecting credit, why? Because they're over-indebted. Each on average owes the banks 27 thousand kuna or 375 euros. The debt doubled compared to 2004 when every citizen was burdened with slightly less than 2,000 euros. Minus on current accounts and payments to wars are the biggest allies to Croatian citizens. Only the state budget will profit from inflation. The better the citizens, the better the state. Although economic growth is planned at 2%. And that's too optimistic. The state is counting on the growth of tax revenues of as much as 3.4%, which is higher inflation, which is higher VAT revenues than VAT, as the most significant revenue of the state budget, plans to raise more than 44 billion kuna in 2009, with an increase of as much as 3.9%, according to revenues made in 2008. Of course, expectations are also high from profit taxes as well as from excise duties. On the other hand, for income tax revenues, it is estimated to be less than this year. We're afraid to ask ourselves, are such assessments, with all the rest, calculated and mass layoffs? In view of the fact that income tax is primarily alimony of the income of local self-government units, we are also wondering that with such reduced revenues, municipalities and cities will function, that they will fulfil their tasks towards citizens, which is more than they can count on with more significant state-level aid, as the share of decentralised funds decreases from year to year, the support of the economy and agriculture decreases, the smaller funds are being placed through HABOR and the Regional Development Fund. To conclude, this budget should be appropriate to the recent situation. We should have built-in crisis fuses. However, such fuses definitely do not exist. No sign of savings, no rationalization of the state administration, not giving up for this time of completely inappropriate investment. The so-called Peljek Bridge is, the prime minister said, a matter of Croatian pride. Yeah, we'll be proud and hungry. To be clear, I have nothing against pride but at the right moment and this is not the moment. This is the moment for the responsible spending of the budget money created by Croatian citizens and given to government management. So the state doesn't want to give up anything and it should really start by itself. And already there are financial problems, he's late for payments and salaries, even though December is the highest month when it comes to charging the state register. What is yet to happen in January and February, which are the proverbially weakest months? And right from the savings could protect the standard of citizens, provide incentives to the economy, secure funds for HABOR. So, there are alternatives to the deficit, and that is a savings for which there is obviously no political will, unfortunately, no knowledge. But it doesn't matter. It's important to know how to find the defendant, from the global crisis to the irresponsible unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22778	Thank you very much. We have five applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22779	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I'm afraid five applications will be too little to fix what my colleague Jelash said. First of all, I'm correcting my colleague Jelesh's allegations that we didn't get a full budget. We got a full budget according to the Budget Act. Although some wanted to, they suggested that the ministry and the government go with temporary funding for three months with a provisional budget I think a good job was done, a brave job and that a whole document for 2009, a document which can, of course, be changed through rebalancing and adapt to situations. What I'm trying to say is, it's not a good idea to scare citizens with all kinds of crowds because some of them here on the other side were also afraid of oil, predicting that oil would go to 200 bucks. Here, we see what happens today with the oil prices they spend and our citizens among other things. I think that we should invite and invite our citizens here to buy and spend Croatian products, Croatian food, in such a way best help all employees in Croatia and the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22780	Thank you. Next application for correction of the quote, distinguished counterpart Frano Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm going to say a few words or a correction to Mrs. Jelash's incorrect quote. As my colleague said, there's been a lot of things, but I'll just say a few. You mention rationalization, mention budget imbalance, mention personal income. Well, honourable MPs, you and your SDP party have been warming up and the union of these past days that they shouldn't step down from the salary growth, that they should stick to the contracts they signed with the government while there's no such social sensitivity as you pretend to be wondering about those people, and I have to fire 100 people at the same time, and I wonder how and how the state budget will be filled if the economy and the economy don't work. How are you going to raise the wages to these people, how are you going to get your personal income tomorrow if the economy doesn't work and here it's said that, in the industry or in the wood industry, more than 4,000 people have been fired because of the recession and globalisation that has hit us, while at the same time you're pushing for pay increases. So I'm asking you in which way you're going to fill the budget, where you care about these other people, and you've only done this for political reasons, you haven't done it because you think you've just done it like you did on Facebook and on all these portals, you're just doing... to make sure the citizens get their hands on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's your only policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22782	You've picked up a license plate. We have those other yellow ones that are for replicas so we can give opportunity and answers. Further to correcting the quote, I saw a plate of distinguished colleagues of Dubravka Shuice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22783	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I don't feel comfortable correcting incorrect allegations but saying that we would be proud and hungry I couldn't resist correcting you. Well, even at the time of the fiercest war, no one in this war-torn area was hungry. Let's say that we're going to be hungry for only 300 million that are scheduled for this year in the state budget, and I even had the idea that I had an amendment that I'm looking for an increase for the Pelesian bridge, but here I am going to give up solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22784	Thank you very much. Further to correct the quote, distinguished colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22785	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague. I'm really going to respond to this quote of yours, "We're going to be proud and hungry." I come to you from Sisak-Moslavina County, which was badly injured in the war and we've always been proud of the defender of our country but we haven't been hungry in the fiercest battles. And it bothers me when you send a message to the Croatian people and to all Croatian citizens. I'll tell you why. Because I think that the detachment for both the Peljek Bridge and the Sisak-Zagreb highway which the government had and we had the Minister of Sisak then easily rejected in power from the building plan that these were not in vain projects. And I'll tell you why. We won't even be hungry because right now, social benefits, salary increases in this budget, social benefits and pensioners by 4.1%), for all social categories of society, for maternity benefits, for childcare benefits, for the unemployed are just growing in this year's budget for 2009 and I would say from there I would say some of your thinking and world view that we will be both proud and hungry and thus bring Croatian citizens into a dilemma that they will not have for bread tomorrow, please don't use such political flossules.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22786	Thank you. Furthermore, the latest application for corrections to the alleged esteemed colleague Kreso Filipovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22787	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd just like to correct one incorrect quote from my colleague Jelash, and it's about how he pays in the state administration late, or that the state administration doesn't get paid in time. I think that's the way it is, it's already been going on for a few days and through the media and through discussions on committees paying civil servants late, that's not true. And I'm going to remind my colleague, she probably worked as well in the state administration system, that in the years between 2000 and 2003 the salaries were paid from 15th to 20th, and no one thought to say that the salaries were late. I think it's incorrect to say he's paying in the state administration late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22788	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22789	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the Government, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Just before, a respected representative of counterpart Zubovic asked what they were or what the forecasts of Jurcic were about a year ago on economic growth. I could only say that we didn't predict, but that we planned economic growth from 7% to 9%. For this economic growth from 7% to 9%, we've had in mind that we've been taking into account the market that we've been marketing for the past 15 years, 16 years unreasonablely, uncritically, uncritically left to the importers. Today or this year, Croatia will introduce about $30 billion of goods. Of these goods, Croatia can produce probably around 15, 16, 17 billion and our idea was to make a policy on how to take that part of the domestic market that we have left to foreigners for a little reckless politics in the past. It is not necessary to go to Sweden or Germany or England, Croatia has become part of the global market and this is not about opposing or prohibiting imports or substitutions of imports. We simply want to take part of the world market that is closest to us, that is our Croatian market. For this we planned and developed an industrial policy where we visited over 300 companies in different branches to ask them, in various activities to ask them what is their obstacle to increasing domestic production, their production and our goal this year was to increase their production by 20%. Of course, some of them can't increase production at all, and some of them could have increased by 30, 40, 50%. And this is an approach to industrial or sectoral policies to see what resources we have, what resources can we use? What are the obstacles to, to exploiting these resources and making instruments to remove these obstacles? In addition, all these activities take place in certain parts of Croatia and need to create infrastructure for both industry and life in those parts of Croatia. It was the subject of regional policy. The current government has the Ministry of Regional Policy but does not yet have a policy of regional development in as it should be. The third thing is to increase efficiency is to protect and develop competition policies. We're a little late here, and we didn't do it either. And then eventually, the financial policy comes to terms with how to finance all these policies. And today when we talk about the budget we can argue a lot, but actually the budget is based on these policies; industrial, regional, social and competition policies. The budget is the most important instrument of economic policy. We see this through this debate here, but the budget also gives us the best information on the efficiency of economic policy. The future side of the budget shows what an effective economic policy was during the previous period and... how effectively or well we planned our budget in previous years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If current revenues can settle current obligations and if we have little left for development projects, then we can say that economic policy is, and the budget itself as part of the economic policy that they were good, that they were well-designed. However, if that is not the case, then we cannot give a confirmed answer that we have been leading an effective economic policy for the last time, and that is why policy needs to be changed and the budget needs to be changed. The expenditure side of the budget shows or indicates what direction will economic policy be in the next period? Obviously, according to me, the direction so far has not been good because it has resulted in the stagnation of citizens' standards. Even before this global, financial and economic crisis has occurred, the real salary of Croatian citizens has not been increased in the first 10 months of this year. Real growth is zero. Industrial production growth as the basis of production in every society and in Croatia stagnates so that the first 10 months of this year growth is about 2.5%. Last year he was 6.6% at the same time. With much more worrying 3rd and 10th months being zero growth, and the 5th and 8th month was a negative growth, so as far as the growth of the gross domestic product was concerned by colleague Vesna has stagnated to 3.8% this year in the first term, I think the 3rd and 4th quarter will be even worse, so we're going to face this situation. In addition, there has been a deterioration in the situation in the foreign trade balance. We made the first nine months of 13 billion dollars this year, and that's the kind of deficit we made for last year. In the past, a year ago there were 11 billion and there were 9 billion and so on. It's just a sign that we're spending more and more quickly than we're making. And that all resulted in high external debt. Unfortunately, these are the facts facing the state of Croatia and these are facts that suggest that this and that this crisis could not go much further. Maybe another year, maybe two, and only this global financial crisis has dealt with us a little earlier. Likewise, setting the target of a zero deficit or a balanced budget in the grey economic policy of public finances can be correct in a situation where the development of the economy is satisfactory, when it is a satisfactory standard for citizens, when balanced relations with abroad, when internal and external debt is stabilised. And since such a situation is not in Croatia, a question is raised which instruments is at the disposal of the Government to change it? 10 or 14 years ago, we gave up our course as a strong instrument of economic policy, a small country, a small open country. We did not replace this instrument with other policies, and that policy that would replace it should have been industrial policy. We don't have it today either so unfortunately or perhaps fortunately that we have another instrument remains the instrument of budget deficit in the existing situation. At first glance, it's a little paradoxical, but unfortunately it's either that or maybe lucky. The deficit does not arise in the Ministry of Finance or in the budget. The deficit is due to the structure and level of economic development on the revenue side of the budget, as well as the structure and heat of public spending on the other side of the budget. Now our existing structure and the development of the economy and the size of the public consumption structures generates a deficit and it cannot be solved directly in the budget here what we are talking about today. To reverse the situation, we must change the structure of the economy, and we must also reorganise, change the structure of the production of public services. And these reforms, these changes cannot be carried out either by the private sector or by foreign investments because it is neither their task. This needs to be done by the state. This should be done by the Government and these reforms should be financed. It's often said that the goal of the budget deficit is zero and it's theoretically in ideal situations like that. But even in developed countries today in the world, you can't find a budget deficit of zero, not until there's been a crisis. So that developed countries, reasonable countries, use those budget deficits to develop when possible, and when the crisis comes, then use the budget deficit to take over the cost of the crisis on themselves to preserve their citizens and their economies when it comes out of the crisis so that they can continue to work and live in unchanged circumstances. It was done by Japan ten years ago. America and England that represent the most this neoliberalistic attitude will have a budget deficit. America next year, 10%. The England that's up until yesterday has zero will now have about 4.5%. I know the budget deficit costs, and I know he has his own expenses. But in the selection of the budget deficit, we need to calculate as much as it will cost us if we do not implement this restructuring of society and the economy or public services. The price paid by Croatian society will be much higher than the cost to be paid for the budget deficit that should change the structure of the economy. And finally, regardless of my budget deficit or not, we're going to have a budget deficit in this situation. And it's better to plan and keep it under control than not to plan and lose control of it, and in that case it will increase even more and we will have an even greater cost of this budget deficit. As far as funding is concerned, let us not forget that Croatia still has such monetary sovereignty and that, in the substantially modified conditions that have arisen, the same consideration should be given to the changed monetary policy, i.e. we will not be able to resolve this situation only through public finances and through the budget, but only through cooperation between public finances and monetary authorities. And finally, if we make it, there will be co-operation and coordination between public finances, monetary finances and economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22790	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP, we have a report of correction of the allegations. Dear fellow MP Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22791	Mr. Vice President, I will have to use the correction of the incorrect quote exactly as four years ago because I think the theory of funding development through the budget deficit is not acceptable in the case of the Republic of Croatia. It was finally said here during today's debate by your colleagues. But what's important is those economies that are able to achieve high added value because they exist and have high technologies can afford such adventures. Those economies that do not have such characteristics will use conservative policies to minimise the deficit of the state budget and that is what this government is doing and therefore I think that the ultimate theory of financing development through the deficit of the state budget is unacceptable. The existing state budget is issued enough to offer sufficient opportunities through quality projects, projects that can generate new added value and ensure the necessary economic growth rates. I am sorry, colleague Jurcic, but for the second time, I had to make a correction to the incorrect assumption that such false concepts, unacceptable concepts and publicly declared inappropriate in the case of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22792	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we also have an application for replication. Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jurcic, I think it was terribly important that you warned two things today. Firstly, Croatia is in the import problem, because as far as I know more than 70% of VAT is collected on customs and if the state knew or wanted to help the Croatian economy win at least 50% of the domestic market that we lost in the meantime, it would be about a chance to place around 15 billion new value goods or services. We continue to remain on the concept of imports, so we imported financial and not economic crisis. I also agree with you that the expenditure side of the budget is clear and is visible. However, this revenue has remained in the fog, so it is difficult to specifically explain which encouraging measures they could return at least 50% of the domestic market to the Croatian economy with the help of the state. And it seems to me that we are one of the few members of the European Union or then a candidate for membership in the European Union who is trying to recover the Croatian economy by reducing the purchasing power of the population by encouraging savings instead of buying to benefit from domestic production. And calling for conservative methods and those that advocate or claim that the deficit of the state could be managed or directed by the economy can only be served by them if they have indeed created conservative finances in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22794	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22795	Thank you very much. Well, I would add that as far as Mr. Lesar and his discussion of imports are concerned. Economic policy should not only look at imports, but should look at both imports and exports, so it looks at the balance sheet of external trade. Our imports are growing much faster than exports. This year, imports grow 13.14% and exports grow 7%. And now, what's important for these exports is that we reduce the exports of products that have built-in high-tech in them. Because our products are becoming simpler and technological products are becoming less and less exportable to those that we used to work. And this is the result of economic policy, and economic policy is run by the state, not the private sector, not the private sector. It is therefore important that the state has an industrial policy as a technological policy and that the foundations of this technology policy can only be financed by the state, not by a private person. And when there aren't enough funds because it hasn't been developed, then it uses the budget deficit to raise the technological development of its industries either horizontally or vertically, and that's the problem. It is not a problem with the Ministry of Finance, but the problem is that the finance minister does not get good demands for good projects. And in a country that is not developed as Croatia, it has no money from the current surplus to finance it. It must invest a deficit that will raise production, income and, when taxing that income, then cover that deficit in the next period. And so all the countries of America, England, France, Germany were developing in the situation in which we are today. That's what economic history and theory say.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22796	Thank you, Professor. He applied for the debate further, and first on behalf of the finance minister, Mr. Ivan Schuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First, it is not good that here when taxes are presented some strange data and data that do not stand because 70% of VAT is not charged at the border because the law is clearly defined when VAT is committed, which is at the moment or final customer or finally delivered service, therefore it is purely for the public and for the record because it is not good, if it were 70% VAT on imports, then the Croatian budget would look quite different and far more powerful. And as for the deficit, I was practically explaining the 2 previous budgets for 2007 and 2008, talking about the primary surplus, and the primary surplus is when we rule out the deficit cost. So when we rule out interest costs on the spending side, then you come up with a primary surplus. And today, when I was speaking in the opening part of the budget, I was just stressing how much that deficit costs and can be at certain times when borrowing and capital is not expensive to talk about how the deficit can be used for certain development projects and so on, but as a government, we have decided on fiscal adjustment, that is to reduce deficits and our plan is to practically have a balanced state budget in 2010. But take if today is a deficit of about 5% or 3%, that would be about 15 billion kuna, and I'm asking you all a question of where you could be in debt, and also if you were in debt, take at an average interest rate of about 8% to 15 billion, that would cost you a billion and 200 million a year, so count on what economic activity that would be financed from that deficit, which could also cost you that billion 200 million dollars and achieve all that together. So today there are some very different conditions, some much richer ones who have the opportunity to play a little with interest rates because they have a very financial market, can afford such things, but Croatia certainly does not. At this point with this price of capital, with the inability to be in charge on the domestic foreign market, therefore surely small deficit policy in the government is the only correct policy, and I say VAT is unfortunately not collected at the border, but at moments of final delivery of goods and services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22798	Thank you, Minister. Correction of the quote, esteemed colleague Ljubo Jurčić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22799	So I'm correcting an incorrect quote. The minister said there are different conditions today. Maybe technically different conditions, but actually different conditions aren't. If you can go with the deficit 3.4.5%, it's not a problem, if you invest well, so you have the rate of economic growth equal to or 1.2.3% less. So I say, it's not the deficit problem, it's the problem on the other side, and the budget deficit can also help fix the other side if it's used properly. So the conditions aren't different, the conditions are always the same. It is important that the growth rate of the economy is higher than the deficit rate and that the deficit be invested directly or indirectly in that growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22800	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of a distinguished colleague of Andrija Hebrang's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22801	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This year's budget is made in slightly different conditions than we have been used to for the past 4.5 years, which may make the debate a little more tense and a little sharper than usual, but the conditions that make this budget a global cause. Although some will disagree, and they will say that this is the result of our structural failures, our slow dynamics within our structural solutions, yet I think this is a typical example of the reflection of a cataclysm that has begun, which has affected the whole world and is already killing the first victims in the form of bankruptcy of certain countries, in the form of an IMF tutoring over some countries, as we know for example neighbouring Hungary, as a result of the disruption of large companies, Sony fires 8% of employees, the Opel giant factory has declared bankruptcy and so on. What happened and why this budget is like that, we don't know. Who caused this cataclysm and why, we don't know. They say it's an accident. Did banks accidentally cross all their business boundaries and give mortgages that can't be returned? Did the 50-dollar oil happen to be a barrel, now it's back to 50, say it's going to go to 25? I don't believe it myself, and the answer is likely 10 or 15 years from now, obviously it's high bills that will fill someone's pockets, but unfortunately our budget won't. Conscious of this, our government has approached this budget based on everything it has done for the past 5 years, and therefore we can proudly say that Croatia is less furry with this economic global crisis than many other countries. What did the government do? A whole series of things, I would just say here what's most important, which is the corrections on the fiscal management plan that are here, in 5 years from the high budget deficit of 6.3% came to 2.3% this year, and I believe that with the government's amendments soon this budget for the next year we're discussing will have a budget deficit below 1%. Why does it matter? That's clear to everyone. It is important because now the government's borrowing would eat the financial capital that needs the economy and, of course, refuse interest to repay such debt in the wrong direction. So I think that this budget is balanced, that it's within the possible global movements that I've described and that it can be developmental, which is because I'm going to argue it, and it can be social, and it's also because I'm going to try to explain it. Why the developmental? Because he kept the incentives in those branches of the economy that could remain and survive in times of crisis. There are therefore different opinions, some will not agree that infrastructure facilities should be continued. The construction of such facilities is driven by the entire economy, not only by direct employment of the construction and industries but also by the result of an infrastructure facility which is increased flow, shorter time, cheaper transport, the promotion of the development of an area. Let's just remember what the Zagreb-Split road meant for our tourism. We can also project what will mean for our tourism Pelješki bridge. I mention tourism because so far it has been here and we have not mentioned it in this debate, and we expect more than 7 billion euros in revenue from it in the coming year. So in this budget, for state-owned infrastructure projects, and it is known that in crises they can be one of the engines of development. We see that incentives for small and medium-sized economies are also represented. Are they smaller than in previous years? They are because budget revenue is also lower, but they are generally kept not only through direct items that show how much they will now be for business zones, how much they will be for small and medium entrepreneurship but also through other forms, for example. The Regional Development Fund, HABOR, etc. What I think is extremely favourable is that it is retained and increased budget for agriculture. The agricultural budget continues its rise, and it is by 4.3% higher than last year, that is, this year. It is higher by 20% compared to the budget two years ago and this is a continuation of good practice to try to reduce the huge imports of food from abroad by subsidies and restructuring of agriculture. So as far as the development side is concerned, I believe the budget will be maintained for these reasons. As far as the social side is concerned, I will remind you that the proposed budget in the social contributions items is as much as 10% higher than last year. We're not talking about health care, I'm only talking about social giving items that indicate high social sensitivity, and it has to be that way during the crisis period that's coming. Under crisis, I mean a period that is more economically difficult than the current and last years. But I would also like to commend in this budget and some savings. Even though they were telling us a tight belt gango thieving, we wouldn't insult that belt, so I'll tell you where we tightened the belt. Well, here, for example. The Parliament has a rise far above the rise in budget. The increase in Parliament's expenditure will be 1.3% higher than the total budget increase. So we tightened the belt. I will say that in the field of representation, the expenditure for the national team has been made a total of 52 million kuna savings, so let's just say that the total expenditure for the 2009 budget team is. 11% smaller than he was this year, and I think that's what budget makers should be congratulated on. Congratulations and Minister Cobankovic, his regional development ministry has an item for the 46% less than this year's national team. The health and social care ministry has shown that in rationalisations it is not only at the expense of others but also itself, so Minister Milinovic reduced the representation item by 40%, which I think is commendable. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity has an item of expenditure for the team 40% less than this year. The Ministry of Culture 10% lower. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 22% lower. Moreh 11%, etc. etc. So I believe that we, too, who are so offended by the public without any excuse, have shown that we are tightening the belt and that we are ready to participate with the entire population of this country in what is called cutting expenditure where possible and where it is not necessary. It should also be said that increased revenues are in some items that are commendable. Let's just say I'm happy that the increased incomes are, say, 24% for associations, associations that we're always kind of accepting as social co-ordinators. For national minorities, 62%, from 14 to 23 million kuna. For associations from 60 to 75 million kuna. The Central Office for the Development Strategy and the coordination of the European Union funds was to be increased at the moment and increased by 16.5%. The Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investment Promotion also has an increased inflow of 34% of the assets because at the moment it is crucial for the survival and development of the economy. About health care this time you wouldn't, because we're going to have opportunities for a day or two about it much more extensively. It is only to be said that under these difficult economic conditions decisions only part of health reform is also social, it has a social omen and we can postpone for some better time its second phase that will certainly be able to be less socially sensitive then. So the opportunities determine what kind of health reform will be, and we have learned that from other countries. They say he's smart in other people's experiences, and he's a fool in his own. We have learned from other people's experiences and have not fallen into reform in socially sensitive moments. And in the end, this budget is still pouring in, so I'd say moderate optimism. Any statement that is catastrophic can also mean a negative incentive in the economy. That's why I'd end up, and yet there's light at the end of the tunnel. I'm going to mention a little light called the FINA report on the average salary in the last month, so in October. The average salary was 5,015.00 kuna, compared to the month before that by 0.9% higher nominally and 1% higher realistically. A little light, but it's not dark in the tunnel. I'd say CROBEX has been in the plus for the last six days and today CROBEX is in the plus 2.4%. It wasn't someone flashing, but a little light at the end of the tunnel. Because of that light, I suggest we support this budget, because it guarantees us to go through the dark tunnel ahead of us with the slightest injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22802	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We've got three reports of rectification and five for replication. Let's start by correcting the allegations. Dear colleague Marjan Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22803	It is not true that this budget is developed and social. Here is the Ffond for the development of employment this year for the regional development of the Split-Dalmatia County, 12 million kuna is forecasted for the following year 3 million kuna, so 9 million kuna less. The development of coastal and infrastructure projects in the current budget of 70 million kuna, this future budget envisions 28 million kuna. The difference between 30 million and 80, 60 million kunas is the difference. The development, therefore, of energy on the islands with 3 million kunas descends to 1 million kunas. Socially, you say. The Ministry of Family, Defence, etc. for affirmation of rights and policy improvements for people with disabilities this year, which points out 20 million... kuna in next year's budget envisions 736 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you can see, you can hardly call this a social policy of good, but the truth of will, here's the Ministry of the Sea, etc. For the restoration of the rolling stock, it predicts as much as 5 million kuna, and the islands are reduced by the regional water supply system Neretva, Korčula, Pelješac, Lastovo, Mljet 2 million kuna and for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22804	My colleague Jurjevic... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22805	So, as for the car in the Ministry of the Sea, it gets 5 million, or it takes 5 for water supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22806	I'm correcting the quote. I said, we have five more replicas. In the replica, then anyone can answer. That's not what I'm saying. But it wasn't, those allegations weren't spoken here. We can correct what's said here, not what's written in the materials. That's what I'm talking about. Further to the correction of the allegations, a distinguished colleague of MPs, Biljana Borzana, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Hebrang, I would refer to your claim that the budget has been developed. You yourself have been denied if we take agriculture, I assume colleagues from the HSS will agree that agriculture is an important segment of our country's development. You said 4% has increased, but this increase is nowhere near the total budget. So it's in the number, but in the percentage part not even close, so that's where you've already been denied. And I'll commend you for one of your statements. I don't know if it's a lapus linguae or something, but at first you said why this budget is like that we don't know. It's a very good statement, it speaks generally of your attitude towards the budget and how you did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22808	Again. Come on, we've fixed up a little bit, we've replicated a little bit. And another correction to the quote, the esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I would correct the incorrect assumption of whose belt is tightened. The budget may conclude the following. The development of the island and coast minus 107 million kuna, connecting the island with the mainland and... minus 25 million kuna, the restoration of the passenger frite of the Adriatic Sea minus 10 million kuna, the construction and maintenance of the port sub-grading in ports of national importance minus 27 million kuna and what is the most important water supply of the Adriatic islands, which was particularly surprising to me, minus 2.96 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I don't know how you're gonna water that weed on a number of golf courses you're planning on building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22810	But as far as I'm concerned, this belt thing has been tied to the position of what we spend here in the Parliament and at the position of the Parliament, so no fishing and island belts should be put into operation. We do. ... We didn't catch anything on him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll stretch it right to our border you know. We have a replica, a respected colleague, Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22811	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I agree completely with Professor's observation. Hebrang, who spoke about the global crisis and its impact on the Croatian economy. Global impacts on national economies I would say is proportionate to the extent that national economies are part of the global economy and in this case Croatia is, as Prof. Hebrang, slightly furry because it really isn't a significant part of the global economy. That's clear to everyone. But it should be noted, however, that there are also companies in the Republic of Croatia and in our environment that are part of the global economy, which unfortunately felt the consequences of these tectonic disorders on the global stage. London's LMI metal market in the last six months has dropped the price of aluminum from $3000 to $400. At that time, raw materials had almost remained unchanged at their financial amounts. One good part of our TLM industry in Sibenik, etc. It is very much in an invisible situation, not as part of a disturbance, a local character, not as part of bad planning at local level, but exclusively as a consequence of global global disturbances in the industrial sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22812	Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow representative Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22813	Thank you very much, fellow Cossic. So he points out that the disorders that economists, macro economists call tectonics, have also affected Croatia. And indeed, in this situation, Croatia has gone through the least furry. You've seen what happens in the metal industry, in the field of electricity and other energy. In those moments, the budget that has been adopted is definitely a budget that allows for further development. If we were talking about development and thinking about agriculture, I didn't think that agriculture got too much, I just said that it got 4% higher, and in a time without a global crisis in your term in 2002 it only got 2% higher. That's what I'm talking about. Also, of course I didn't say I didn't know why the budget was like that, but I said I didn't know why the global circumstances were such that we had to do such a budget, and neither do you colleagues. Even my colleague Ljubo Jurcic doesn't know that as an expert. Nobody knows that but those who caused such tectonic disorders, and I said we'd probably find out in 10 or 15 years. All major global crises have become like laws in joint vessels and small countries, and only long after that have we found out which capital that interest was behind it. That's what I'm talking about. And that's why I think, in this context, this budget should also be taken into account and that it has blended in in the least painful way in this world epidemic or pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22814	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's true, my colleague, that the budget is both developed and social. The very fact that the budget will rise in expenditures by 6.3% and in revenues by 5.3% speaks for itself enough that this budget does not go backwards, but that it goes forward and grows items, and that it is saved in those positions where it can be saved, and that it will certainly not be felt on salaries or on citizens' standards. I'm glad you mentioned the infrastructure again, and you told the Pelješki bridge that investment in that infrastructure would actually mean development, and today we could hear the guy's statements that will make us hungry. So, because of the 300 million kunas invested in the Peljega Bridge, we'll be hungry. But none of them, those critics. These criticisms come from the ranks coming from the SDP did not ask what price are two ordinary projects in the City of Zagreb? So the total cost of building the Peljega Bridge is somewhere around 250m euros. And one hall in the City of Zagreb costs 210m euros and plus one bridge that could be called a bridge compared to the Pelješki bridge, costs 800m kuna. So, only those two investments are worth over 310m euros. Only those two investments in the City of Zagreb. Today again, the question of the Pelješko Bridge is raised to the Croatian public, which is cheaper than the two investments that are in the City of Zagreb. I am for both investments in the City of Zagreb in order not to be misunderstood and supported by the construction of a 230m-euro handball hall, and I also supported the construction of a 800m-euro bridge. But it is amazing that today we are being respected for 300 million euros, 500 million kuna due to the Pelješko Bridge and which costs much less than these two investments in the City of Zagreb, not to mention tanks and drones and other billions of kuna nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22816	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22817	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Matusic for re-incentived the issue of infrastructure. It is said enough about the Pelješko bridge, let us remember one more time, which would mean the Pelješki bridge not only for Dubrovnik, not only for Korčula and other islands, but also for the political plan that we are talking about a little bit. No country in Europe is divided into another country. And it is our mission to prepare ourselves to join the European Union. One option is to connect those two parts to the future Schengen border. It is also an economic justification, because we will agree that entering the European Union is an economic entry. As for the infrastructure, I'm very happy today and I love this day, I heard from the Prime Minister that according to Bjelovar, Koprivnica, the Križevci highway will be built with full profile. We're not going to complain about that now, are we? Drive to these beautiful Croatian towns to Zagreb and you will see. It takes you two hours of dangerous driving to get to the suburbs of the town of Zagreb, and then there is a Bandic traffic waiting for you, which means another 2 hours to the city center. I think the infrastructure is a driver of development at moments like this, and it won't cause hunger. And if it's really hungry, we'll all be in Bandic's tank, he's all-powerful, so he'll protect us from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22818	Thank you very much. Keep going. A distinguished colleague representative of Luke Denon applied for the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22819	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, my colleague Hebrang and I greatly appreciate your optimism, I think it is okay, of course, and I understand with the zeal with which you defend a budget like this, but it seems to me that one eight, nine hours ago you obviously weren't in the hall or you were wrongly listening to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia because, in your optimism, you have now reaffirmed that this is a balanced, real, social, developmental one, you should repeat that we should say what the budget should look like, you didn't hear what the Prime Minister said. I listened very carefully, otherwise I listen very carefully to what the Prime Minister says and he can say. And of course, as he argued in what frameworks we are bringing this budget, that the expansion of the crisis in the world has come and we have acknowledged that, and the negative effects of this crisis have also come to Croatia and that the priority is, above all, how to tackle the regular functioning that I am not now counting what he said is true. But it is also determined that this budget we are now discussing in the next day, the day after tomorrow, will experience changes. Changes in a way that with these amendments and the government will change them, then it cannot be determined at the moment that we are talking about it in some very stable and balanced way. I'll be as poetic as my other colleagues say, so I'd rather characterise it today when we talk about it at 6:00 in the afternoon, if he were still swimming. And there's something in that swimming that I'd like to say, and that's symbolic of that swimming, is that we're still waiting for who's going to give us a lifeguard, and we're asking God not to be a money fund, because then we know what it's going to look like. Of course, such a concise budget, which is swimming, and we cannot direct it to the European swimming championship that is being held tomorrow and opened in Rijeka, I regret to say that there will be no Prime Minister there, which I am not very pleased about. But a representative of the HDZ Club found that we are witnessing state interventions in other countries that have been affected by the crisis. Here's what we're trying to find in this budget that I would call crisis, that if there's a crisis, let it be a crisis. And let's find you to be witnesses to our budget where these state interventions are, because it's obvious that we have our general motors, I'd say it's shipbuilding, maybe we have our own volkswagen, maybe it's that wooden industry where we've lost so many jobs now, but obviously we haven't found it in this budget. And that's why he can't be different than swimming and waiting for the IMF to save him or God forbid. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22820	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished colleague Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22821	Well, dear fellow, I agree with you a lot in some things, but two things don't. First, if you had listened carefully and always listened carefully, then you would have seen that I talked for three minutes about the global crisis that affected this and this budget and that I wasn't optimistic, not because of that budget. I'm not optimistic about global economic movements. You'd also hear the Prime Minister if you listened very carefully. The prime minister did not pour pessimism because he is aware of what pessimism means in terms of the Croatian economy. He was very real, and he said, this budget is what it is now, and we'll follow the world's events and, if necessary, we'll adapt. So what if in six months, there's an end to the crisis and the economy moves forward. So clearly we're going to change it, but we're going to change it in the opposite case, if it deepens, we're going to adjust it. So, I agree with you we can call the budget swimming, but I disagree with you that swimming means unstable, although he is swimming but has a firm anchor. And that anchor is called security in economic development in the given conditions and social security. Well, let's stick to that anchor, not swimming.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22822	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22823	I would refer to your exposure to fellow Hebrang when you say, that's when the government will arrive in the next few days with a proposal to reduce this deficit by 1.6%. I really can't agree with you then that the government has predicted all the consequences of the economic and financial crisis that can affect Croatia when in a week it can come from a zero deficit to 1.6, so it will now return to the zero deficit again. So there's no meaningful policy here. When you say that our priorities and retaining economic growth are at a certain level that is possible under these conditions and then you try to say that through the allocations for funds, for HABOR, for agriculture. Well, there's no priority at all. Read some of these numbers. The Regional Development Fund has fallen so much over the past five years that the county cannot get more than 1 to 2 million kunas. What kind of regional development is this? Tell me, in my Međimurje County, which is now going to get 35% less funding again. All 2 million and 600 thousand kuna. That's less than 100 grand per municipality. Or what will happen to HABOR who lacks 3 billion kunas in order not to be considered a fund in Europe that will sooner or later have to go to the deficit of the state rather than as a development bank. What is it with agriculture, with a major land mining project when the purpose is less than 45% of the assets and they were symbolic in the last year? What is it with subsidies, promotion of exports when subsidies are less than 20%, means to boost exports 30%. What is the priority of retaining economic growth? Not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22824	Thank you. A reply to the replica of his colleague Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22825	Thank you very much. My colleague, you say what the budget is when in a week we go from minus 1.6 to 0 or 0.5. Well, not in a week. Follow the Internet. Did you watch... Today? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In three minutes, you have such changes that you can't plan if you want to invest three minutes in advance. Well, of course we've come to new knowledge in a week, that in a week the situation has changed. I also said what changed. In these weeks, average wages in Croatia increased as the only country in Europe where average salaries and nominally and realistically increased by 1%. Well, Crobex's headed for a positive one, and we'll see if it's going to be that way or not in a week. In these times, there is no forecast for a long time, and that will be said to you by all your fellow macro-economicists. But as for the small development of certain areas. Well, of course, if the budget went down less than last year that certain developments would be weaker. And we didn't say that we fixed the development. We only said that we adapted them to an existing situation. If you have an idea better for the budget, please exit the next line with a proposal and not just with criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22826	Thank you very much. The last application was made for the replica by a respected colleague, Mršić, who was represented by Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22827	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Hebrang, I really welcome that you have noticed that at the Croatian Parliament's item there have been some qualitative changes and reductions. I'd be glad if it had happened in other ministries, so let's mention it, and I'd be particularly glad that something like that happened at the Ministry of Economy which was designed to be at the service of the economy to preserve jobs or to increase the number and open the number of jobs. But what happened at the Ministry of Economy? The pay rate for regular work is up 12%. Compensation for the work of representative bodies, executive bodies and commissions 35%, reconstruction of the rolling stock 12%. And I thought now it's really going to increase these incentives, entrepreneurship zones and all that. However, incentives to invest in clusters are down 6%, subsidies to farmers are down 30%, prequalification, requalification and employment of craftsmen, which is extremely important next year because craftsmen will be the first to hit the process of indiquitability 10%, requalification of the unemployed 10%, increase in competitiveness of the Croatian industry 30%. Don't we really need in this global global crisis to shoot as much money as possible in the competitiveness of the Croatian industry and try to win some more markets to make? The restructuring and development of a particular branch of industry reduces 30% of the item. However, on the regional competitiveness operational programme, the team is increasing by 150% and that is what the Ministry of Economy is doing. Instead of investing in industrial development, in increasing competitiveness, in retraining craftsmen and unemployment, in developing competences they invest in new cars and in representation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22828	The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22829	Thank you very much. A colleague attacked the Ministry of Economy, of course for no reason. It's a ministry that has just been one of the biggest engines of our development for the past five years and will certainly continue to be so. And what you're saying and what's true is that wages have increased by 12% is the least wrong economy ministry because the government has done everything to ensure that wages don't rise this unfairly high in a crisis period, but unfortunately unions haven't agreed to share the fate of everyone else, I'm talking about Union employees in state bodies, so these trade unions have asked for this salary increase. That's why you'll see it on the M.O.P.'s item. The MUP also has a huge increase in income and expenditure. Why? Because hiring a lot of civil servants and deputies and they said they wanted to go up 6%. And what did they do with it? They took 6% from a state register that 6% could go to all of these items that you have now said in the incentive for employment, so that 6% of them will be cut off from the economy and all those who are employed outside the state sector. So, "circulus vicious" was launched, the Ministry of Economy had to single out for wages, and for that reason it had to slow down certain development items, but I assure you it was made in the most rational way and no item that was important to the economy was Croatia nor abolished during this crisis period, nor was it significantly reduced. And as far as pay goes, go to the unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22830	Thank you very much. Next, the debate will be followed by a esteemed colleague of MP Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22831	Thank you. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government who are not so large now. In my debate, I will refer to the budgets of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Culture and the financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, so I will talk about the budget items related to environmental protection. Although the prime minister in the opening statement tried to convince us that this unambitious budget is the result of objectively difficult economic circumstances in the world and thus tries to amneste his own responsibility and justify a false promise made in last year's campaign, the fact is that this budget is precisely the result of the five-year missed rule of Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ. This autumn, we heard from just two or three months ago that the Croatian economy is extremely stable and advanced in the economic crisis in the United States and in some other countries until the state is in a financial banana and that we will be happy if we keep our jobs. In just a few days, the situation in Croatia has been transformed from a country where honey and milk flow into a situation where the recession hits the stomach of the state and all its citizens and citizens. This explanation I am sure we will never hear of because then the prime minister and his team would have to admit or that they systematically deceived the Croatian public or that they were simply incompetent. And that would, of course, mean that this incompetent team has to leave because it's obviously not able to deal with the challenges of state governance for one reason or another. The idealessness and lack of creativity of this government but also how high the Government is on a scale of political priorities is best seen from the draft budget of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Culture. I should remind the Ministry of Environment is the biggest loser of this year's budget proposal, i.e. in 2009 it will receive 10.48% less money in a situation where the Ministry's budget should be gradually growing if we want to meet all the environmental obligations and standards required by the European Union. An explanation by the ministry's officials that the Ministry's 2009 budget actually has an increase of 40 million kuna and for the environmental protection programme that there has been an internal redistribution of the budget items of the Ministry or of a drastic reduction in the articles of the housing programme does not change anything on the fact that the envisaged funds for the implementation of the environmental protection programme are missing especially for projects of the Environment Protection Agency. And not only in terms of meeting the obligations that the European Union requires of us, but in terms of showing a long-term vision of the sustainable development of Croatia, which this government clearly does not have from the budget. And therefore, this year too, I regret to conclude that bureaucrats from the European Union or foreigners are more concerned with protecting our environment than with our government. As for the budget items for nature protection, which is absolutely pointlessly located in the Ministry of Culture and not in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the situation is even worse. This year's implementation of the Nature Protection Programme envisions a 2% reduction compared to the 2008 budget. May I remind you that recently in this distinguished House, we have discussed a report on the implementation of the previous and new Strategy for the Protection of Biological and Regional Variety, which is a fundamental strategic document for the field of nature protection? I have already expressed my doubts about the implementation of projects and programmes from the new Strategy, because I recall a total of 315 action plans set out in the previous strategy not implemented 147. In part, 150 were implemented while the miserable 18 plans were successfully implemented. These plans were not implemented because there were not enough people or enough resources and the budget relating to the 2009 Nature Protection Programme convinced me that there was literally no way that the new Strategy for the Protection of Biological and Regional Varieties would ever be realised. In this regard, it is apparent that the real purpose of the Strategy is to promote it because the Budget Proposal shows that there is no political will to implement it. And now I'm going to say a little bit about the Fund's financial plan for environmental protection and energy efficiency. About a month ago, I asked the Fund to provide me with information on the investments of the Fund in environmental and energy efficiency programmes and projects during 2007 and 2008 in order to prepare for today's debate on the budget and the financial plans of extra budget users. Often, when discussing the budget, we hardly even look back on the finances of extra- budget users, and this is extremely bad because the funds of extra- budget users are used in a non-transparent and corrupt way. This unequivocally shows the material that I received from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. For example, in 2007 and 2008, the Fund for the Action for the Rehabilitation of Wild Depositors granted nearly 50 million kunas and it would be commendable if those funds were not allocated by political key, i.e. to those cities and municipalities in which the HDZ is in power. In the analysis of the table, it can often be found at the allocation of 600,000 kuna in favour of HDZ sites or HDZ to friendly companies, and this 600 thousand kuna means that not so small funds have been signed and assigned by the personal director of the Fund. In addition, although the Fund Regulation set out that the Fund can finance projects up to 80% of the total investment price, the Fund has financed many projects in a large, large number of cases 100%. Who got that money? Let me just name some of them. The town of Glina, known companies such as "IGH", "APO", "KONEKS ST", "GEO AKS", "Effects and Ferolegura d.d.", "Salonite", "Cyan", "Dalkovod", "Attestes and Protection of Raw materials, landfill". Otherwise, some companies very, very often appear in this table as those who have received huge funds from the Environmental Engineering Fund. These are primarily "Flora VTC", "Sorvine dumps", "Cyan", "Union paper", "Belisce d.d.", "IGH". It should be noted that some national parks are more expensive to the Fund than others. So the Plitvice Lakes National Park and Risnjak National Park are significantly more frequent and more than others are getting money from the Fund because the management of these parks has friends from the Vinko Mladine Fund. It is not only the friendly ties between the Director of Youth that opens the door to the Fund's cash register but also the friendly links between some other government officials such as Secretary of State Davor Mrduljaš and Nikola Ruzhinski. Perhaps it was because of these friendly connections that the money from the Fund was given the Union paper in which the wife of Davor Mrduljaš or Gumar Cavic, in which the wife of State Secretary D. Mrduljaš worked before and Shipyard Krk with whose administration the Secretary of State Ružinski is in very good friendly relations. The system for grandmothers and uncles also works within the Fund, so Lidija Tošić, spokeswoman of the Davor Mrduljaša Fund, and the HDZ company is also Eko Velebit, who often gets jobs from the Fund, "Drava International" from Osijek, 2Recovery" d.o.o. ... "Mikeli Tomic" d.o.o. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ appears to have just funded the Fund's funds in an election campaign. If we look at what municipalities and cities have received funds from the Cant and container purchase fund and when these funds are paid to municipalities and cities, this is during the autumn of 2007 the picture becomes crystal clear. During that period, a pile of money from the Fund was received by the Ministry of the Interior all for the same project, which was broken into several parts without any explanation, only to double the money. The fund handed out money with hand and hat for the purchase of savings bulbs and whether it should be told to municipalities and cities in which HDZ is in power at all. It's a very non-transparent distribution of money and for the purchase of machines, so we can talk about total fraud, a new form of privatization robbery, which I'm afraid I'm very quickly convinced of. On the other hand, when the Fund's contests are not won by HDZ's favorites, the competitions are destroyed four times as the case was with the recovery of the Bakar coxary. Denialing the government and the authorities on these and a whole series of other problems as well as the absence of new projects in the budget suggests that this government is unable to solve the problems of this country. Since the sole purpose of this budget is to maintain the ruling majority in the Parliament and to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their future cannot support such a draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22832	We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect that this government has been cheating for five years. Do not underestimate the common sense of Croatian voters who trusted the same government just a year ago. Therefore, they would have been very good at assessing who was misleading them. After all, they assessed it in 2003. You told them that they lived better just so they didn't see it better. I think it's clear who's cheating on who. Another thing about environmental protection. Real funds have been increased to protect the environment 40 million kunas and that is said. So they're not reduced, they're increased. And third, if you have doubts about working in the fund, report it to the state's attorney's office. Do not use a pay phone here to invoke the name and last name of some people who have nothing to do with this budget and the topics of today's debate. Go to the state's attorney's office and report it. But knowing the fact that you worked with people who were in direct conflict of interest that you supported them as what counterpart Cacic was then you were in the ministry then I know what it was and who it was directed against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22834	Thank you very much. We have further reports of correction of the quote. Dear fellow MP Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also correct the incorrect allegation of a fellow SDP representative who said that regarding this budget, the government either deceives the public or is incompetent. In 2008 it has just shown the government's ability to ease inflation pressure and preserve macro-economic stability in the coming crisis and monetary policy measures and fiscal policy measures. And that's what we're all witnessing. And it's also about whether or not he's cheating on the public. This government does not deceive the public and has made it clear that the crisis is at the door, and that is why it has also held talks with the social partners and has therefore proposed this budget. So, maximum savings. Containment of state spending. So anything that would further affect and boost imports and increase the deficit that we know the situation on the global financial market, what it is to come to credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22836	Thank you very much. A fellow representative, Lesar, signed up for the replica. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22837	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, you have made several very good and important observations about the proposed budget. To reduce the crowd of these colleagues and colleagues who have not yet raised their Christmas certificate can do so at the register to get the girls home as soon as possible so they don't have to wait deep into the night until we finish the debate. In 2004, when the law reduced VAT to 20% was missing around 3 billion kuna and then the finance minister said the difference from 3 billion VAT cuts would be compensated by analising, reducing the grey economy. The grey economy today in Croatia participates with about 14% of gross social product and I have not heard anyone from the government speak about that there are certain reserves in the grey economy in the budget and other regulations that should follow. So if it amounts to a lot at the least 14% of gross social product, then perhaps the income side would be slightly different. But we know why it's not done. And one more thing. Counting state budget users other than the ministry I found 15 government offices, 1 advice, 1 directorate, 4 central state offices, 2 funds, state funds, 4 lawyers, 10 state offices, 3 state agencies, one state agency, one state administration, two state commissions, two state centres, one state council, not counting 58 state secretaries and 186 their assistants. It is a contribution to the government's reduction that was promised to the government's apparatus at the beginning of this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22838	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished colleague Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22839	Dear colleague Lesar, unfortunately, I must conclude that the fund is operating not in the field of the gray economy, but in the area of the black economy, and as regards colleagues who have been correcting incorrect allegations, they have been referring to the opinion that I, as a representative, may have on certain issues, I would expect to correct the incorrect allegations of my grandparents and uncles to grant money from the fund, not whether I think the government is incompetent or not incompetent, or whether or not it deceives the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22840	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, Boris Kunst, also applied for the debate. Comrade Kunst, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22841	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues. Well, it's certainly undeniable that everyone here in the hall would be happy that next year's proposal for a state budget has a balanced income and expenditure. But for a number of reasons, such a goal remains, in objective circumstances, only an inexplicable desire. The reality of the moment dictates the necessity to plan higher expenditures in the 2009 state budget than income, which unfortunately will have to be compensated by borrowing. According to the assessment, the revenues of the state budget will increase by 5.2% in 2009 and total expenditure by 6.9%. I would like to remind you that in the second half of 2008, we amended the rules on taxation of income in order to create, together with the beginning of the application of the Minimum Salary Act from 1 July of this year, the preconditions for the increase and the gross and net salary to the category of employees with the lowest income in Croatia. These tax benefits continue to apply in 2009 which is one of the reasons for reduced tax revenues. True, income from other taxes is expected to grow, but these revenues will also be affected by the global recession and the global crisis that affects our economy. What is particularly important is the fact that even under such a particularly difficult circumstances, the government did not give up on the implementation of a wage policy agreed on in 2006 without the consent of the social partners. The base for salaries of state and public service employees will increase by 6%, but total expenditure on public budget employees will grow faster than that percentage by as much as 9%. This is due to the various additions to work under special working conditions, which are added on an increased basis, which shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to meet all its commitments consistently. The State budget also provides funds for the payment of all material rights governed by existing collective agreements for officials and subsistences in state and public services. That part has not been given up either, but all agreed rights remain within the agreed scope. Costs for 2009 employees were planned with 23.5 billion kuna, only comparisons for 2006 amounted to 17.3 billion kuna when wage policy was agreed for employees of state and public services. The budget implementation law provides that the budget base of which determines the majority of fees and support for public and public service employees in 2009 is 3 326 kuna, indicating that no material law will be reduced. The funds to help socially sensitive population groups are increasing by 182 million kuna from 2.7 to 2.9 billion in the following year. I would remind you that we are still paying debts on the basis of lawsuits of employees in state and public services for material rights contracted by the coalition government in 2000/2003, here somewhere, and did not respect them and did not plan the funds for their payment and for those raps on the basis of judicial disputes in which employees seek agreed rights from earlier years, in the 2009 budget these necessary funds were also planned. So far, because of the non-compliance with the collective agreement of 2000 and 2001, it has been paid to employees and courts, it has been the normal and judicial costs of 1.6 billion kunas that could remain in the budget for other social support. Sufficient funding for pension payments is being provided by 4.1%. The funding for maternity benefits, child benefits and benefits for unemployed persons is increasing, so these social categories will not be reduced by any social law. We also managed to keep the pension savings in the third pillar, and due to the expected increase in the number of persons to be included in voluntary pension insurance, the funds for these purposes have been increased by 27%. All this proves that even under the conditions of the crisis, efforts are made to maintain the social rights achieved and to preserve the standard of the socially sensitive part of the population. A register of non-taxable incomes in 2009 will also be completed by the Register of State aid and the Register of Social Compensation and will introduce a personal identification number that will facilitate the monitoring of the income of the citizens of the property in order to help them out of the budget more fairly, meaning to those who need it most. In particular, it should be pointed out that despite the existing conditions in the 2009 budget, significant increases are being made to encourage employment. For the first time, funds are allocated to the institution of the Academy of Labour, which should contribute to the harmonisation of labour market offers and demand. Only for the implementation of preparations for employment and self-employment in the following year, as much as 7 times the amount spent in 2008. New programmes are also being introduced, such as the programme to strengthen social inclusion of persons who have difficulty accessing the labour market and cross-border trade fairs. For the implementation of active employment policy measures, 5% more funding is planned than this year, such as implementation of the Roma Action Plan, even twice as much. As severe as the financial crisis has been, it will not be spared on the main bearer of the development of this society, which is science and education. And there is an estimated growth of 8.8% or 1.1 billion kuna. This data should be particularly highlighted because of the fact that a global crisis that has not been bypassed and which cannot bypass Croatia threatens to reduce the number of jobs, but from what I have said, the planning of increased funding for a programme that promotes employment policy is a response to these forecasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22842	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two applications for replication. First of all, dear fellow MP Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22843	Well, here's what my colleague Kunst said was that social rights funds were increased in this budget. My colleague Kunst has grown, but not enough to carry out what you wrote in your own documents. I will tell you here that the government has adopted a strategy for reforming social benefits that should have been reformed in the period 2007/2008. So in that document, you made yourself an obligation to raise 100 kuna social benefits, which is the basis for social benefits. Unfortunately, you haven't increased those 100 kunas. Your deadline was 11 months this year. For this, you need an additional 238 million kunas that are not in this budget, which means that in the following year there will be no increase for this most vulnerable category, so 115 thousand of our residents who receive social assistance and whose compensation does not meet even 20% of their needs. So they're people, they're being said here today that there are no hungry ones. There are hungry, unfortunately, in this country. There are hungry people because you haven't reformed the welfare system. Unfortunately, you haven't even had an assistant for social care in over a year, let alone more. So if you had made a reform of social care and social rights order, maybe we would have had enough of these resources, and those in need of social assistance would get it, and those who get it today would be illegal without it and others. On the other hand, I must tell you that, for example, for the implementation of population policy, 3 billion and 490 million kuna are foreseen here, and only for the restoration of the rolling stock and the information of the same family ministry is provided for 3 billion and 930 million kuna. Therefore, much more for the rolling stock and information, than for the implementation of the population policy, and I will say about how much the implementation of the population policy is either in the next replica or in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22844	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22845	Thank you very much to my dear colleague Opacic on this replica, but I think she knows as well as all the other MPs that social reform is currently under way. He also knows that the adoption of the Law on Social Welfare will also increase that compensation. ... Listen, you don't know if it will be or what it will be when the law is passed. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So there's a budget reprogramming. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, no material rights, but no material rights existing this year have been reduced by any employee in Croatia. It's a fact and you can't get away from that fact. We can talk about what will only be, if it will be and when it will be. Now you can't tell what's going to happen and what won't happen. We can take one ball and then beg to try using that ball and see what happens. But again, I'm telling you that no material law has been reduced compared to this year in this budget for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22846	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague representative, Goran Maras, applied for the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22847	Mr. Kunst spoke a little bit about employment policy and said that there was even an increase in funding, and the truth is just the opposite. The active employment policy programme has been reduced and has been reduced most in subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So there's even 18, 17% or 15 million kuna there. Right where it is most needed and where the impact of the crisis is most expected to be. So among those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, they have been denied subsidies for hiring new people. On the other hand, Mr. Kunst, a little off with your club president's speech. You have commended something that is normal to respect the rights of workers while your president of Mr. Hebrang's club said that the unions are guilty of this deficit and that they are unreasonable to what they have insisted that workers get what they should get. So make a little arrangements at the HDZ Club before you speak your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22848	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22849	Thank you very much. Well, you see, fellow Maras, if you've read the budget, then you could see what I said was that the funds for preparing employment and self-employment in the following year are even seven times higher than those spent this year. You could also see that the means to implement active employment policy measures are planning 5% more than this year. So you can't say that the funds for employment and policy implementation, the active employment policy, are reduced. That's not true. And as for fellow Hebrang, I didn't hear him say that the unions were guilty, did he say that at all, so it's hard for me to answer at all, because I didn't even hear that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22850	Thank you very much. We're moving on, that is, to the next debate. Dear fellow MP Kruno Markovinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22851	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's today we've heard a lot about this budget, and I'm just gonna say a few words first. Since 93, I've been dealing with this budget as head, mayor, president of the city council, and since we have three opposition councilmen, two from the SDP and one from the HNS all 15 years of the same rhetoric, the budget is too high and the budget is not developmental. I'm not going to mention what happened in the meantime, but it turns out that neither the budget was too high because we just had to rebalance, we always raised that budget, and if it was a developmental one, I don't think it should be proved, I think it's known what budget I'm talking about and what the city looks like now. And that's exactly what I was gonna say, let's get back to reality. I continue to claim that the budget is realistic, realistic to the extent that it can be. It would be great if we had a lot more money, if there wasn't a crisis around us, if she'd gone through with the storm, but let's not mix up what happened a few months ago and what happened today. Because a few months ago, I said that today, it was claimed that a barrel of oil would come up to $200 and everybody laughed so gently, 200 bucks to see what it would be, so let's make it as big as possible because it would be nicer here, right? But here's the barrel of oil going down, and I believe that it will help and we'll recover, and the economy should go a little faster and it shouldn't actually go too far with black hunches. We're talking about the social budget, so, of course, it's social. The rights aren't cut. Unfortunately, I'd be as happy as I think everyone here is that the rights are significantly increased, but it should be said that in that budget still long pensioners come back, we all forget it seems like some things, war after war, and we'll come to an end here, and we know who was coming back and who wasn't coming back, right? So the budget follows the health reform we have seen, whether it's less or more, it's obvious that it's less than what I'm actually surprised because in the debt the state has to do with the large-scale drugs, we know that in medicines that included the price and this starts here, so I don't think we should pay all of this suddenly, but as clearly as we can solve the problems that have been going on for a number of years. This agreement also respects the unions' agreement. Well, that's the difference. Actually, because if we were talking about a zero deficit, then we expected the unions to agree to it. The unions didn't agree and I think it's absolutely realistic that an agreement with the unions, since there's no new one, respects the way it is. Because if we don't respect him then we're going back to what we are, we're left with a billion and 600 million shorter because they didn't respect the agreements that you know best and that are mentioned many times today. Investment in the economy, working zones, is still significant regardless of the reduction and significantly higher than at the time when the coalition government was in power. The budget follows and we remember, we have a commitment to enter the NATO Pact, to join the European Union, and I think we will follow that in the extent to which we are expected to do so. But let's not go on double morals. We're propagating the savings, and then we're counting on the budget and every item that's been cut down, and you cut this down, and we've seen that on the boards, and we see it now, so I think it's easy to talk about it, but then we remember. Savings are savings, so now somewhere a little bit has to be taken, it's definitely. We have heard that the budget is conservative, that even if the situation worsens, there will be no more problems because income is expected to be more. So what's a little bit different from all these debates is, here's my colleague Holly yelling out loud, let's change the government because she's incompetent like this, and it seems to me like we just heard that the guy was something different on Friday afternoon. And now I know that SDP has nothing to do with it, but I just have to apologize. Here's Saturday morning, two young SDPs one 14 years, one of the 16 years of handing out flyers, has to do with the budget because it's freezing, so let's freeze this, let's freeze that, but let's not freeze the income. A normal decision has been made that there will be no freezing. And now it's raining and I'm asking the girls, the good girls are a little cold, so the big ones are colder now. I'm asking what it was like last night in the square, he said it wasn't so cold, but we had to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22852	They weren't young girls, they were pioneers, were they? Okay. We have two reports of correction of the quote, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If they were SDP's pioneers, but this debate was also at the pioneer level. The budget says the colleague is real. I say it's not, it's an incorrect quote, because the Prime Minister said that they will change some of the budget by Monday's amendments. So it's not real. He'll still fix it. It is neither real nor because the Government in this Law on the implementation of the budget for the following year requires that it be immediately allowed to redistribute almost the entire budget with its decisions. In other words, he can do it in January. Parliament will never get a budget rebalance, nor will it be discussed. The pensioner debt was not in this budget, it was neither in 2007, nor in 2009, because if it showed through the budget it would only increase the deficit. There is no return to the debt of the pensioner in this budget anywhere, and it was neither in the past nor in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22854	Correction of the quote, fellow representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague wrongly said that health care reform is a problem of debt to large drugstores and pharmacies anyway, which is not a problem because they are in the price to include non-payment deadlines. This is entirely wrong because all small pharmacies have been brought to ruin, since they are not paid for more than a year, and their prices cannot be included in any debt because prices are set by a list of Croatian Health Insurance Institute medicines and cannot charge any additional bonuses that would allow them to do what counterpart Markovanovic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22856	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Goran Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Markovinović, the difference between these discussions between ours and yours is what you're going to say about this budget is real and real, and then there will be an amendment for a billion and 700 million kuna less, and then you'll say it's realistic again. When it comes 5 billion more, then you would say again that it would be realistic. So the difference between our discussions and yours is what you obviously always have realistic budgets no matter what you think about it. So it would be good if we could get a little deeper into the analysis of these calculations, not just that you have to do what you're told. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22858	Replica reply, distinguished colleague Kruno Markovinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22859	Dear colleague, I'm so glad you said we'd adapt to all the conditions. I think we should adapt to the conditions. Maybe in a few days, the world's economy will go, and so will we. That's what we heard earlier, right? But I hope your pessimism isn't contagious. You're tenacious in pessimism. Don't spread viruses far, because I think people will laugh at you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22860	Nice. Replica esteemed colleague of parliament, Nedjeljka Klaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22861	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would actually apostrophe this fact that Mr. Markovanovic points out when he says that this budget is socially sensitive. You have the right, Mr Markovanovic, because definitely by 6.6% this year's budget, i.e. the 2009 budget is higher for socially sensitive and vulnerable groups of people than last year. 7.9% are higher fees for maternity benefits. Mr. Kunst also said what it was, that actually by 182 million kuna was increased by giving to socially sensitive groups. Likewise, local self-government units also participate in raising the level of quality and life of these vulnerable groups, as the largest wealth of the Republic of Croatia is in its population, just as investments in science in 2009 are projected to grow by 8.8%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22862	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22863	I thank my colleague, and I thank my colleague, Vinkovic, who has been successfully involved in politics lately. Here, we've heard about vulnerable groups. The fact is, there are a lot of vulnerable groups and they really need to be taken care of. But it seems to me that the most vulnerable group is right on the right, and now I'm sorry, we would have cured their wounds if they had submitted the amendments. Maybe they'd accept something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22864	Thank you very much. Followed by a further discussion of the distinguished colleague of representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22865	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we heard this morning, I'm going to try to sort of calm this debate. We're making a budget under difficult conditions, so far perhaps unrecorded, except for the time of war. The situation is worse than it is, we may be persuading right now and what we're predicting. We know that the crisis has begun in America on the real estate market, and we know that America has taken interventions both in the banking system and in the automotive industry. We also heard this morning that it would take $9 million of investment to bring everything into order. We also heard that both the European Union and we know, we are tracking for solutions and that we cannot stay away without consequences for our economy. So this budget is a reflection of everything that's going on in the world. Also... in Croatia, the government monitors the situation, takes measures, and this budgets are such a proposal, but surely in cooperation with the Croatian National Bank, as well as saving is the basic feature we hear these days and will mark it safely next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the savings we've heard from citizens and economies is currently in banks of more than 185 billion kuna, and we've heard that the last month has grown by or over the last two months by one billion, which is definitely a reflection of our decision on 400 thousand kuna guaranteed deposit. We have heard that the great economic experts agree only on the cause of the crisis, and all offer different solutions. I wouldn't say much about numbers, we heard all about numbers, the numbers are exact, the numbers are there, we have them in our papers, and they're not variable. So we can talk you're this, we're that, but the numbers are exact and they're perfectly clear, so there's no point in me reading them again and quoting them. But the fact that the budget is social, is the fact that it is also developed, and also as the chairman of the Finance Committee said this morning by stabilising. So when we say social, then all of these items that are all listed here today, from pensions that will grow, from health care, or health reform that will generate much higher costs, from maternity benefits, from child benefits to union-led talks that have resulted in this increase, but not only that, we said today, the reason for the deficit that will inevitably result in is health reform, is increased funds for the ministry and the judiciary and the MUP, and all because of our desire to join NATO, we are also one of the factors. I would just like to say one example, seven, eight years ago in my town, the former city administration didn't respect that union contract, it was better said that she didn't respect her salaries, and they were arbitraryly devoid of funds and in their desire to develop 20% cut their wages to all cultural workers. When we arrived in 2001, we found judgments of 7 million kuna that we had to return to our employees. So the government tried to negotiate with the unions this time, and it didn't work out, and it had to respect the collective agreement, because there's no other way out. And it's at the expense of development projects. However, there are development projects, primarily increased funding for education and science, which is a long-term development that we haven't mentioned much today, but we don't perceive it right now and it will reflect itself during the next period. We also heard a lot of infrastructure, and I would no longer mention it, but the fact that regardless of which government and local environment, it is not possible to say that the government has not acted in solidarity and evenly and that all Croatian regions are not evenly represented. That's a fact. And yet the best denial is the city of Ploche where we see that the greatest development is currently, and there is the power of the SDP. So I wouldn't seem to say it anyway if it wasn't good to talk here when our voters listen to us, and yet these aren't facts. As for the stabilising factor, it still invests in entrepreneurship, and debt returns as we see it is one of the basic elements in the next budget. It is said this morning that the document should be economical and that it is politically economic. Well, he's a political document, that's definitely it. He reflects what the government and its ministries will do next year. So it is at local level and it is sometimes a compromise. Well, this budget must be compromised. It reads everything the government plans to do next year, and as far as this agreement is concerned with partners, it is also embedded in the budget and that is one of the reasons why we will have to have a deficit. We heard from Minister Shuker this morning that the deficit is the biggest problem of this budget and I agree with that. The main problem is the means of funds, and I repeat everything we take on the domestic market, or leave less for the economy. And that's why, alluding to what Mrs. Zgrebec said about the budget not being realistic. It is realistic and will be realistic in two, three days, we expect amendments as we have heard from the prime minister and we believe that these amendments, and I hear in the field of health, will reduce this deficit and that the amount will be reduced to the least possible measure. It's also not a holy letter's budget, the budget's variable. He can experience rebalancing. Now here we have heard that the change of Down Johns from moment to moment, therefore the rebalancing is something that is real and we can count on. When it comes to development, we have to be satisfied, because we say immediately counts on all environments and I will say from my Dubrovnik corner, that I can be satisfied that large capital projects are envisaged, but personally I am not satisfied with their dynamics. That's what I'm gonna say here. However, for reasons of solidarity towards the general state of affairs in the world and in the state, I accept the situation, support the efforts of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, and of course I will support this draft budget together with the amendments that will arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22866	Thank you very much. We also have rectifications of quotes and replicas. First things first. Dear colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22867	You'll let me correct my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22868	Now left hand, now you're correcting my colleague Shuicu.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22869	Okay. I can correct my colleague, but I can only remind my colleague Markovanovic about how... /The speaker is excluded./... and about how HDZ comes to power you know very well without a choice...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22870	A colleague of Vinkovic's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22871	With 500 thousand kuna per council mandate, the apartment... /The speaker off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22872	There are other services where it should be said. Correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, it is worth correcting the allegations of counterpart Shuice that the Croatian economic crisis has begun in America. In fact, without the US financial crisis, Croatia was in charge of 37 billion euros. 90% of gross domestic product. Only last year, 10 billion euros was a trade deficit. It's a crisis in itself. And our crisis began colleagues from Shuice and colleagues from HDZ, HDZ policy in '94. The HDZ privatisation and trade policy. At the time, the HDZ government claimed that it was necessary to sell Croatian banks to introduce order into Croatian banks. At the time, the prime minister claimed from HDZ that it should be imported to discipline Croatian producers. The result of such a policy is today's situation in the Croatian economy. The consequence of such a policy is that last year we had a trade deficit of 10 billion kuna, so the stabilisation programme was spent, the doctrine that was in the HDZ for 15 years was spent, it wasn't going to invest in production programs, there was no industrial policy, and now we're where we are. So to claim that this budget is real then it's just showing that you're not looking into the facts that led to this situation. Without a change in that policy, it will not come out of this crisis. Thus, neither the budget is real nor developmental.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22874	Thank you. We have yet another application for correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So says counterpart Shuica that the biggest problem as Mr Shucker said today is the biggest problem of our budget deficit. That's not true. It's not a deficit problem. The problem is what that deficit is spent on. Again for consumption. If it was spent on opening new jobs, to increase industrial production then it wouldn't be a problem, but that's what this government hasn't recognized for five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22876	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, a colleague, Vinkovic, checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22877	Not even R from the development budget, no R from regional development. Looking at this budget you may be satisfied with that Dubrovnik side of yours but I cannot possibly be satisfied with Slavonic, especially from the school, since even in one show of Croatian Radio, the Prime Minister himself announced that HDZ will not choose ways or means to come to power. Well, I expected that the other advocates who have promised now in this time of rebalancing and already in the 1st month would bring money clippers to Djakovo, but there is not one project here that is related to Đakovo. On the other hand, in the reality of this budget, it may best say a statement by an esteemed representative who has also said that bad policy is a policy and that is exactly what is being drawn up on this budget. And finally, what kind of budget is this if this government has to borrow from business banks even for the salary of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and even here for us poor parliamentary representatives. And by the way, all directors of business banks are afraid of the situation that comes before Croatia and Croatian citizens and not a single businessman and especially not a Croatian citizen very difficult to get credit now and probably the last big loan was, the civilian loan was a loan from the former interior minister who would obviously have to live up to 127 years to return it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22878	The answer to the replica of my colleague Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22879	My colleague Vinkovic, I thought you were getting paid in town so you weren't supposed to depend on this salary. Otherwise, as for the rural development of the Regional Development Initiative, 6 billion kuna in the budget, but perhaps you did not report and prepare projects from your area, so you may not have come to Đakovo. There's a highway building up. As far as credit is concerned, credits are available to citizens in banks under certain conditions and I didn't say that our crisis started in America, it was taken out of context. I was talking about the general context. I would also like to say that bank recovery was made in 2000 and that banks were sold afterwards. If we're going back, but my idea was to calm down the debate rather than go back to what HDZ was doing, which SDP in the first phase, in the second phase, etc. As far as deficits are concerned, the deficit is being spent on what we've been saying all day today, something that cannot be avoided, means agreement, collective agreements, health reform, improvement of the situation in the judiciary, improvement of the situation in the Ministry of the Interior, and this is being spent on. So at this point, we couldn't avoid it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22880	Thank you very much. Replica Frano Matušić. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, exactly the colleague said that the budget was both developed and social, but she also said that it is evenly invested through this budget in all parts of Croatia, so she mentioned an example of Plot where there is really no concern about who is in the local self-government unit in the government or the town of Ploče where, of course, huge development is taking place, the construction of the container terminal, the cargo terminal, highways, connecting roads, so one big building swing. But I'd like to supplement with, say, Korčula where the SDP is also in power, so we're building what all the citizens of Korcula want for probably the last seventy, eighty years, we've been building a pool. So Vela Luka where you build sewers and sports halls and schools etc. But speaking of bank recovery, since I mentioned that term, I'm going to say that she sold the power of the SDPs to a certain... The Dubrovnik Bank fund for 185 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, at that time, the state of Croatia was obliged to pay back the same bank 520 million kuna in the next three years. So if it's not weird. I've already sent it to the state's attorney, etc. And I believe there's something going on. So, a bank sold for 185 million kuna and at the same time a bank with claims to the state of 520 million kuna. That's what you did in the SDP when you're talking about the Packing System, the best known former employees of the Dubrovnik Bank know what you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22882	The answer to the replica of my colleague Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22883	So here, when we talk about the investments and compatibility of local authorities with the state authorities, I can freely say here that it invests more in Ploče and in Korčula than in Dubrovnik. The reasons, Dubrovnik at the end of the road the last one arrives, the last one arrives and we Dubrovci are patient and waiting. So it has nothing to do with the compatibility of the government but simply the whole of Croatia is simply being treated, at least that's how I read it. As for the banks, it seems to me that this debate on banks, Mr. Leko started at least on my debate, I think that returning to the past is not leading us anywhere and could lead us to state attorneys and other situations that are currently not subject and we better get back to our budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22884	Thank you. Replica co-worker Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22885	My colleague Shuica spoke about how this budget is social security, so certain social rights, not only provide them at the existing level but also increase, and then said that insufficient funds can be compensated by budget rebalancing. You know, you're actually showing that you don't understand what a critical situation we're in, I think the Ministry couldn't have been able to raise money for wages this month, and all that's coming to us last year, so next year in the economy it's very questionable how the budget is going to be filled. So we're going to talk about how easily we're going to be second year, I don't know what, I guess we're going to have some extra money or we're going to distribute this out now. Comparing the budget with the stock market is also very irresponsible. It's not a stock market. The budget is the financial document to be adopted for the following year. And as far as these social rights are concerned, I'm just going to tell you that, for example, as far as national population policy is concerned, dear gentlemen, you haven't done anything in this year. Since there will be no funds in 2009 and all your deadlines were mostly in 2008, in 2009 and you set it for yourself. I'll just say it like this. There are no incentive measures for unemployed young parents or parents of children with special needs. There is no housing of young couples, no single regulation to regulate the family support system. I was just talking about it a little while ago. It is not provided for young couples and families with dependent children that they can get certain tax benefits and the rest will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22886	Thank you. Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22887	Well, here's a colleague of mine who says I don't understand what this is about. Maybe I don't understand how the budget is done because I think it's going to be rebalanced, so listen, we heard that the situation on the financial market is very variable and changes from moment to moment, which means we can expect the situation to change or that some items can be reprogrammed in some way. As far as this situation is concerned, you can see that the maternity benefits have been increased. You can see that the pension item has been increased. You can see that children's allowances have been increased, and as far as national policies are concerned right now, I don't have the numbers, but I don't believe that this has been taken into account especially from our ministry that we've been here in the opposition for years, if you remember, we've always pointed out that, and it's just us who have increased all those extras and all those maternity benefits that were at the time, now I have to mention, the coalition authorities have been reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22888	Replica, the esteemed colleague of Parliament, Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, as time goes by today, I have to say that it's actually not clear to me now what are we even discussing here today? And the situation is ridiculous and tragic at the same time. We're discussing a document that we're already here after the prime minister left this room, immediately went to the press and already gave changes to the parameters that will be tied up and somehow related to the final draft budget. You keep talking about the crisis, about the impact of the global crisis, about how this budget has to be because the crisis is what changes are in the markets and so on. You keep saying that this budget is therefore both social and developmental and harmonised. I could take your discussions from last year were identical and last year's budget, or this year's budget, was both social and developmental and harmonised. And in the meantime, throughout this year, you've been changing according to your own authority, the government has been changing budgets and redistributing funds inside. We're already here today, fellow Shuica you're saying the government will sort it out somehow, but I'm still giving, something to conclude. In fact, it turns out that from today to tomorrow, the government is going to change, spill, take funds from one item, put into another, a colleague just like that from hollow to empty. So see if you can get information on what was done on this year's rebalancing, what was done on redistributions a month ago. You're talking about the development budget. So give your colleagues to Shuica look at the items, just take items of the Development and Employment Fund or the Rural Development Fund or the Employment Office data, the part that applies to active employment policies. Come on, please, maybe I don't see it, show me in that budget how and how these funds are, so that deficit in, how are they being channeled into development projects? Where's that in this budget? Either we're talking or you have some different numbers. Because these figures here say that this is a budget of consumption and a budget that goes to meet local elections in a few months. It's... /The speaker's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22890	The answer to the replica of the representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22891	My colleagues depend, it depends on what you're developing to mean. And by developing, we mean other than what you've been talking about all the infrastructure projects. Under development, we mean incentives in the economy, incentives that, where climates are created and conditions for employment that you're talking about. And that's what this is about, not what you wanted me to do now, impute that the government is going to change with rebalancing and so on. There is the Law on Budget Implementation, the Law on Budget Implementation says everything and according to it will change, and also in accordance with the situation does not mean that in half a year there will be no budget rebalancing, which is normal and because I initially said because it is not the Holy Scriptures budget. It is also variable according to the situation and this crisis in which we have found ourselves not in Croatia but in the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22892	Thank you very much. A fellow representative, Zvonimir Mršić, also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22893	Dear Vice President, dear ministers and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. When I get the budget and during today's debate, I get one question whether or not we are in a crisis at all. Did the crisis really come to Croatia, and if so, do we have an answer to these questions in this basic economic policy documents next year? So we have an answer to the question of what the crisis is, where it came from, what it all had a negative impact on because the crisis has a negative impact and what instruments that will enable us to stop further strengthening, further strengthening the crisis in the coming year, and possibly opening a new development cycle from the crisis, which would be good. But at least let's stop in the next year and cover it up, stop the crisis from going on. Since this budget is by no means different from the 2007 budget, the 2008 budget, except here and there by some index, is not according to the proposal for this budget of the crisis in Croatia. Or this budget ignores the crisis. Or he says, "There's a crisis, but we're not going to say in this budget what's going on with this crisis, and we're not going to give answers to how this crisis is going to go, but we're going to do it with rebalances, or like someone said by reprogramming the budget." Some of them called for some of the world's stock indices. They may suggest we put our budget on the market, too, and see if anyone buys it and how it quotes. But things are much more serious than how someone here wants to say that budget rebalance can get rid of some things, because then there's no need to make a budget. Then let's get something right away, and let's say it's going to be a rebalance, and I think this budget will have a rebalance before it's passed because we already have an amendment announcement. We don't have in Parliament, we don't know that it's going to shrink by a billion and 700 million kuna for health care, but all the newspapers write about it, all the media talk about it. But the prime minister told the press when he left the hall, and he didn't need to tell us here in the hall. Now my question is. If we're in a crisis, how many people are gonna be out of a job next year? On a council board, one government official said between 100 and 150000 are expected. Is that a number? Is there another number that's talking about it? How many new jobs are to be opened? How many new jobs will be opened next year and whether we will be able to substitute the number of jobs that will run out of work. Every day in the media, we see what Sarkozy is doing, what Mrs. Merkel is doing, what Brown is doing, and they're meeting with each other, and they're meeting with their industrialists, and they're talking about it, and they're bringing in a recovery plan, and they're bringing in some other plans. We know exactly today when we would conduct a survey in the Parliament which Germany's industry will be saving next year. We know which industry will be saved by France next year. We know what the UK will do next year to prevent the crisis. But I can assure you that if we conducted the survey so that we did not know the answer to the question of what Croatia will do next year to prevent the crisis, the deepening of the crisis, and what it will do to get out of this crisis. Instead of or with this economic advice formed by the Prime Minister to meet with the great employers, to meet with the craftsmen, to meet with the mayors and commissioners who requested a meeting with the prime minister before this budget was adopted. Because this budget has a significant and strong impact on local self-government. He didn't need to meet them. We don't know what difficulties our economy is in right now. Especially from that small economy which is export-oriented, which is cancelled by orders and which are located before people are fired already this year, let alone in the following year. We don't know that, because if we did, then probably a different budget would be. You'd be the least different in the division of the Ministry of Economy than I talked about in one of the previous replicas. It would not reduce the items for increasing the competitiveness of entrepreneurship, for retraining and additional education of craftsmen, and would increase the items for the purchase of vehicles. The same situation is with the Ministry of Agriculture. For agriculture, less is foreseen, and for the ministry more. 250 people in the agriculture ministry are scheduled to be employed, but farmers will not be employed there. Someone else will be working at the ministry. This year we had over six billion kuna for the village. But we also had about 30% more valuable food imports and about 2,2 and a half percent more natural food imports in Croatia. This budget had to answer the question of how much we will reduce food imports to Croatia next year. For the reason that our incentive measures will result in so much food production in Croatia. That's one thing. And secondly, we'll take out all the trash that's on the shelves of Croatian shopping malls. Because inspections don't do their job from quality to decoration. And if they were to do inspections of their work today, 20% of the food goods imported would, above all, be thrown off the shelves especially now before the holidays because they do not meet Croatian food quality standards. Maybe then our producers would have been easier to come to those shelves, because shopping malls are asking you to pay for a meter of shelves. But we also have to have an answer in this budget. We had to answer that question in this budget. So how much less food will be introduced, and how much more food will be produced in Croatia. We know today what Germany will do next year to encourage citizens to invest in rebuilding their houses and apartments in order to stop the collapse of the construction industry then give tax relief to it. We have no announcement in Croatia for next year which would motivate citizens to work more or more, that what they have money is reinvested in Croatia to save the domestic industry and to raise taxes. In addition to our commendable action of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, let us purchase Croatian products. And I hope that we all have here today in this assembly hall of departments produced in Croatia, ties produced in Croatia, shirts produced in Croatia, underwear in Croatia and shoes in Croatia, because that is how we save jobs in Croatia. Unfortunately, this budget remains a step of non-transparency, since, unfortunately, items that are transparent are being reduced, and items that have political discretion such as the item of the Regional Development Fund are increasing there. Now something about local projects and the Peljesca Bridge. I'm about to build a bridge for Peljesac. I did, but I'm also about to build a fast road towards Koprivnica, and I'm not about what the Prime Minister said today to be patient for another year, so maybe the highway will be built. Build us a fast road so add another tape, and don't delay us fast road again, because we've had enough promises from the government that next spring will start building a fast road from Gradec towards Križevci and Koprivnica and Bjelovar, because it's been 4 winters, 4 autumns and 4 springs since then. This year was a felony, so we thought that at least a criminal spring would be, but even a criminal spring didn't start to build the road. Second, what about the sub-level highway? On 20 June 2006, a cabinet meeting was held in Koprivnica, where it was said that the sub-level highway was the first priority because it became the road of death. Almost every day there are heavy car accidents and there are a large number of unfortunately dead this year on it. It is only this year that the project is completed... which began in 2003 and will not be completed this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is just about expanding the road through the settlements, not making a profile of a fast road outside the settlement. What about the railroad? Well, we gave up the railroad. Instead of being an accelerant of growth, we are going to reduce this year, or the next one to... speed at 40 kilometers and instead of driving faster and faster goods going to Rijeka and back, we'll be driving slower, less cars and less trains will be able to go in one direction and in another. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the crafts school in Koprivnica? It was promised to be built from the state budget next year. It's not in the state budget. What about all these local projects? I am in favour of really developing Croatia evenly, but you will forgive me, there is no answer to these questions and if it is true that they are not in the state budget, then I cannot talk about that the budget is such that Croatia can regionally develop. Unfortunately, our county has been reduced funds from the Regional Development Fund as one of the few, our county has been reduced and the amount for water supply is one of the few and we still expect a water supply development programme to be implemented in our county by 2012, which is now about a quarter late in the third year of its implementation. Therefore, if we want to have some support and if we want to have an understanding of this budget, then first of all we need to put enough time to read it together and talk about it, rather than trying to convince us that it is like this or that because for me at least it does not answer any of these questions that I have asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22894	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to the quote. Dear fellow MP Davor Huška first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22895	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Mršić, who said this budget should have provided an answer to how much less imported food will be in 2009. This response is neither theoretically nor practically visible in the budget because the budget does not contain such data, but is elsewhere. And when we talk about encouraging the economy, I'd like to know how much and in what way does the town of Koprivnica encourage the economy, small entrepreneurs? Here, I'll give you an example of a colleague because I know you're the head of the city as well as I am. In my town of Pakrac, investors in manufacturing economics don't pay a utility contribution. So they're paying a zero rate of communal contribution. Parts of the municipal fee have also been released. And how much of the interest of his colleagues in the economy is evident from his presence at the meetings of the Committee on Economy where he has hardly twenty percent attended the meetings of the economy here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22896	Thank you. Reputed colleague Nevenka Marinović, rectification of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22897	Thank you. It is an incorrect quote from Mršić, when he said that the funds do not go to agricultural production, but go to the opening of new jobs, i.e. to the administration. It is true that, despite budgetary constraints due to the strategic importance of agriculture, especially in times of global crises such as this one, a less-than-annual trend in the growth of the agricultural budget has continued. And the most important items in the budget relate precisely to direct support for agriculture, which, in the 2009 draft budget plan, account for slightly more than half of the ministry's total budget, means 52.7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22898	Thank you. Three replications. First of all, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would agree with my colleague Mršić in many ways except in the part where he talks about investing in the regions, I am speaking here in Koprivnica-Kristevci County, the town of Koprivnica, but clearly I will not say that he has forgotten, everyone is talking about his end, that this relationship is even worse compared to this east of Croatia. Furthermore, he talked about the action of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, "Let's Buy Croatian". In fact, Mr. Mršić the slogan should be called "Bought packed in Croatia" because this is a suit called "Kamensko Zagreb", "KA ZA", and it says here that "Englo Saxon Merino", so the fabric is English and sewn in Kamenski. Furthermore, when you enter the Ledo Ark, then you will be able to take the pea imported from Hungary, but packed by Ledo, you can also take the carrot frozen there, it is from Poland. Also Podravka, Podravka is packing imported goods from Hungary. Therefore, the action "Let's Buy Croatian" is not a "Bought Croatian" action, but a "Bought Packed in Croatia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22900	Thank you. Replica response, representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22901	Well above all, here is one of the joint projects that I think would mean the development of the entire continental part of Croatia is certainly Podravska highway, unfortunately the road is built across Croatia, none of the long-term and Podravska highways that would connect Varazdin, Koprivnica, Đurđevac, Virovitica, Nasice, Osijek, Vukovar, Ilock is a road that would strongly mark the development of this end, especially since it would also mark the possibility of supplying raw materials to industrial processors that we have in that area, through these vegetable cultures to Koprivnica, sugar tails to Virovitica and to Osijek, not that sugartails are driven in the mountains on unlit roads where pedestrians and cyclists on those roads suffer. But obviously, for the whole continental part or sub-level part, therefore, the whole part with Drava is not sufficiently understood, although it is in this part of Croatia that the industry is rarely preserved. We don't have in some other parts of the industry. There we managed to preserve it, there were no tycoons to kidnap it, and we have no road to simply connect it and then, not only have we packed Croatian, but that we have in that bag and produced in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22902	Replica, colleague of Biljana Borzana. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22903	Thank you, Mr. President. Now I should be in the spirit of this which, as the HDZ colleagues replicate, should touch each other with the clever and realistic debate of my colleague Mršić, I will not do so even though I agree with every word he has said. Namely, the debates on this side of the assembly were quite, that is, excessively, I would say optimistic and in this sense unreal on the ground and reality, but Mršić was in one way overly optimistic, which is when he mentioned that this budget does not show how much food imports will be reduced, or how much food production will increase. I don't know why to move from such an assumption at all when, despite the constant saying that Croatia can produce its own food in terms of grain, green, blue Croatia and so on, we have a frenzy import. So persistent denial of what's in public, which is really happening. As far as this is concerned, the remarks on the unbalanced development of Mrs. Shuica spoke of even development, even if that were the case, it simply wasn't enough. Some parts of Croatia are far poorer and far greater amount of money they need for help and in that sense I am sure that this budget will not do anything, I will now look back on Slavonia in terms of some improvement that Slavonia will still have 20% less salary, that far less GDP, that far more or at best equal citizens of Slavonia will feel rejected by, and simply forgotten by this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22904	Then it will continue to sing "Intitious Slavonia". We do. Answer. [[Intruder: Well, colleagues of Biljana I do not expect therefore]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22905	To budget to answer some questions or to solve some problems for us. We in Koprivnica have also invested the last 7 years 63 million kuna in entrepreneurship zones. We're not so lucky, we didn't get a metre of state land. We didn't even get a shovel from the country for free. We had to buy every square of land. We had to build all the infrastructure. 531 workers are currently working in our business areas. Next year we expect an investment of 250 million kuna and a new 250 jobs and next year we expect to build new brewery capacities worth 30 million kunas where an additional 31 jobs will be opened and Koprivnica after Hartman increases its capacity by 100% will be the largest industrial city in Croatia with an entrepreneurial zone to employ around 1500 jobs. It would be much easier for the state to assign us at least a military office in that military headquarters, to establish a university, and that universities can build and create new jobs with that knowledge. But here we are waiting for at least one shovel of land to be assigned not to sit down but to work, to buy, to create conditions and to open new jobs in the entrepreneurial zone. And we are the city that has the largest drop in the number of unemployed or the largest drop in the number of unemployed in Croatia in the first nine months of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22906	Replica, colleague Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mršić that the government could answer your questions first should determine the causes of the crisis in Croatia and recognise them. And since she didn't want it, she couldn't or didn't know the budget she put together with the padded paths. The structure of the budget continues to be unproductive, unproductive, money consumption and the budget function has been neglected when it was intended to stimulate branches or businesses or the economy affected by the financial crisis outside or the companies could export. So your optimism for answers can save you when you ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22908	We are moving forward with the debate of the distinguished colleague, Agent Arsen Bauk. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22909	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. You don't have to get too excited about this debate, about this budget. Why? Because we don't actually bring in the budget but only the initial basis for further re-uses within these items that we bring in. And that's why you don't have to get too excited. You don't have to get too excited about it because it probably won't look the same tomorrow. On Monday, when we discuss the government's amendments, it certainly won't look the same. That's why I'm not optimistic or pessimistic in this case. I'm a little indifferent because I don't believe that this government can make a much better difference. We'll certainly have rebalancing after the local elections. By then, they'll still try to hold on to some tension so that something can be done and then they're going, of course, to these real restrictions that we've been waiting for. I'm also indifferent to the amendments. Last year, I personally filed 14 of them. At that time, none of them were adopted, and then most of them in the re-purpose actually showed exactly what I was saying and the minister, he was mostly Minister Calmeta, explaining to me that the analysis showed that I shouldn't. In the end, it turned out to be the right thing to do again. For example, for subsidising shipping lines, I proposed an increase of 30 million kuna in the third month. In the end, the repurpose we received the other day on the bench increased by 60 million kuna, which would be very logical to expect because the fuel was expensive in the 3rd month, and after that it added. So in this budget, and many people wanted this budget to be a crisis, but in the sense that it provides answers to how to get out of the crisis, you can't see it in this budget. And that's why I wouldn't call this budget a crisis, I'd call it a slippery one. Because there's always some skating coming in, this health deficit, this pay deficit, and then the redundancies really are this sliding budget and the question is, is it going to cancel the budget or is it going to slip away in some way our economy? What's reduced? The position of the Ministry of the Sea or reduced from 10 and a half billion in 2007 to 8.2 billion in 2008 to 7.9 billion in 2009. So you'd actually change your excuse a little bit. I would no longer call it the Ministry of the Sea but the Ministry of the "moral" because what happens in the first part of the budget that speaks for the islands is actually worse than the worst nightmare we could imagine. So construction and maintenance of the port, port sub-building in ports of state importance from 57 to 20 million kuna. Connecting the island to the mainland and mutually less for 25 million kuna. The restoration of the Adriatic passenger fleet is lower by 10 million kuna. I'd just stop there. We're expected, we're expected for concessions for the ship's lines. And now we have two, two variants. Either we call a tender now so Jadrolinia will be with the old ships or we will call a competition in a year, two, and the foreigners will come and they will be with new ships. Most of the time, it's gonna be... these strangers or Jadrolini. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The islands won't be. And, of course, the development of the island and the coast is minus 107 million kuna. So here we were able to get a three-digit number. To finish up colleagues and colleagues, some say this budget is developed and social. I agree with them in part, but in both terms, I would change one letter. This budget further separates the islands from the mainland and therefore is not developed but separated and this budget prevents any better communication of the island with the mainland and I would not call it social but social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22910	Thank you. We have reported four replicas. First of all, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, he's also separated for Slavonia, not just for the islands. But I wanted to look more at your claim that this is a temporary or sliding budget. I've heard here today from this side of the ruling world stock exchanges nonstop indices are moving. It would be best if it wasn't installed here down Jones or crobex so that we follow it and then form the budget, and we're constantly in some sort of emergency about how we're going to fix the budget, and the ink as it says on this budget hasn't even dried up yet, but we have amendments to the government and changes in, and who knows what's waiting for us by Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22912	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Bauk's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22913	Thank you. Mr. Grubisic, the current public defenders of any state, including the state of the budget, were three. It's Racan's government, George Bush and Milan Bandic, and today we've learned it's both unions and who knows who else in the year won't be guilty, only this government will remain innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22914	Thank you very much. The next replica, distinguished counterpart, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22915	You're asking a colleague whether the budget is a crisis or a slip, and it could really be asked if he's sliding? As long as the budget is a crisis, the state's money slips. Therefore, the problem is not only on the income and expenditure side, but the problem is the biggest almost why is there nothing that needs to be in the state budget? Why isn't there any funds that have been collected, because they're not even collected from an excavation of technical, so-called technical. The technical material which is owned by the owner of the Republic of Croatia buys, digs up large, actually all buildings, and on its own skyscrapers, other buildings, roads which individual companies, which work for the state of these buildings, do not return that material to the state, but sell it to it, and then the state instead of earning double losses, and it is millions and millions. What about those famous loans? Second, revenue from concessions is 2.6% paid, i.e. the concession fee is for concessions and is paid for the profit achieved. It's nowhere in Europe. So that's where the money slips too. Everywhere in Europe is 6%, up to 6% per cubic metre of excavated material, and not after the profits are achieved, and that's where we're supposed to change that system, that's where the huge, huge millions slide. And that's why, here's why I end up replicating you as you did, whether it's separated or developed. It cannot be developed as long as you separate people who have to pay for everything, those tiny craftsmen while on the other hand we allow those who do business with the state to collect and what they've dug up, and what belongs to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22916	The next replica, a distinguished colleague of MPs, Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22917	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This budget is definitely not a crisis, although it would be good if it were a crisis, because the government would admit that it recognizes the moment we are in and is preparing for what we are coming up with. By contrast, the government behaves like a man standing at the bottom of a mountain, and from the top is rolling a snowball, and he waits and thinks or won't run me over, or if he runs me over, I'll get up and shake off the snow, even though the ball is a heavy ton or two. So the reality is completely denied, and now that we have time to prepare for what we know is coming, because it simply cannot bypass us, the government simply does not use that possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22918	Thank you very much. And the last replica, distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were talking to your colleague Bauk about the means that were meant to improve life on the islands. So here's everything else that describes the budget, I'll show you one game of numbers and letters. In 2008, 15 million were planned in the budget... thousands of kunas to improve health care on the islands, and then at that semi-secret cabinet session, the item was redistributed and abolished by 8 million kunas 200 thousand, so that the 2009 budget would now state that the amount is increasing by 200% as it amounts to 15 million 412 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means if everything was okay that 30 million kuna should be spent in two years, and in the best case scenario, half that amount will be spent. Here's a game of numbers and letters that shows how much you think about health care on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22920	Okay. There's no response to the replica. It means you agree. But that's why he's got new applications to discuss. Dear fellow MP Krešo Gulić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22921	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, there's a lot that's been said tonight, and I'm just going to say here in a few words, here's to commenting on this draft budget of ours. It has been said that some parts have been neglected in development. I can't agree with that because when you look at the 2004 budget, so this one's for 2009 I think it's doubled as far as regional development is concerned. And when we talk about regional development, we also have to say that out of 550 cities and municipalities in our country, we have 214 units of local self-government from municipalities and cities that have special national concerns or are mountainous mountain areas. We also have to say that for these areas of profit tax returns, the revenues of municipalities and cities are, and thus the state gives up about 350 million kuna, and also the return on taxes per year's application because about 550 million kuna is also denied from that title. It means that these areas, and unfortunately some have probably been killed, are not forgotten by the Croatian government. It was mentioned here, and we were compared to some of our neighbors, that their fuel is cheaper, as it is more expensive for us. We're repeating ourselves again, and we're aware of that, and we're aware of that fuel, we know that the kuna and 20 excise duties were introduced during your government, we accepted it for the construction of the highway, so we haven't changed. I think it's good, but you don't have to keep telling us that fuel in Slovenia is cheaper for kuna. It's more expensive because we're building highways and that's why it's more expensive for these kunas and 20 than it is for Slovenia. When we talk about our neighbors, we have to admit and say finally yes, I think we're all aware of that. We had a war, unfortunately, that cost us, that we don't say that every year mailing us direct or indirect damage is about a few billion kunas, and if we were to add up all these tens or I don't know for 13 years then it would certainly be one state budget of about 100 and some billion kuna, surely that the economic situation in Croatia would be much different if that war hadn't unfortunately been. So I'm going to say as head of local self-government, I think we have some things to do in our next year's budgets. Maybe we shouldn't stand out so much for football clubs, maybe we'll plant less flowers somewhere, maybe some street less oversold and so forth. I think it can be done if the government has shown this proposal to go to some savings. And what's most important, and here I've seen in the draft budget, for important infrastructure facilities such as water supply and disposal, the funds are a little reduced, they're not halved, they're about 10, 20%, and most importantly I believe that these projects will continue to go their course as planned. And I also have to say that we who are in these municipalities and cities often nominate a lot of projects for which we don't have construction permits or project documentation to finish it. Here, so I don't owe too much. I think this draft budget is realistic and I hope that the situation will certainly be much better after six months and that we will certainly increase the funds with a rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22922	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, A fellow representative, Mršić, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22923	So you see me wonders some things now you say that you nominate projects that don't even have a building permit and get money for it. I nominate a project that has a building permit so I don't get the money for it. I'm surprised at that. But there is a document called the Government of the Republic of Croatia Programme for the term of office in 2008, 2011. The document makes it very clear that 25% of the funds will be raised to support the balance in 2009. So this is the document with which the Government came before this Parliament to seek our trust. If not, and it is obvious that there is nothing in the budget and that there is no budget for increasing decentralised funds, which is also the document called the Government Programme. And in this budget, there is no increase in funding for the county road administrations, but we are offered to raise compensation for the use of county roads, so that we have more money. Well, that's what we used to do ourselves. Therefore, if this budget has given up on the Government Programme, then the Government should come out here and say, gentlemen, we were just joking. The government's 2008 programme goes to recycling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22924	Well, my colleague Mršić disagreed with you. I didn't say yes, I said that some units of local self-government don't have solved project documentation, so I can't get the funds. All those who had resolved project documentation for infrastructure projects also received funding. And as far as I'm concerned, most of them did. I know in my environment and who are not from the HDZ municipality they have also received funds for sewage, water, and for the construction of schools, kindergartens and roads etc. No, I don't. No, I don't. They got the ones they didn't. So I don't agree with that. And this draft budget shows that the funds planned to build the infrastructure are down by maybe 10, 20% but are planned, and I believe it will be in the proposal and realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22925	Thank you very much. Tatijana Šimac Bonačić also came forward for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, since it's been a long time and we're all tired and we're all getting less and less, I'm going to try to make this discussion as much shorter as possible, because this budget has been developed or social, which is giving answers how to deal with the coming crisis, I think we've said everything tonight on this side of ours. However, I would actually like to make a special emphasis and want two basic objections that are particularly visible if the overall budgetary position of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County is seen. It is one thing not to worry about even regional development, that for years there have been inequalities, that is to say, I would like certain micro-regions not only to lag behind in the short term, but not to create basic conditions for future growth. I think that to invest insufficiently in capital infrastructure, and when there are investments, then priorities are wrong. The second is that the re realisation of each individual project, when there is enough planned money in the budget for it, will again depend on the will of the executive authority and on its assessment of the similarity of the government in each local self-government. Although we have heard different grades tonight, it has been mentioned often that I am glad that the city of Ploče and investment was mentioned, and I think it is because of the good, or capable SDP authorities in Plots that cannot be obstructed in their projects. For example, although it can be said that the means for individual intentions are planned according to previous experiences. Some projects will simply not be monitored when they are located where at local level at the opposition's power, with more than a year of local elections. We believe that again this will not find projects such as the school in Veli Luka, the necessary second port in the ferry port Sobra on the island of Mljet, solving the water supply of the island of Mljet, then the intervention heliodroms, etc. Let's not talk about Dubrovnik. I haven't seen her anywhere in the budget, although the mayor of Dubrovnik said she was satisfied, but I'm not surprised she's happy just because she belongs to a party in power. However, there is no dormitory, although it is signed between the ministry, i.e. the government, the city and the county, then there is no pool on the island of Korcula, there is no second phase of school on the island of Korcula, there are no other projects that were actually to be found in this budget. I hope, in fact, that within the planned budget sizes, real realisation that they will experience projects that have had priority for a long time and that are being advocated by the local community itself, and not that they always redistribute by political similarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22927	Thank you very much, colleague. There's no correction, no replica. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague, Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm also not going to talk about whether this budget is real, social. What I can say when it comes to Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County, it is limiting and nothing better than last year. In my debate, I will look very briefly at a few important things for the end from which I come, primarily at Sibenik and Kninska Hospital and their functioning after the separation. First of all, a few words about the hospital Croatian Pride in Knin. The plan is that this hospital develops in several directions. One is increasing and improving the extended treatment department that would be practical for the whole of Dalmatia. Problems other than natural direct finance i.e. the limit that needs to be increased to 3 million and 300,000 kuna remains two issues, which are the contract with the HZZO or the definition of the price of services at extended treatment. Or a step further, the delimitation of extended treatment, hospice and semi-intense care. Because what the hospital is doing now is not prolonged treatment but semi-intense treatment for him and hospice and less prolonged treatment. There is no standard for this kind of therapy and care, those categories are not the same and don't cost the same. The ministry's task must be to make standards in agreement with the profession. The second question is the problem with the frame. Namely, the ministry should find a way to make part of the apartments available to the city for human needs. It's one of the ways to attract the ability to come to Knin. The second direction is to strengthen the quality, very little and quantity of acute departments, so internal, paediatric, gynaecology with maternity and surgery with support for all departments by intensive treatment units. That's why the hospital has a contract with HZO again and a problem of staff. Here is an additional strengthening of the diagnostics i.e. laboratory and radiology where the device is urgently needed to be restored. Diagnostics serves the needs of the House of Health Knin not only for the needs of the hospital. And the third direction is physical medicine or putting into operation a large hydrotract, swimming pool and hydromassage plant that is not in operation. If this is possible, it automatically assists the extended treatment department, the acute departments and opens a new aspect of rehabilitation for the entire county and beyond. Of course, it is also possible to arrange such beds with HZZO. The problems are the same, the financials and the cadres. As far as the Sibenik hospital is concerned, there is a problem with outdated equipment. The Sibenik hospital is the only one that bought the CT device from its own resources back in 2002 and has already become obsolete, urgently needs a new CT and gamma cameras for nuclear medicine. After the reconstruction of critical departments, the situation was temporarily resolved. However, the need remains to build a new modern hospital. Sibenik is a tourist town. Unfortunately, I could literally repeat my debate from last year. 12 expert workers are missing, the centre is doing work in inadequate space, pre-prepared shops for the construction of the new centre are not built, and that is that the town of Sibenik presents adequate building land to the Ministry of Health to start building a new centre. Sibenik unfortunately did not take the opportunity to build a centre for the World Bank's rent precisely for these reasons while I have to compare that the town of Koprivnica has done all the necessary activities including construction over a year. Furthermore, the most important development projects for Sibenik and Sibenik County are to complete the construction of a fast road in Sibenik-Drnis-Knin with the BiH border. This road connecting Sibenik as the county centre with the two largest settlements in the hinterland represents the backbone of the transport connection between the county and the necessary precondition for economic and demographic recovery and development of the area of special state care in the hinterland of Sibenik. Then, the B59 road section connects the Adriatic highway with the highway from Pirovac exit to the Adriatic highway. Part of this road from the business zone Stankovci to the Adriatic highway should be reconstructed urgently. The section of that road extends within 20 kilometers and is one of the most dangerous sections of the road in Dalmatia. On that road move, several people lose their lives each year in car accidents. The problem is that there are hundreds of trucks a day. In order to do a good job, the stock of that road needs to be rescheduled or even to create a new stock, avoiding two populated places in the municipality of Tisno through which that road passes. That's Dubrava at Tisn and Daslin's. How this road combination with the Sibenik Riviera from Vodice went through thousands of cars here until Drago in the summer, endangering their lives and other people's lives. It is particularly interesting that part of the road passing through the municipality of Stankovce, so Zadar County is reconstructed and part belonging to Sibenik County which passes through the municipality of Tisno is not. Then, connecting the entrepreneurial zone... with highway A1 Split-Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a necessary step if we want to seriously activate business activities in the area of the industrial zone. It is necessary for Povi and the highway to be connected to the loop that would be located next to the industrial zone itself. Furthermore, the restoration of St. Nicholas' fortress, the organization of the Sub-sea Archaeological Museum, is of paramount importance for strengthening the cultural and tourist offer of Sibenik, as well as the preservation and revitalisation of this unique fortification. Furthermore, it would list the construction of a water network in the areas of Knin, Ervenik and Kistanj, more than 40% of households in this area do not have water from the water supply. So, I'd like to conclude. With little money in Sibenik County can be done much to raise the quality of life, primarily the opening of hospices in the space of Knin hospital which activates dead capital. And secondly, with the construction of two roads, we activate two large zones that will not only extend the tourist season but also provide new jobs. So, with a little money you can do a lot and finally activate the potentials of Sibenik-Knin County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22929	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22930	Dear President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'm going to be very pragmatic, and I don't think I'm going to be more than three. But the budget is all said and clearly that we are in a situation where the situation is not good is that it is practically daily subject to the whole situation of change. So here we expect on Monday the government's amendment whether the budget will be such a deficit, such a deficit, but obviously when we reach the deficit situation is not good. However, I would point out about the specific planning under certain items within the budget, and firstly, I would like to hold on to one of the problems that they have within the items of the State Protection and Rescue Authority, i.e. the fire and planning of items for the following year. I must immediately say that in this discussion, I am not asking for more resources since I am aware of the situation, and I am glad that there is a minister here to hear what I am about to say. The summer fire season is under the programme to implement specific fire protection measures and there is a item in the national budget and planned funds for 2008. In 2008, 40 million kunas were spent, i.e. 40 million kuna, and now planned for 2009 were planned for the amount of 23 million kuna and 57% of the funds needed this year. Since next year is planned on time, i.e. the summer fire season to which the measure programme applies and in which firefighters and fire departments from all over Croatia participate, not only from the shores, since the system has been developed for the summer fire season. Planning and real needs have been approached at some point over 40, 45 million kuna. Given the situation and the government's guidance to cut costs, we've come to an actual figure that would be needed for the next fire season, which is 35 million kuna. These are planned real resources reduced as much as possible. However, 23m kuna is planned for this year's budget. Also, I am aware that in this year and last year we received answers when the smaller funds were planned that the rebalance would be rebalanced over the year if the funds would be necessary. However, in this year of these 40 million kunas, the current units are mostly voluntary fire companies, public units, or fire departments, demand, or expect the costs they made in the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth months of 8 million, of over 8 million kuna, and this debt is currently standing, and we expect that this debt will be reconciled, and we also expect that, realistically, funds are planned for the next year, i.e. 35 million kuna. Because if there is no question about it and such a way of planning the means can directly endanger the summer fire season. Therefore, I think they are responsible who are in charge of the team, i.e. the points of the budget, i.e. those who are the bearers of each measure. In this case, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue provides unreal planning within the budget of 23 million kuna. There he is. With this message, expecting that the debt from this year will be resolved as soon as possible by the end of the year, because here is the year and calendar and fiscal is at the end. I expect these funds to be realistically planned and put into the budget next year. I note, the funds have already been reduced compared to the real needs and the planned funds compared to spent this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22931	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Special Agent Kozlevac, who's been asleep for six minutes and you can serve as a role model for the rest of us. I hope so. It's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22932	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Prime Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I must say that I agree with all my predecessors on this side of the assembly who believe that this budget is neither its contents nor its concept corresponds to the current economic moment in which this country is located. I agree with all those who feel that the budget is absolutely not an answer to the crisis. To have a budget in the same model as if we're blooming roses really socially and politically irresponsible and unacceptable. I don't think there's a big problem with the deficit we're going to have. We will spend again what we have not earned. Of course, it's not the end of the world. It is a Croatian specificum, but it is certainly not a disaster. The question is, what are we gonna spend that money on? For regional development we obviously won't, for the growth of the economy we obviously won't, for entrepreneurship we obviously won't. I don't know about health reform, as far as I know, the minister was already out of 2 billion kuna, and on the other hand, it's not the right to reform because you've only found a way to patch up the holes and patch up the resources in the system with extra burden on workers. It is not good that this money will be spent on a state administration that has truly hypertrophyd and increased in the past five years. And I have to admit, too, that I don't understand this schizophrenic situation that's been going on lately. On the one hand, everything is denied, and then there is panic. Here says the prime minister of drastic and rapid change in the world economy. Like he didn't know what was going on in the world. The dramatic conditions of the global crisis. The minister says Croatia has never been in a situation like this. It really sounds cataclysmic, so it's amazing when another colleague Markovanovic tells his colleague Maras to spread pessimism. Well, my colleague Maras didn't say we were in a banana. That's what the Prime Minister told us. So if he says so, then it's really a question of what's waiting for us. The truth and God, he thinks one thing, he talks the other, and the third one works, so you never really know. There's no doubt that this recession was both expected and predictable at least for those who have already surfaced, I'd say follow-up economic developments. Its indications have also appeared systematically for years, and its causes have been well spoken of in international circles, and it has been well prepared by the countries. It's inconclusive to deny, of course, the fact that the world is in recession. It will have a certain impact on the Croatian economy, but the question is how are we as a state, how have you prepared yourself as a government for the possible consequences of the crisis. And the question arises, or says the prime minister this morning, says he said "we have prepared well for the crisis". I don't really see how we prepared to help the wood industry, what we did to keep the workers off the streets. What we did for the metal industry is really not seen from this budget. And I don't know maybe we can be comforted by the fact that I will now be a little cynical that farmers will not be left without orders and without customers for their products, because Croatian exports of agricultural products are ridiculous and insignificant and not only not to export. We are not in a state of system policy in agriculture to feed our own population. To make things worse, I can't compete on the domestic market either because she's cute, so she's cute, but on the other hand, and she's hypocritical and unsuspecting, let's buy a Croatian message because we can really ask ourselves and what we have more in Croatia and who we even have this message for in the first place. Those who have everything, which they have acquired mostly by importing, have long stopped buying Croatian and holiday in Croatia and wintering in Croatia and saving money in Croatia. I guess those who can barely make ends meet should be buying Croatian, which is 40% more expensive than the import anyway. What is the impact of the external factors on what is happening to us. I believe those who say that it is exactly proportional to the degree and percentage of Croatia's participation in the world economy, and this participation is actually minor and almost insignificant. The crisis has started in a financial sector in which Croatia does not represent any important factor in the global financial scale and its financial sector is, in fact, the levels of a slightly higher exposure of large banking systems owned by so-called so-called banks. Croatian banks. While in the real sector, therefore, the new value-making sector, unfortunately Croatia does not represent a country where the sector was significant by the number of employees, either by economic potential. And it's not our problem, the global crisis, but that we have absolutely no economic development policy. We have strategies, we have visions, we have ideas, but today, unfortunately, for no branch of the Croatian economy, we cannot clearly say clearly in five sentences what Croatia wants to develop and what mechanisms it will do and how it will measure what it will do. The fact that we do not have an industrial policy in Croatia, that we do not have a agricultural policy, we have replaced the technical technology policy of society with politics in the economy according to the old principle of holding water until the masters leave, and Croatia is said to be a commentator, and over-indebted and sold out and import-dependent and productively abandoned country. And it should be honest and said that these are the causes of the economic crisis in Croatia. What is the answer to this budget for Croatia and the public? Well, the answer would be expected to contain two to three necessary objectives of macroeconomic policy in which it would be clearly identified where we are and where we are going, but of course there is no answer to the crisis in this budget. At the end of the crisis may touch Croatia's edge, the world may come out of recession faster than forecasting, but all this does not mean that Croatia is on the right track. What is the reason and I end up with, what is the reason for panic is not the fact that there is a crisis, but the fact that it has not happened by chance you gentlemen would continue as the old one, and it is even more devastating that now that there has been a crisis, you are going on and on the old one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22933	Thank you very much, ma'am, and thank you for your time savings, too. It's Mrs. Maria Lugaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22934	Your Honor, Mr. President, I've been thinking about giving up this debate, but I've decided to say just a few sentences. What is the point, I think, is the question to you too, Mr. President and Mr. Minister, and to all of us, what is the purpose of the debate here in the Budget Committee. Nor does the government care what MPs have to say on this or on the side, whatever we decide here, whatever we propose here will be at the end of what the government wants. And that wouldn't be such a problem right now if the government knew what they wanted. Neither does the government know what they want nor knows what they won't do, and it seems to me that in some way it exists for itself. On the other hand, I'm a little surprised that there was a strange little debate today on the budget of science and education, and we've mostly talked to you all these years now that we're a country of knowledge, and now we've given up and on only two examples I'm going to show you that what was planned to do in the field of science and education, which I think we can only agree on long-term can run the economy and development is actually on very flimsy feet and has absolutely nothing to do with reality. As the Croatian Parliament of the Spring, we brought in pedagogical standards according to the government's plan and it was written in these pedagogical standards, for basic education it was necessary in 2009 to secure in the budget 546 million 588 thousand and 435 kuna. For secondary school this year, in the next year of 2009, just over 248 million kunas and for preschool just over 2 million kunas. It's a government plan that boasted about what they'd do in school. In the budget of a June. Or a more recent example. Tomorrow we will discuss the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school and in this bill that introduces restrictions and actually gives up a free textbook project, the government has written that such a restrictive model as it proposes will cost the country 399 million kuna next year. For this purpose, it costs 280 million kuna in the budget. And now I wonder if the government is lying when it proposes laws and lies when it proposes budgets, because one and the other simply can't be true. The arguments that will say we're going to do this by deciding on redistribution, we're going to rebalance it on how actually the government doesn't have the slightest vision of what it actually wants to do. Because if she knew what she wanted, she'd have planned it nicely. And one sentence. I've been listening here all day to a crisis like this, a crisis like this, a crisis affecting this or that, it seems to me that my colleague Jerkovic has well noticed that here we can say now fortunately Croatia is too small in fact a player to in any way have such great influences, but what I think is pretty sad for all of us as representatives, and actually dramatically sad for the government, which actually uses the crisis as an alibi for our own incompetence. And if we are not only beginning to think about it, but also as representatives doing our job, and not waiting for this debate to pass, but really trying to change something, I don't think we're doing good to Croatian citizens, and it seems to me that we're all here and we've sworn to do exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22935	Thank you very much. Six minutes, thank you. Ms. Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22936	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs remain in the assembly and, of course, respected Mr. Ministers and representatives of the Government and representatives of the Government. Each country's budget should represent the state's blood count, but this draft budget before us today has already said something similar before me, and unfortunately I have to find it a fairy tale for me. It does not reflect any crisis, but it reflects the crisis of which we are all full of mouths these days, and what the media does not stop writing about. The prime minister calls for savings, fears citizens will lose their jobs, calls for the world's global, cosmic, I don't know what kind of economic crisis, outlines the blackest economic scenarios. But I also remember, Mr. Minister, you who only a little over a month ago very confidently claimed and reiterated that the wave of the global economic financial crisis will not affect Croatia, that Croatia will not suffer its consequences. We have already been taught to hear from the prime minister and the prime minister of this government today, tomorrow, the third, the day after tomorrow, ministers claim one thing, then the prime minister claims the second, then ministers of the pack of prime ministers, and then as parrots after him repeat what his. But gentlemen, the populist-demographic structure that's been constructed and told about this budget this year, I think you've outdone yourself. There is no clear crisis from this budget, there is no instrument for saving the economy, there is no giving up on non-profit and non-profit investments, there is no savings, there is no rationalisation of a massive administrative apparatus, there is no macroeconomic solutions. The government is offering an irresponsible budget proposal, irresponsible to this country and its citizens and citizens, offering a budget that is not sustainable, I fear, which will not be able to realise, which will increase responsibility and deficit. But as already said before, the deficit would not be such a problem if it financed some investments that would boost profit growth, which would generate additional value, but only create this deficit for consumption growth. The draft budget does not clearly reveal a crisis in which no one seems to claim that we did not, no doubt we fell into it. He ignores this crisis, the budget is pre-election again. Like any HDZ government budget, voters are bought, cheaply trying to buy political points, favouring local environments where parties from the ruling coalition rule, are irresponsibly treated by state finances year after year, but five years in a row, so I guess another government will have to come and save the Croatian economy because HDZ at the head of HDZ governments doesn't change its temper, it leads the state almost to its collapse, and then someone else comes and saves it. Then let another government save Croatia's finances and reputation. The state administration's salaries will increase by 6%. Great. Everyone on our side, and I can see from your side of the assembly both on the left and right of the assembly, will commend it. However, how will these salaries be paid if already the 12th salary this year was a problem to pay? You'll transfer the ball to the unions. Behold, they sought, and they were guilty when one day there will be no money in the register to pay such increased wages. Well, of course they need to be increased, public sector wages, professors' salaries, cops, customs officers, regular civil servants in the state administration are really very small, low, and these people without whose contribution there would be no basic service provided to citizens, they barely come by the end of the month and count on their salaries, no matter how low and poor they sit at the expense of the beginning of the month. Next year, it'll be a question I'm afraid of. The pay's probably gonna be late. This draft budget also reduces subsidies in our shipbuilding, which I believe may have been a little too little emphasis today. That's one quiet thing. I think, I'm afraid people, shipbuilding employees, will be out of a job. You're probably hoping it'll be out there just behind the local elections. The powers of the local community are being decentralised. The powers are decentralised, but fiscal decentralisation is gone, there is no money, so local environments will be blamed for an even greater crisis when they will not be able to provide their citizens with adequate services. It always seems to you that someone else is to blame from the least of the municipalities to the global economic crisis, and here today we have heard, probably the biggest culprit of the late Prime Minister Racan's government, you don't think even the birds on the branches were singing at the time. But you forget what Croatia looked like before that government, in which the country was in a miserable moral, economic and international state. But don't worry, I'm pretty sure the citizens remember when they went to work and didn't get paid for months when the pensioners were stolen for their pensions. I remember a state-class top that they call them small-tooth cattle from television screens. I'm afraid that scenario will happen again in some way. Not in those forms, fortunately, I hope, but with similar effects. And so, every budget of this government is getting worse and worse, year after year getting worse. It can be seen that economic growth is less than the real rate of inflation, we all know that, the deficit of public cash registers is increasing, the economy is stagnating, there are no incentive measures, but we have some of our Croatian formula because the whole of Europe, each country in its own way, is trying to amortise the impact of the crisis on the pockets of its citizens and the finances of economics, trying to save jobs, preserve production. Some countries reduce VAT, some encourage other concrete measures, come up with various solutions. Let us also look back on the matter of the countries of the European Union. We ignored this crisis, this budget has no concrete measures, we do not encourage the economy, we encourage only the deficit of the state register. Maybe it's because we don't produce anything in this country, almost nothing, so then we just don't have anything to encourage because we're, we're an import-dependent economy and above all, that's what generated this crisis. I have to take a brief look at Istria, the region I come from, but I will not speak politically in this assembly as some other MPs from my county and it is true, as has been said before, our mayor boasts with co-operation with the prime minister of this government, with Prime Minister Sanader, and the fact is that some projects in Istria have been launched for these governments. The County and the state have found some common interests and projects, but certainly these investments are not enough and the investment of the budget item that reflects the specific life of my fellow citizens and fellow citizens in Istria, such as the item of the General Hospital in Pula, because unfortunately today, the people of Istria, the richest regions in Croatia, still do not have one single institution where they can obtain full health care. Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County engines are development throughout Croatia and we are proud of it and we want to contribute even more to the growth of the entire economic development of the Republic of Croatia, but for this we need serious investment in infrastructure, transport communication in human beings, in health and in tourism. In the past, we had large economic systems in Istria and the coast that may have been burdened with socialist irrationalities, but they also enabled strong capital and staff concentrations. Their business results had a leading position and were also competitive among the best in the market. But the wrong political economic thesis from the early 1990s on the liquidation and robbery of these so-called so-called ". Socialist mastodons resulted in the destruction of all these profitable systems. In this wave of syphilic liquidation and transition, nearly all the development and research potentials of our area have been destroyed. The result is visible in the current economic results of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. From the active export we have grown into a completely dependent import economy. This is the result exclusively of government policy that has led HDZ so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22937	Thank you very much. It was there for a few seconds. Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22938	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The government is almost 30 days late with a draft budget to be sent to the Croatian Parliament. We ask ourselves whether this almost 30-day backlog has been used in quality. I'm holding it personally, and it's not from the fact that this is a budget that cannot overcome the crisis that will be in 2009, and the government has not shown through this budget which... The measures will control the damage resulting from the crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means this delay had no excuse. However, this delay will probably only be used to show who might be responsible for the damage we're going to have next year from the crisis. We talked a lot about the deficit. Now I'm asking myself a question, could we have stopped the deficit? Or could we have controlled the deficit? So I'll start with the reforms of the Croatian government. Quick.hr reform that had to stop management from being an enemy to employers. She didn't do it in my personal opinion. After that, we have a quick cut. The same government project that was to be used to move laws that interfere with the economy. My grade, we didn't make it. One of the strongest measures that should have certainly produced huge results on two items to strengthen revenues to the state budget to reduce the trade deficit, which is an export offensive. Let's ask ourselves a question. We didn't get that analysis. My personal opinion failed. Therefore, the important government programmes that were turned around were how the businessmen to raise the GDP, to work faster, to work more actively, to make the administration their friend, to fight for the success of these three reforms of the Croatian Government well promoted and I would say the post opinion has no result and that is why we do not have enough income in the state budget. And that's why obviously then we have to have deficits. Afterwards, the government was not successful in health reform, and today, the minister himself has said several times, we have continuous losses that multiply year after year on health problems. We didn't have reforms, and we don't have those reforms in 2008. The problem is the pension system. We have huge problems in the pension system. The ones that went to II. The pension column will be the poorest pensioners. We don't solve that problem either. We have hidden deficits. These are losses in shipbuilding, these are also paid debts to pensioners who are not shown through the budget. These are all weaknesses that show that we are spending money we do not have in the budget and that will weaken us because we will simply be the culprits for the partial formation of insolvency in the Republic of Croatia. The question remains, and I ask myself, is 2008 a quality use to try to prepare for the 2009 crisis? We didn't even understand my opinion. In this House, we didn't want to understand each other. I remember the Croatian government's programme, and I apologize to the coalition government when the prime minister was delivered, and we made the biggest remarks on energy. We've estimated the least we can do in energy. The entire government programme is designed as an import of energy, not production. And now a month or 15 days ago, we're starting with a strategy. Instead of having prepared at least two power plants this year, regardless of whether gas or coal, we had prepared and started for hydropower plants. That we were going with the pipelines, that we were going with the pipeline, that we were going with the gas terminal. It's all investments that could have been. That we started with two refineries. Do I need to talk about the amount of investment that would have been then? These are not on the burden of deficits and the truth they would go to the burden of debt, but these are investments that would be several billion euros over the next two years, and we are not able to prepare any investment for next year. Not one. Two or three billion of us could have been spinning this year without talking about next year. But this is not just a question of strong companies that would prepare investments, but they would make the whole sector real and the entire private sector able to invest in themselves and that we could roll the wheel of economic... And energy is our biggest weakness in the trade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most energy deficits we realize, and we could export it. We could've been the ones that mattered. And what we should have done in these previous five years, is replace investment in road construction with investment in energy. Railways. We were structural, we shared it. Nothing. Tomorrow, with the opening of the market, with the adoption of European directives and railways, we will not run along the rails, and we could have solved both Gredelja and Končar who could have already produced locomotives for, I apologize for the name of those compositions for passenger transport. We could've taken the city transports. These are enormous investments. So it could have been. Did we do it in 2008? Did we have a discussion about that? We did. And the interpretation of the SDP on energy and the objections to the programme that we have said we have not addressed enough energy. We're all late, we're late, we're late. The answer, and who's to blame? I don't want to answer because I want everyone to conclude. But we had exits. We also know this year that the problem is shipbuilding. We are constantly waiting for the answers of the European Union. Let's not wait for answers. Either we save her or we don't save her, but if we don't save her, we spend her saving people, in restructuring, but if we save her, let's not let her sink. And again this year on the fifth of May, we didn't want to discuss it. We keep delaying, and that's our problem. In 2008, it was the year of the global crisis, the financial crisis, as well as our ongoing problems, and we did not want to solve them. Well, of course we've come to where we are now. But we still have to ask ourselves if this government has given us answers to what we're going to do next year? Why don't we start building the power plant? Why aren't we moving? People's public debate is all next year. We can discuss atomic energy, but let's not discuss thermal power plants. Let's get going because we're not gonna do anything next year if we don't leave tomorrow if we're not leaving yesterday. Let's start with a huge budget cost. And that's a huge number of public sector employees and administrations, a huge number. That's our problem, not our salary growth. But we don't want to talk about it. The mass of the regulatory bodies was established. It's just that these bodies are trying to fill themselves with responsible people, professional people. But the administrations aren't shrinking. These are programs that are not shown at all and these are our problems. Of course, what we're trying to say in the SDP remains what we're not going to make amendments. We wanted to make one proposal, it's impossible to form it business, because all these procedures that we should have done through state-owned companies are insufficient. We must have five billion additional funds for HABOR to take responsibility for the export economy and for investments in the real sector. And of course we can't do it without going into charge, because there's no reserve. We can't take some items off by heart. There isn't and we can't give that quality amendment. But without money in HABOR and those who will professionally decide what investments they are and what projects they are, which are export projects that will follow we simply are not able to do. And yet I must say two words. We offered and the solutions is not just a battle for jobs and for the company, but the battle for the citizens is important to us. We offered solutions how to introduce a VAT rate in energy. It's a relief to both businesses and individuals. And it's not less money in the budget. Because all those money that they save at the lower VAT energy rate will be spent on goods, on food, on some other products, and all that will be returned to the budget. And we also offered solutions in health contributions. But, you know, it's hard to talk when the government's competent authorities answer that you're unprofessional, illiterate and you don't know. Such communications are obviously not welcome in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22939	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević? He's gone. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, she's not here either. Mrs. Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22940	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The 2009 state budget proposal, which plans budget revenues of $124.6 billion, and expenditures of $128.9 billion, prove that there is nothing since Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's promise of a zero deficit and a balanced budget. Because the budget deficit is 4.3 billion kuna and 1.6%, respectively. But for the deficit of the state budget, according to the government's view, the main culprits are state officials and subsistence employees and employees in public services because the growth of wages violates the balance of the budget and introduces the deficit. But 6% growth requires 1.5 billion kuna. It is clear that without an increase in wages, there would be a deficit, as the deficit of the state budget is the result of huge state spending, of the irrational business of the state and of a massive state apparatus in which it is exclusively employed in political likeness as well as an unimplemented health reform. In the last 5 years during this government, it has been founded on dozens of state agencies, institutions and other institutions where many employees have been employed, resulting in a further outbreak of the state apparatus. However, it would not be a problem in the deficit, as the budget deficits have EU countries and deal with it. The problem with this 4.5 billion kuna deficit is that it does not focus on investments, for example. in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which would then monitor the economy and exports, which would preserve jobs, and achieve economic growth. In addition, there is a real risk that the budget deficit is greater than 1.6%, as it is highly doubtful whether economic growth will be planned in 2009. We also do not know what will happen to shipbuilding, and how much will ultimately be the cost of health reform. And instead of giving up political projects such as the Peljesk Bridge, the state budget proposal, for example, reduces 20% of the Fund's funding for Development and Employment, 30% of the Regional Development Fund, 12% are reduced incentives in the Ministry of Agriculture. It seems that by reducing these funds, the government does not seem to care at all or is unaware that without the growth of domestic production and without increasing exports, there is no overcoming this crisis. The foreign capital flow has dried up, and the CNB has only calmed the situation in the short term and maintained monetary stability. Non-compliance with the basic principles of fiscal policy of the budget, which is that the state should be in debt exclusively to finance investment activities in the economy, rather than ongoing public spending, has led the country to a difficult situation in Croatia. Unfortunately, we have difficulties in Croatia. He had an increasingly bad economic situation and an ever lower standard of living. But structural reforms are lagging behind, no vision of social and economic progress, no measures are left to ensure that they move forward and that Croatian citizens do not have to worry about their existence. Croatian citizens really look forward to 2009, which is why there are more reasons. It is primarily the fear of losing jobs, and the particular problem that plagues citizens is the responsibility that is enormous and has reached 121 billion kuna. This budget will not improve this situation because we have an uncertain year ahead. I would like to continue to say something about the projects in Virovitski podravska County from which I come, which should be financed from the funds of the held budget, i.e. from the funds of the extra budget user. It is not visible from this budget for these projects, some of which are ongoing, some of which should even start providing funds. The prime minister today in the parliament said the Peljega Bridge is a matter of Croatian national pride. Maybe Podravska fast road Gradec-Belovar-Virovica is not a matter of national pride, but it is of vital importance for the development of Virovitical Podravna County. Does this today's statement by Prime Minister Sanader mean that it is going to build a highway and automatically give up the fast road project, the question of what are the reasons for it, so why are the funds spent in vain for the project and other documentation for the fast road that has been built for several years and whose construction is stuck with Gradec last year? Furthermore, the budget proposal from the users of the Ministry of Health can establish that no funds from the local HDZ authorities have been provided for a long-promised project to build the Center for Education, Education and Rehabilitation of Virovitica, the value of the investment of about 60 million kuna. The question is whether the same ministry will honour its commitment to co-finance the construction of the Virovitica General Hospital. For this project, worth around 100 million kuna, the ministry has committed itself over the next 10 years to increase decentralised funds by around 7.5 million kuna per year. Since there is a decrease in capital investment in the ministry's position, does this mean the withdrawal from the commitments already made? So since the government has exceeded the legal deadline and has not delivered the Croatian Parliament by November 15th, it would not be unusual for it to give up, or to carry out already undertaken commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22941	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, almost five minutes less. Mr. Representative Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22942	Your Honor. Last year's budget has been called a budget for the even development of Croatia, but it is clear to all of us that this year has not been achieved. This year's budget acknowledged that there is no development policy, as this budget is almost identical to last year's, ignoring the crisis, and big money is in two state funds that will later share the retail under discretionary law. For years, colleagues have been complaining about the opacity and intransparentity of the budget, and the government has not made an effort to have a transparent, transparent text in front of us to this day. Obviously, some respond to this confusion of numbers and letters in which only senior financial experts can fully cope. The budget proposes a reduction in the tourism ministry's budget compared to 6.3% in 2008. This reduction is becoming questionable because the forecasts of the World Tourism Organisation are forecasting a slowdown in the growth of international tourism demand. This proposal must be taken into account because tourism revenue is important in increasing the social product and foreign incomes that were at 7 billion euros this year, which improves the country's foreign currency liquidity. I expected the Government to take a good look at the methods and measures it intends to encourage the development of the economy, to create new jobs, to reduce the level of corruption in areas with public money, to increase the efficiency of the judiciary and to realise capital projects that would facilitate the conditions for creating a new value, and then to strengthen the fiscal capacity of the state in order to provide a better service to citizens in the fields of social and health policy. Also, the problem of inflation that seriously threatens to devalue capital as it reduces the purchasing power of the population and directly threatens the standard of citizens. In such circumstances it is expected to expect a trend of stagnation in terms of consumption and this directly affects the realization of planned tax revenues. This budget will not be developed as well as last year, as its main generators over the past seven years have been state investments, mostly large infrastructure and external borrowing. One has reached its highest environment, and that direction is no longer possible. The budgetary policy of our government obviously has no answer to these challenges but is persistently calling for a global crisis that seems to have fallen from the march overnight. Inflation and low economic growth, the country's growing debt, the citizens' standards and the non-transparent spending of money from the Treasury are in fact the worse economic policy this government has led over the past five years. That is why we felt that some moves should be made and we proposed several laws that we believe would help mitigate the fall of standards and preserve the real value of workers' wages. Since the economy is such that we cannot secure an increase in wages from it, we have suggested that we go to a reduction in some contributions. In this way, the economy, i.e. entrepreneurs, would not be further burdened, but certainly the state would have to find some new sources of funding. You'd be free of room to raise your salary to the workers. So the state needs to find some of its new sources of funding and the fact is that it's a matter of political decision and the question is whether this government doesn't want to or doesn't know. We now have a proposal for a 2009 budget from which both representatives and citizens of the Republic of Croatia should... equal care of the central state towards all. [[You don't understand.]] I'm afraid that's not because this budget proposal wide opens the door to a centralised way of distribution of financial resources because in 2009, we are expected to have local elections in full, in which such non-transparent financing will take place in the middle where HDZ is with coalition partners in power. The proposal for the 2009 budget is so inaccurate, untransparent and general that no projects and programmes for the Varazdin County and other parts of Croatia can be read from it. It can only be guessed whether the Government will channel money through certain tenders into certain projects and programmes, but if it is tried by projects such as the town of Ivanca for a culture centre that we have been applying for several years and we do not receive financial support to go into the realisation of this project that is very important to that city, then we can be sure that they have just earned similar funding from the state budget. In my debate, I would like to touch on another topic related to the Varazdin County, i.e. the town of Ivanca and those socially endangered groups. In the town of Ivantz, we have a male foster home. The home is a day - to - day work of experts who work hard to form young people who have fallen into the welfare system for various reasons. The conditions in which these children live, learn and socialize and the conditions in which employees and institutions work are below every minimum of quality life and work. This government that just emphasizes the importance of education, which emphasizes the growth of living standards, obviously does not know what it's talking about because when you put these children in such conditions, then you can forget about living standards and quality education, and the effort of all employees falls into the water. The government's coalition programme also announced the construction of a fast road in Varazdin-Krapin, but after a year there is nothing left of this road, and this budget shows that it will not start until next year. The road would allow for the development of the entire Varazdin County and part of the Krapina-Zagorska County because without such a link it is difficult to launch business zones that would employ new workers to help develop the area forgotten by this government. Promises remain only promises until the appropriate time is shown, the time of elections when some activities are yet to take place, so I must admit that this government is indeed taken when it comes to vote-gathering. Dear Minister, I sincerely hope that I am wrong with my judgments, because that would mean that the citizens of this country will live better, more dignifiedly because I think they deserve it, every citizen of this country, because they, however, have shown you trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22943	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Four minutes. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22944	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 can be freely said to be brought precisely in conditions which are both dramatic and unusual than any of the so far. It is evident, however, that the global financial crisis will not pass over the coming years, nor Croatia, although until recently, optimism from the Banski dvori will continue to be nice, that we will continue to be able to spend what we have not earned. However, the budget that has been emerging today determines a situation that does not promise something good, which seems to be not fully accepted by the creators of this budget as a fact. I'd try three things to say what I think you should have this budget and what it doesn't have. First, I think the budget must be more thriftful. He didn't, however. Why not? Well, because the government's used to spending like we're a country lying on oil sites picking up rent without a job. This budget should introduce drastic changes to investments that are not visible from this. Because what's happened so far. Well, it's no wonder that, say I come from Osijek but that the government affords overnight to build a hall in Osijek. For what? To prove to those who rule in Osijek that it is not the ruling party that it can do so and to make one impression with the citizens and tell them directly if you vote for us, you will have everything you want. On other examples, there have been a lot of speeches here today, and I don't think we need to talk, but we should also say that this budget can no longer bear grand promises and that they should in some way forget or prolong them as it is here today and either speak or slow down, and what we should do is invest in those sectors and projects that will return funds in a short time. However, according to the items present here in this budget, we see that it is not in this way conceived and that it is still as if there is no crisis and as if it will not affect Croatia. The second question I think needs to be given this budget whether it has an answer to the global crisis. In my opinion, the answer is also negative. Why? Because the proposed budget with the planned deficit we have received does not make it impossible to slow down the development of the economy, but most of these items of this deficit are to preserve social peace or withdraw coalition power. I think it's very dangerous because every slowdown in the growth of the economy in the future means stagnation of the living standard of the population and when it comes, it will certainly not be good anymore, and it will be very difficult to stop the problems that will arise. And the third thing is that this budget doesn't solve and that's the question of the worsening social situation of the population. We talked a lot about inflation this year, the fall of standards, etc., about the government's social policy, which did not address the issues of electricity collection in quality, and we also happened to subsidize those who do not have a need for it. Or, for example, the implementation of a populist policy to all students of a free book where there were cases where everyone was getting those books and some were coming to school with cars and others didn't even have a bus ticket to buy. Normally, this causes both frustration and impatience and among the students themselves, including parents who once showed up and very fatally because we had bad school-related situations. And finally, I have to say something for the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, which is evident from this is 4.3% higher than last year but smaller than the one planned. But I think it's a question of what to do with $4.73 billion. Well, I mean primarily to cut the imbalances from over one billion dollars that was made in the first nine months because we imported over $2 billion worth of food and exported only by $950 million. This means that, with our production, we should re-adopt Croatia's market with agricultural products that we will produce ourselves and at the same time reduce these imports, or so to throw them out. However, smooth items and support are not a guarantee to me that this will work. Why? Well the incentives are seen from this reduced we see by 12%, but at the same time the salaries are higher in the ministry even by 25%. Is this about forging projects such as the Agricultural Chamber 3 million, the Land Agency 19 million kuna, all this will lead to new employment and indicates that regardless of the discussions that were being conducted here, the self-satisfaction of those making this budget is not the result of accepting projects in farmers but merely imposing some new commitments. In one word, with this budget, there are none of these three premises that I have made. I don't think they've been realised, and I find this budget as such not acceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22945	Thank you very much. Two minutes, and I also thank you for them. Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22946	Dear Mr. President, honored Madam and Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In these late hours and in these difficult times when every budget savings is sought, as well as Reuters reports that the government's original plan for the budget deficit to be zero failed due to failed negotiations with the paying unions and due to the high cost of health reform and that growth in 2009 will slow to about 2% from the current 3.5% and some employees will be fired. Reuters also adds that Croatia's external debt has reached about 90% of the gross social product and is larger than $10.28. Here, I have a concrete and scientificly-founded proposal on how substantial budget savings can be achieved, so the Government can put it into its amendment. According to the budget referred to in paragraph (a) 654021, which is called artificial action in time, there is a defence against a fight that simply does not have a foothold in scientific research. And for that, 24 million 605,000 kunas are foreseen, of which 17 million and 370,000 kuna for material costs, respectively, for rockets. As I said, the defense against the fight has no scientific basis in scientific knowledge and any more serious works published on the subject, and also the leaders of meteorological organizations say, so I will now quote, for example, Joseph Roskar, head of the Department of Meteorology at the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, "Through our government we are somehow trying to stand at the World Meteorological Organisation's position that there is no need to organise an operational defence, that it makes no sense and that spending state money on these things is a complete loss or total waste of money through a window. Dr. Ivan Merschich, president of the Hungarian meteorological service, says: "In the 1970s and 1980s, the Hungarian meteorological service also had a system to defend against the fight. He worked on Russian missile defense technology and in the early 1990s we stopped because the cost of the results was not worth mentioning. We spent a lot of money, but the results were nothing. I don't think the missile defense system is effective enough right now. Costs are high and efficiency is not greater than 75% of total investment if so." Hugo Gertner, president of the German meteorological service, says: "The meteorological service of Germany is not included in any time modification program. We don't think it's worth it, although there is a private company in Germany that defends against fighting in southern Germany and Bavaria. No obvious results. I want to say there is no result at all because it cannot be proven scientifically that it works well." Dr. Michel Garro, Secretary General of the World Meteorology Organisation, says: "We were talking about an experiment to defend against a fight and there are many more research activities. A lot of experiments have been carried out in many countries and, as you know, the results are inconclusive." Let's also mention Dr. Fritz Neuwürth's opinion, director of the Austrian Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics, which says, "We don't think that this is really useful in a way that you can change time to defend yourself. We really don't believe that. Because they pay we are supporting," it is thought of private investors "but it is really not something scientifically based on what they are doing or what they can influence. If a person were responsible for defending themselves from a fight, I really think it's a waste of money and it's better to make insurance than to do these defenses. I want to say there have been international experiments and also from these experiments it's scientificly clear that this is not a good way to go and that in practice it doesn't work. Moreover, in its conclusion of 31 March 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the opinion that, quote: "The existing system of defence against fighting in the Republic of Croatia does not have a satisfactory foothold in science and there are no objective indicators of the effectiveness and justification of such a system." So that's what this government, the HDZ government, adopted on 31 March 2005, adopted in one opinion. In short, the silver iodide that has been inserted into the clouds by anti-urban rockets has been penetrating too short a time in the clouds for an even more effective phase-modification of the ice that lies there. In addition, because of the chemicals contained in rockets, which eventually fall to the ground to defend against fighting contributes and polluting soils by jeopardising agricultural resources and even in areas where we have declared ourselves to develop organic production. Let us also mention the possibility that the debris of the rockets will fall to the ground and cause considerable material damage that has been observed on many buildings, and even the possibility of being hit on the head and killed. In conclusion, the state should therefore not finance the money of taxpayers' taxpayers the scientific dubious activity and that the defence against a coup under State patronage remains only in countries with a very difficult communist heritage, for example Belarus and similar practices of the European Union's fight defence system should be separated from the operational and administrative responsibilities and administrative structures of the State hydrometeorological institution after the change of the relevant legislation. Respecting social, psychological and political sensitivity and in line with the potential wishes and needs of local communities, the defence of fighting can also be organised in another way by providing insurance through insurance companies or by putting networks through these pests, multi-annual pestilences or the like. Therefore, the government could burn or about 24 million 600 thousand kunas if it completely shuts down the defense from fighting or burns at least 17 million kunas as long as it takes for rockets, and then, because of social sensitivity, the workers continue to receive wages, but then they can dance Indian dances and pray that the fight doesn't fall because the effect would be exactly the same. And due to a certain fixation of the HDZ coalition partner on the defense of the fight, I am almost certain that this will remain in the budget but honored colleagues and colleagues I assure you that both the government and meteorological profession and the Racan government and the HDZ Government are not scientifically founded. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22947	Thank you very much Mr. Franic for a very interesting and convincing explanation for me. But here's the government heard. I hope so. It's Mr. Representative Boris Miletic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22948	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. What is being read from the 2009 budget can be read that it is still centralised. It is still visible in the revenue side of Istria County is represented with amounts in percentages, and on the spending side these amounts are unfortunately in prominence. And normally that a man simply cannot agree with it, the more that despite the centralized budget of the unit of local self-government, the more and more have to take on certain roles that the state should play, the greater the fees that are going to our pensioners from year to year. It's funded normally and the university's work. Social care is increasingly being financed, as the citizens tend to live. But it's a tough situation. Maybe the simplest thing is to be in the opposition, to criticize. But honestly, it bothers me that there was no understanding of a city like Pula where we had a tragedy where a primary school burned down and that there was no courage to help that city, or those children who attended that school. It also bothers me that in the city of Pula it is not possible to help build roads when we know that we want to develop both tourism and the economy. And maybe one rhetorical question. I believe that today everyone would be happier if instead of money they had invested rather than for the construction of handball halls that would serve as a one-time use of the world handball championship, that this money had invested right in the infrastructure that would help the economy. So I'll just say one thing. One of my contributions to how to go better ahead. We need to keep production and we need to keep jobs, so I am appealing from this pay phone, so let's not go to the fast-track privatisation of the Uljannik Shipyard. Why I'm talking about the Oilman. I'm talking because it's a shipyard that has a filled book order by 2011 with 11 ships. It is a shipyard that can provide these orders with full employment, and we are talking about how much we need production, how much we need to keep jobs, and I wonder if these jobs are not kept in this way, if this base is also being reduced to pay for contributions, health care, pension, then it is only possible that these contributions will increase what will normally lead to a more difficult situation for our citizens and our workers. So once again I appeal, let's not privatize the Oil. It cannot be viewed as being the same as other shipyards. He's not using state guarantees. He's doing a positive job this year and has long-term survival. Therefore, I can only express my dissatisfaction once more and convey what the citizens of Istria tell me. People wonder why they pay those taxes when nothing in our county is built on state money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22949	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for making a significant contribution to the term. Goran Beus Richembergh. He's gone. And as the last in this debate tonight, Mr. Boro Grubisic is representing. Here you go. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go. Maybe it's a little quiet, 'cause these others are talking, so you can't hear me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22950	I have no idea. You surprised me because a large number of people gave up. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. An old Jewish curse and they say that the worst one says “that God had and didn’t have. ” Here, this dramatic or drastic thing that's being talked about here tonight kind of fits this curse. I'm not going to repeat it again at that tightening and cutting, so tightening the one to paraphrase the Prime Minister's statement. Well, then tonight it was about cutting expenses and some other stuff. However, I must say that I expected with this budget what was announced, and this is a new deal. New deal means one development budget, and it actually doesn't show, but rather the items of the budget that talk about spending a little bit of reduction, something a little more beautiful, haired so that when we look at all those items that someone said here and non-transparent because it's hard for them to read the projects themselves and the infrastructure and others, I don't see that it's developed. The war events in us and the destruction of the 1990s have explained the difficult situation in the affected war areas, thus covering up the catastrophic harmful effects of criminal conversion and privatisation. Today, I would say one situation where, in a global, global, economic, financial crisis, we cover up what came out of this budget, i.e. this dramatic, drastic, etc. And the causes of the crisis aren't from last year or before last year. After privatisation, the sale of banks, strong corruption affairs, excessive borrowing, the awakening of administrations, and I must point out that the structure of employees in the Republic of Croatia is truly catastrophic. It's only 260000, 266000 manufacturing workers, employees. It is 400,000, working in service activities, and nearly as much in public services and in administration. Now, today I also received a letter from the Brod-Posavina County on how to help, how to save the thing at all if we help and if we succeed in helping these 266 000 workers in manufacturing activities. The letter says the Ship-Posavina County economy achieved exports in 2007, exports of US$174 million, which is 60% more than in 2006. In the first 10 months of this year, the same county, or economy, exported 214 million goods for 214 million US dollars, which is 23% more than in the whole of 2007. The export of that county is higher than the imports by 12%. The second year in a row of the Brod-Posavina County economy has the largest export growth in the Republic of Croatia. Maybe a little interesting, but that's right. According to the coverage of imports and exports, it is fourth among Croatian counties. The largest exporters are companies from the metal-processing industry, so metal production, metal products, machines, devices and vehicles, which accounts for 70% of total exports. Furthermore, woodworking industry and furniture production 12% and malt production, brewing malt 7%. With all that, there are favors, so-called. services in rough exports, installers, installations and others where 600 workers earn income outside the Republic of Croatia, which can also somehow be classified into the export economy. They wonder, the manufacturers wonder what will happen to the exporters, this industry that's gone, finally stood on its feet and took the right path. Unless the government, or the ministry, is no longer hearing to assist the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which helps and which can help development and the economy, especially the export economy. I've heard this remark several times tonight, but here's the memo I got from the ship-Posavina County's economics, so I didn't want to give up, not to mention their opinion shared with the other representatives in the Croatian Parliament. When you talk about saving, you have to save. About the belt tightening, however, the union demands 6% have been lenient. I would say more that this is some kind of alibi discount, welcome discount because when we see and look at items that can be read from the administration, so also in expenditure then we see that the expenditure on salaries in the vast majority of these directorates, agencies, councils, offices, offices, chambers, centres, committees, academia, state administrations, funds, institutes, state commissions, which we don't have here in our administration, that index is not 106%, but greater. And not just that. If it is 106%, so 6% as agreed, then we still have salaries for regular work 106%, but in the vast majority, that 6% is much higher. There's an agency where it goes up to 20%, so it's not 6% increased, it's 20%, and we've got all this overtime and then the rest of the staff expenses, and then we've got official travels, so we've got work-carrying fees, and we've got separate lives and professional training for employees who hide also large amounts that actually belong, they should belong to the 6%, but we've got big increases, far more than 6%. If we save a crumb along with that, not to mention this anti-urban defense, but a crumb by crumb and a large, large amount could be used where they are most needed and only in what can save us, and these are production activities that are supported by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development or HBOR as they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22951	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain on behalf of the club. He's gone. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker, in conclusion and I hope concisely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22952	Here, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Since the president said he needed to be concise, I'd like to thank you all for the debate. As always, everyone has a different view of the budget, but I still think that we are all aware of what awaits us next year, that it will be extremely difficult and very demanding, so we can politically deal with some things, but I think that in one year around some things we will have to have a political consensus because it will be very difficult to do some things. So thank you very much for the discussion and thank you very much for accepting the suggestion that we should cut this short together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22953	Thank you. It was very concise. The amendments can be submitted by 12 o'clock tomorrow. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 2009 National Budget Proposal of the Republic of Croatia, with the State Budget Project for 2010 and 2011. Proposals for financial plans of extra budget users for 2009 with a projection proposal for 2010 and 2011: (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads (a) Dra) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Resolution Agency (a) Croatian Privatisation Fund (a) Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Proposal for the State Budget and financial plans for 2009 with the Proposed projection for 2010 and 2011 (consolidated); ladies and gentlemen representatives, we move to a vote on the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The debate on the text of the draft budget is over. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments tabled in this way must be adopted by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please let him raise his hand for it. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, the proposal is accepted to discuss the government's amendments. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the Government's amendments. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go. Amendment 1 to the 2009 National Budget Proposal. The income and expenditure account shall be changed as follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22955	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me just have a few more words about this argument. So, at the announcement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's budget, the Prime Minister announced the possibility of finding additional savings to reduce the deficit of the state budget by a few-tenths of a percent and thus we proposed amendments. The 1st amendment also proposes to reduce the operating expenditure of a billion 913 million 546 million. Accordingly, since the reduced costs for this same amount have ceased to be necessary and the need for borrowing is reduced. Also, for 38 million 290 thousand kunas, the cost of obtaining non-financial assets is reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22956	Thank you. I suggest that the minister explain all the government's amendments, and then we open the debate. Here you go. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22957	Amendment 2 refers to the operating expenditure and to the reduction of expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets. In Amendment 3, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to cut expenditure totalling 951 million in total, and they are allocated by activities, current and capital projects in the following budget users: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Croatian Institute of Pension Insurance, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and in the following amounts: Ministry of Finance 6.5 million, Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity 10 million, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration 47 million 336 thousand, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship 10 million kuna, Ministry of Agriculture, but here when we talk about the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship are working on the arrangement of a single building that is to be financed from the Croatian Institute for Pensions and Rural Development of Health and Finance, with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, 75 million. So that's Amendment 3. As far as Amendment 4 is concerned, it is proposed that the Croatian Roads Financial Plan be reduced by 190 million. Of these 190 million 100 million, it refers to the Peljesic Bridge. Amendment 5 is also a proposal to reduce the Environment Fund's financial plan of € 160 million. And in this way, by reducing expenditure, we have reduced the deficit of the state budget from the proposed 1.6 to 0.88% of gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22958	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22959	Yes, Amendment 6 is just a practical consolidation of all this being said in previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22960	Okay. Thank you very much, Minister. I am opening a debate on the proposed amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, all six amendments explained here by the minister. Here you go. Ms. Milanka Opacic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22961	I'm asking you nicely, Mr. President, to pause for the club for 15 minutes so we can consult on the amendments that have just arrived on our bench and are expected to vote on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22962	Thank you very much. Resume session at 10 o'clock. So, 15 minutes break. We'll continue at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22963	Ladies and gentlemen, after this break, we will proceed with the session and the debate on the amendment of the first government. I'm opening a debate on the first government amendment. The finance minister explained the amendment and the other five. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22964	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club wonders what is happening in the last 30 days in the Republic of Croatia? The government is late with the 2009 draft budget. With these amendments, the government is about 1% of GDP changing budgets. We are trying to ask whether or not the legal and constitutional way this amendment is proposed for a simple reason because MPs who normally adopt the budget cannot propose such amendments, I cannot propose. The government can. Then it's the SDP's conclusion that this isn't an amendment, this is a new budget. Therefore, with this way of determining outside the rules, with such amounts and with touching items that MPs do not have is evident today that we have a completely new budget for 2009. What we also want to see as the SDP Club is that an interesting deficit remains somewhere at the height of the failures of the government of the Republic of Croatia's negotiations with the trade unions. It's as if he's trying to find the culprit in advance for the 2009 problems he's going to cause just like this budget that's been passed. And there will be, there will be some problems. I'll just try to explain two items. The problems will be because we simply don't have the means to implement the programs and the announced programs. The government of the Republic of Croatia simply did not provide the necessary funding for the programmes it decided to implement next year. Although they are not in this amendment, I will try to explain them because the debate was also about the overall amendments. We can spot a download on the roads for fast roads. But we have announcements that we're going to have a highway construction. At the same time, we have non-payments from all trading companies in the area of road construction. Therefore, road construction problems are evident. We don't have the measures that should have been right next to this budget to see what's going to happen in this sector. We will also vote today on health care and health reform, which is primarily in the domain of income. We see that the Government is changing that revenue from the proposed act, which is the projection of the budget for next year. What does that mean? There won't be a reform either. Do we have measures to measure what we will do since there will be not enough resources? There isn't. That is why it is also the conclusion of the SDP club that this is something that has not happened in the practice of the Republic of Croatia, that in just 6 days we have 2 draft budgets. That many MPs who have submitted amendments to these amendments are no longer correct because the items have changed significantly, and the government has taken the right that otherwise the MPs do not have the right. Indeed unusual behavior for a serious crisis announced in 2009. Therefore, the assessment of the SDP is the 2009 budget, if we accept it this way, there will be no budget that will significantly affect the negative consequences of the crisis in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22965	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22966	The truth is, I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations. First it was said that the government was late First, it is said that the government is late for what is incorrect. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Peace! Please!]] The government passed a proposal within the legal time limit. She proposed a proposal for a budget, the same thing as it proposed within the legal period and the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22967	Well, gentlemen, please. This is an amendment number one debate. Governments where club representatives speak, have to speak, and then have the right and representatives to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22968	So let me start over. So it's incorrect that the government is late with the proposal. It has been passed and proposed within the legal time limit, as are amendments within the legal time limit and in a legal manner, as are parliamentary deputies. We have eighty amendments to the parliamentary deputies and it is incorrect that there is no money for health reform. Money is provided to the extent that it is necessary for health reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22969	And another correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect to ask the question of constitutionality. A colleague said it wasn't a constitutional procedure. This procedure is based on the Constitution and on all laws that define how and who adopts the budget and how it changes it, who adopts the amendments and how. Therefore, it is fully in line with the Constitution and the laws so that there are no false interpretations. The government's non-serious behavior for a crisis year. If it weren't for serious, then we could have had this budget a month ago. The government’s adjustment to the global crisis situation proves that the government is conscious and responsible. It's clear to me that you don't understand because you've never had such a conscious and responsible government. But this is a responsible budget adapted to exactly what comes next.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22971	My colleagues and colleagues, please allow every representative to be able to speak his mind without distraction. Let's not have double standards. One time when a representative, when one MP doesn't like something by the other, that when he reacts then a breach of the Rules of Procedure is sought and warns the chairman why he didn't warn the MP. Let's be parliamentary and let everyone present their views. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to react because of the Croatian public. If one law is then it applies to everyone no matter what political option they belong to and what time they were in. I am therefore surprised that colleague Linic, a respected representative, forgets how the 2003 budget was adopted. Please, nice! You can laugh all you want. However, according to the same law if today is unconstitutional and then it was unconstitutional. If today is illegal and it was illegal. But then you cut the budget because you got a directive from Washington that you had to cut the budget. I think it was a billion and a half million kuna. You sent one budget to the Croatian Parliament, the other you adopted. On the day of adoption in the morning of the budget, 6 amendments came from those famous 600 million for the restructuring of agriculture. That was 2003. 2.4 billion unpaid bills remain in the Croatian highways. And it's not exactly what you said. Croatian highways have been granted, domestic banks' unions have received 160m euros and most of their liabilities will be settled by the end of 2008. That's true. You can talk like that now, however, Zagrebačka Banka has made one offer at 70 million, and the union of other banks has made an offer of 90 million and will be free of the obligations of Croatian Roads. As for health reform, I said in my opening section that 900 million commitments would be settled by the end of this year. Whoever knows how to run the statistics on the ESA 95, then knows what they are... and how they affect the budget, even though they... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They decrease in one year, so there's a need for smaller payments next year and you automatically cut that part of the costs next year, so that's something, statistics that's not the invention of this government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a statistic used to run public finances. All members of the European Union shall keep their budget according to the ESA 95, and that is what health care is all about. Therefore, according to the Budget Law that you have adopted, and we have amended that law, but it only refers to budgeting for 2009. The government can reduce the expenditure side, the government cannot increase the revenue side with its amendments. But I repeat, if one law applies to one, then it applies to the other, and you did the same thing in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22973	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Vice-President of the House Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22974	Dear Vice President of the House, Article 214 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, more specifically, you hurt him because you didn't give Mr. Secretary a warning, even though he hurt our Rules of Procedure, which is that he spoke out of the question. As far as I know, the topic of the agenda is the adoption of the 2009 budget, and Mr. Shucker is talking about some kind of 2003, it really went through the time, completely off topic. Instead of responding to a concrete remark that he allegedly responded to as much as it is or is not in accordance with the law, what the Government has done now, and definitely not in accordance with the law. He's talking about some kind of budget-making in 2003, I really don't know who understands it. It is completely out of the question and I ask you to prevent such a debate in the future if people do not hold on to it as the Rules of Procedure state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22975	It's not about a colleague respected for any injury to the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 145 of the The Rules of Procedure, the legislator, shall have the right to provide explanations during the debate, to deliver opinions and his observations on the proposals made throughout the debate. Also referred to in Article 156. The Rules of Procedure shall have the right to request a word throughout the debate, to provide explanations, to present their opinions, to make known the amendments submitted and the opinions and proposals expressed. The minister therefore gave his estimates and opinions on the budget. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22976	I am correcting Mr. Minister's imprecise statement that the budget for amendments should be respected by the Government in 2003. This is an incorrect claim because law enforcement needs to be able to read the laws and propose both the budget and amendments in accordance with the laws. And I wouldn't go into the analysis in 2003 because that's what Mr. Shucker likes, so he keeps coming back. And secondly, the correct statement is that the roadmen did not pay for their work for nine months, and what will be, when and how it will be, what Schooker is talking about was not mentioned. Therefore, 9 months of unpaid bills to construction firms in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22977	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22978	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Shucker's incorrect claim that this budget was passed legally. First of all, the law states that he should be headed for the parliamentary procedure by 15.11. The government referred him to procedure 4.12, and we're bringing him in on the last day of the constitutional deadline, which would be fine if it didn't matter if he hadn't changed, now 2 billion kuna. I wonder what 1 billion kuna is worth in Croatia. Apparently HDZ and Minister Shucker are nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22979	And Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to apply to Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and said that Mr. Minister incorrectly stated that the amendment proposal was in line with the constitution, citing the precedent as a reason. In the Croatian legal system, precedents are not valid. This is also evidence of HDZ's decision not to respect, for example, the return of MPs to the Croatian Parliament of Cacic, although it was precedentd when HDZ's representative entered the Assembly. Second, let me say it. The second thing I'm saying is, Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Croatia are now in action. As a member of the Committee on the Constitution, I also believe that the Government has deprived its amendments of the right of representatives to redistribute, i.e. the budget schedule, because it has reduced the budget by 2 billion kuna cca by its amendments, and thus the MPs could not achieve their constitutional role to allocate the total funds provided for in the budget according to their own policies through the amendments. I would ask Mr. Vice-President to show the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system referred to in Article 167, so let's see if it really was a precedent or if it was an unconstitutional proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22981	Mr. counterpart, you know very well that in this article 167.1 The Rules of Procedure states, firstly in paragraph 1, if the amendments are of such a nature that they substantially change or deviate from the final proposal of the law that the Parliament may decide to postpone the debate and so on. In paragraph 2, if the President or member of the Constitutional Committee is warned of their contradiction with the provisions of the Constitution in the debate on amendments submitted. The sitting will be suspended until the Constitutional Committee delivers an opinion if, contrary to amendments to the provisions of the Constitution, a member of the Constitution has warned. The sitting shall be suspended if a member of the Committee has the support of a third of the members of the Committee. Since there is no support from a third of the Committee members, then you will not... This must already be analyzed, we cannot play the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in this way. We have the Club of HNS Representatives, Mrs. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go, Mrs. Pusic. Mrs. Pusic, you do not follow the session, when I give you my word, please take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22982	Mr. President, since there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure that you haven't noticed, then I'm just reacting to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22983	And you noticed? Thank you very much. Okay. Come on, you're hurting the Rules of Procedure. Representative Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22984	Mr. Vice-President, your Rules of Procedure have not given you the right to judge the Rules of Procedure, but the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system calls on its colleagues from the club of MPs, there is one third of us, and nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that it must be in writing. Help yourselves in a good way with the Rules of Procedure and respect it. It's the only thing we're looking for, nothing more or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22985	The chairman gives you the necessary explanations by the Rules of Procedure, and I gave you the necessary explanations because I didn't judge anything. If you formalize that request, then I will consider the request and the proposal. Form that request like this we can't, this isn't how it's gonna work. Madam representative on behalf of the HNS club, debate on Amendment 1 to the government, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go. Here you are, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22986	Mr. Vice President, we discuss one amendment at a time or in a package.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22987	We are discussing, the argument has been given for six amendments, and we are discussing each individual amendment to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22988	Then I answer for the second amendment, not the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22989	On behalf of the club, okay. We'll be very patient. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22990	Mr. President, I'm asking you to take a break for the club for 10 minutes. I'm asking you to stand down for the club for 10 minutes for the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22991	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22992	I'm asking you to sit down for the club for the SDP session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22993	I need to explain why.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22994	Explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22996	So let's see, let's discuss some more of the amendments that are ahead of us, and also some of the actions that are in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22997	Okay. Ten minutes off. From the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u22999	Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I hope that representatives of the Croatian Parliament are not disputed that they are making a budget. I hope that it is not disputed for the MPs that Parliament, therefore, advocates, schedule funds through the state budget. I hope that it is not disputed for the MPs that the government is behind the possibility when MPs have been discussing and when their amendments have been budgeted for the users of this money, that the government has subsequently sent its amendments and reduced the budget by two billion kuna. In such a situation, MPs could not achieve their constitutional role, since they did not know what the budget they were discussing was. Thus, the Constitution clearly obliges the Croatian Parliament to determine both income and expenditure. As the government sent its amendments after the debate had been completed and reduced the total amount of budgets by two billion kuna, it also deceived a parliament that could not deal with it because it simply did not have that fact in front of it. In such circumstances, therefore, we feel that it is important to assess these circumstances. That is why we have requested that, in agreement with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall assess the constitutionality of these amendments. Good parliamentary practice and parliamentary logic do not require that the request for the Board's clarity be signed and written. It is the new precedent that introduces the Vice-President of the Parliament in parliamentary practice. But to fulfill that, I will first read who supports the proposal to show the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on the constitutionality of these amendments. It is Ivo Josipovic, Zoran Milanović, Tonino Picula, Vesna Pusić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Josip Leko. The text signed by these people will be obtained here in the Parliament. If parliamentary practice has not asked for a written request, and the vice president is asking for it today, I ask you to consider that this precedent does not change anything in the quality of our request. I ask you to respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and that the Committee on the Constitution and the political system is being shown about our request so that we can continue to work properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23000	Thank you very much. I shall once again quote the provision of Article 167(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament: "If, in the debate on the amendments tabled, the president or member of the Constitutional Committee warns of their contradiction with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the session will be suspended until the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system delivers an opinion. If, contrary to amendments to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has been warned, the meeting will be suspended and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System will meet if a member of the Committee has the support of a third of the members of the Committee." If, why did I ask for proof that a member of the Committee had the support of a third of the Committee members? It is not enough just to point out in the debate and say here, it has the support of one-third of the Committee members and I ask for a meeting of the Committee's meeting to be convened by the Committee president. It is logical and it is natural that this fact should be proved, so it must be proved that it has the support of a third of the Committee members. You are now stating that he has the support of 13 members of the Committee. The Committee shall form the President, the Vice-President and 11 members. One-third is five members of the Committee. You listed names here. I will believe your word that this is supported by those who are not present here, Mr. Representative Tonino Picula, who is a member of the Committee, also Mr. Milanović. I'll take your word for it that they've given support to the committee's assembly. He wasn't a precedent. On several occasions, in the current procedure practice of the Croatian Parliament, we have had such a request and it is always the one that initiated the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, it has always proved that it has the support of a third of the Committee members. Therefore, it is not about any precedent as said by his colleague Leko, but rather about one common, routine, normal fact that it must be proven, that he is likely to have the support of a third of the Committee's members for this proposal. It is now 10 and 41st, I now call in the room of 133th session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I ask all members of the Committee to be at the Committee's meeting, so at 10.45 and after that session will be... I'm interrupting the session now. After that session, the session of the Croatian Parliament will continue. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament outside the hall, please enter the assembly hall so we can continue the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, which concluded that the amendments of the Government were not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we are now continuing to debate the amendment of one Government. Madam representative Vesna Pusic on behalf of the club of HNS representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23002	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. But like I said, I took the wrong call in that case. My debate is on Amendment Two. So excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23003	Thank you very much. I respect the excuses, I was wrong. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23004	How long does this debate last after the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23005	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23006	Three minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23007	Five minutes, for you five.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23008	What about the place or down there?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23009	You can go from place, you can go here. How do you want it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23010	All right, gentlemen. What's down there? Your Honor, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Well clearly, amendments were always submitted to the budget, but probably never in the amount of 2.3 billion kuna. If this isn't a new budget, then this amended budget is important. The government, as we have the opportunity to hear or see later, has refused 79 amendments. But the government is not a Parliament and probably in some part it is possible to fix this budget, so more than really next year will probably be one of the hardest after '95. The incomes we see here remain 124.6 billion kuna, these expenditures are cut by 1.95 billion kuna to 127 billion kuna, the deficit is 0.88%. If I calculated this properly instead of the announced 1.6%. Or the budget deficit has been reduced by 2.3 billion kuna, counting the 350 million kuna outside budget revenues. The largest loss of health is a billion kunas, although it seems to be 800 million kunas, agriculture 96 million kunas, external affairs 47, education 80, economy 10, defenders 10, etc. However, what IDS most regrets about is the lack of significant financial injections through HABOR. We all know that in 2009, probably like I said, it'll be a hell of a hard year for the economy, one of the hardest since '95. over here. The economy runs out of credit, 6 billion euros should be reprogrammed, and then set up, how if the state withdraws almost all the financial resources of business Croatian banks. Someone here said, I think Mr. Milanovic that this 2009 budget is incompetent. Maybe he's even economically impotent. For capital investments, only 3.6 billion kuna remains, plus somewhere outside of the budget funds, approximately two, two and a half billion kuna. So for investments it stays as long as it can spend the City of Zagreb annually, not counting public enterprises HEP, forests etc. and this means that the investment is likely to be smaller, smaller and that the gross domestic product will probably be smaller next year, unless the economy is helped and jobs are preserved. Without investments, unfortunately, there will be no development, no roads, no plumbing, I don't know, etc. The construction of hospitals can be paralysed by the economy, and we've already forced those small foreign investments. All in all, it is good to reduce the deficit, but once again this practice of adopting amendments to the draft state budget, past the debate of the Parliament, where we are de facto getting a whole new budget is for each conviction and so clearly that this amendment in front of the IDS club cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23011	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment of one government. Who's in? We vote manually, as we have decided. He can do it on the right. He can do it on the left. Just not with both of us. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. With 72 votes for, 53 against, government amendment number one. Amendment to Government number two or second amendment. I'm opening a debate. Ms. Vesna Pusic's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen and ladies of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Amendment two, it also contains one information containing one information which was also in the original draft budget but given the drasticity of the changes that these amendments could and this information or that fact here be changed, however, as we can see it is not. So, we remember all the debates between the government and the union on wage increases and where, at one point in time, the Government eventually gave way in these negotiations where trade unions are publicly said to be responsible for this kind of budget, or for this kind of redistribution of funds. However, if we look at the original version as well as at this employee expenditure, we see that they are not 6% as the government said they were done on the basis of the union insistence but are about 8% and 8.2%, respectively, of the increase, and now that the staff costs are reduced by only 10 million, let's say roughly 8%. So 6% of the increase would be 1.2 billion, but we can see that there is no increase in these expenditures in the amount in which the trade unions asked for an increase in wages but clearly according to this proposal is actually planning new employment here. So this amount can't be the amount of 6% that the trade unions have negotiated to raise salaries, but in that amount, I suppose it's under the responsibility of the union or I don't know whose extra amount of about 470 million kuna that means new employment, or some other reserve, but how, where, in which way nothing is said here. So this is specifically speaking of this amendment, we will talk about problems with other amendments when we get to them, but here there is a little less than half a billion kuna increase in staff expenditure that is not reduced except by a symbolic amount that is over what is 6% pay increase. Of course, the HNS Club cannot accept this unprocessed expenditure increase that is not based on trade union negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23013	IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23014	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. So I'll look back at subsidies, amendment number two under subsidies to companies where it's shrinking by $58 million. Subsidies to farmers who are reduced by €3.7 billion from €58 million to $ 3.6 billion and aid given abroad within the general state or assistance to foreign governments of $97.100 million. The first thing to note is that in this year's budget subsidies from about nine billion kunas were reduced to 4 billion kunas in 2008. Well, in the economy, that's a little different. Croatia's shipbuilding on the other hand, if we follow the opportunities now, except for the Oilers, has de facto bankrupted, the state has already arrived, by the end of the year there are 4.6 billion kunas higher than those bonds. In 2009, it is certain that another 4 billion kuna will be charged. So what happens now? First of all, please, I'm going to tell you once again about this pay phone that the Oilman is not being sold. Those responsible in other shipyards should also be sanctioned. How can we discuss the fate of shipbuilding and neither have we seen an agreement with Brussels, and on the other hand, we see that shipbuilding this year will get through the form of subsidies significantly less money than it had in its distribution this year 2008. Which means reducing 25% of capacity, so it would be logical to ask us to increase capacity by 25% because five ships in Croatia work one year for 3,000 workers and in Korea, in one year, five ships make 800 workers. Which means the absence of a clause that customers for one kuna do not have to continue the ship's activities, that they do not have to keep workers, etc. All in all, I don't think this reduction in subsidies next year is a good practice. We see from Minister Pankretic that, compared to those originally planned 4.7 billion kunas, the minister remains without 96 million kuna or Croatian agriculture, the import of food is enormous, imports are generally astronomical in this country, but what the 96 million kuna is specifically concerned with now have been seen. It is subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs minus 58 million kuna and it goes directly against peasants and it certainly is not good practice. On the other hand, we see that the aid to foreign governments is de facto 97 million and 100 thousand kuna. The question is, do we have any needs in this country to try to help ourselves with these money? So, a higher reduction in these subsidies to shipbuilding, companies and we know what year 2009 will be to reduce subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as stated in this paragraph, IDS cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23015	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to the vote. Who's for amendment number two to the government? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 77 votes in favour and 51 against was accepted, Amendment 2 was adopted. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment 3. Government. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23016	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Amendment 3 could only be summed up to one part, which is that in the end, the health care remained on the side again and that, nevertheless, the declared desire for reform and the desire to make reforms, the health care was left without a billion and 700 million kuna. Obviously, health care is the easiest thing to take money, because health care is in losses anyway, so now a little more or less loss, it's totally irrelevant, but this budget and this attempt to consolidate health with this way obviously won't work. Because out of a billion and 700 million kuna, this new budget for health care, the new budget of the Republic of Croatia, and this budget, we have not had the opportunity to discuss because it creates new conditions. And the new conditions are that prescription drugs will take a billion and 200 million kuna, so deadlines that are now between 180 or 240 days for pharmacies have never been so long will remain as they are. And let me just point out and I can say that I'm sorry that we're the only one in our environment that we have so long to pay. Slovenia has 60 days, Serbia has 60 days, Bosnia and Herzegovina not from the pocket of Professor Hebrang, but from the health insurance system, see in Slovenia what it looks like, Serbia has in 60 days, Macedonia has in 60 days, Macedonia has in 60 days, Macedonia has in 60 days, Macedonia has consolidated its health system in this way, it will not be able to consolidate the system and will remain debts in the system, because with 3 million and 300, 3 billion and 330 thousand and something small for prescription medicines cannot cover debts that have been incurred in recent years, to just say that in the past budget for 2008, 2 billion and 300 million were envisaged and that spending alone is more than 3 billion and 100 if not more. To remain the HZZO debt that was 900 million for the first six months, the question is how long will it be by the end of the year. And in any case, this budget in this way will not ensure a peaceful life in the system, but the system will further balance and bring about, or continue what has been so far, and this is the moaning, debt and lack of medication, especially in the fact that it will be questionable how this budget will be charged and how debt can be serviced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23017	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23018	In this third amendment, Mr. Vice-President, gentlemen of MPs, ministers, the IDS Club will also show itself only on this item of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, 29.7 billion kuna minus a billion and 700 million kuna equal to 28 billion kuna. Not to talk about sickness benefits now, orthopaedic devices, aids etc., what is normally shortened, etc., etc. Health is not the only loss, but one of the biggest losers in this budget is certainly health care. However, even bigger ones may be the losers of the company and without helping them, the question may be complete as I will call it upgrade. The health minister of the originally planned 29.7 billion kuna loses under the quotes a billion and 700 million kuna, it will really be around 800 million kuna, the health budget does not increase by 25%, somewhere it will increase to 20%, and it is not that little increase to be realistic, but perhaps insufficient for 4.5 million citizens who use health services and 81 thousand health employees. So the demagogy is that anywhere is health free and therefore also in the Republic of Croatia. But the IDS thinks that money should have been left to health care for larger investments just in the construction of general and other hospitals. Because if there's money in this country, for handball halls, then God should be for me to build new hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23019	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic, Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As far as Amendment 3 is concerned, it is actually talking about the nature of the new budget, so to what extent these amendments that we have received direct statements on the budget are changing character and essence of the budget. Let me just mention a few things. So, these billions and 700 million kunas that are being stripped of health care. Health will get a billion and 700 million kuna less. We've spent days here discussing health reform, and it seems to me that maybe even a little absurd that we from the HNS Club who have had great objections to it are rebelling to remove that billion and 700 million. I think it would be logical for the HDZ Club to be fully in the luft, as it would be said, so it would be completely consterned by the fact that those who supported the health reform and who supported everything that has been proposed here now claim that it is still a billion and 700 million up or down. That it could be done without the billions and 700 million that originally planned as it could be done with. Therefore, it seems very unusual to me that at all the HDZ club that supported health reform and accompanying laws might think of supporting now cutting the budget for a billion and 700 million, because that same reform programme can be implemented with a billion and 700 million fewer people then something cannot be understood. Something doesn't fit there, because it can't be on the item of one ministry possible savings from billions and 700 million within three or four days it can't be established. If that's the case, we have all the ministries, so there's at least 20% of the budget we can save if that's the case. On the other hand, at the Ministry of Science, 80 million are being stripped or fucked. Just for illustration. If 80 million were added, that would be enough for free transport for third and fourth grade students. That's exactly how much. Even five million less would be enough for children to drive to school in both third and fourth grade. Agriculture cuts 98 million and external affairs 47 million and 336000 in the year in which we, more and less likely, should unfortunately conclude our negotiations with the European Union. So, the concept from these budget cuts, the government's concept is much clearer than the original budget, and it changes significantly. What was said about schooling as a priority of education is clearly out of the question. The health reform that was adopted here, or you supported it without a billion and 700 million. I don't know how it's gonna be. The Europe we were hoping to fuck is right in that part. Agriculture, nor do we have reform sexes in that part. It seems that in some ways from this amendment it is much clearer where the government is going, or that it is not going anywhere. So the HNS will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23021	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on amendment three to the government. Please, who's in favor of the amendment of the three Governments? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 74 votes in favour and 49 against, Amendment 3 was adopted. Government. We will now move to Amendment 6 because Amendments 4 and 5 refer to the Government's amendments to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan and the fifth amendment to the Proposal for a Financial Plan of the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund, and we will vote on these amendments after voting on Amendment Six of the Government. I'm opening a debate on amendment six to the government. There are no reports. I am voting on amendments to the six Governments. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 76 for, 50 against the adopted amendment of six Governments. Amendment four to the government. I'm opening a debate. Excuse me. We will vote on four and five of these amendments to the government when the vote comes on the Croatian Roads Financial Plan and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23022	So I would ask that these two amendments be discussed now because Amendment Six contains Amendments 4 and 5 that have been adopted. Therefore, Amendment 6 of the preliminary rulings that we have now adopted, adopted by the ruling majority, prejudges that amendments 4 and 5 have been discussed and adopted. So it's a consolidated state budget where it's already been built in that these two amendments have been adopted inside. Therefore, I suggest that we discuss amendments 4 and 5 now. It's completely absurd to adopt a consolidated budget, and then to discuss the amendments that, where, where, should. That's both. The minister, in general, explained all the amendments to the government, and you opened a debate on all the amendments to the government. So here's what I suggest if we can discuss both 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23023	I'll take it. Amendment four to the government. Here you go. SDP club, MP Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23024	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the amendment brings down 90 million kunas in the project of the Croatian Roads Programme, the construction and reconstruction of fast roads and reconstructions, the editing of roads on the islands of 100 million kuna. These 90 million kunas are something that we in Podravina, Prigorje, Bilogorje, in Koprivnica, Križevci, Bjelovar were looking forward to, because already 4 springs, 4 autumns are promised to announce the best spin this year, and perhaps this decade, it is this spin that happened. So, the government says there's no 90 million kuna to build a fast road of sub-Biogorical ipsilon, but we're going to build you a highway there because we're probably not rich enough to build a fast road, but now all of a sudden we're going to have money to build a highway and that highway as far as anywhere in the world, we're not going to climb the highway, but we're going to have known shares of the Bjelovar-Gradac highway, so we're going to have to have charge homes in Bjelovar and billing homes in Gradec, and then we're going to drive on the fast road Gradec-Sveta Helena, so we're going to jump back on the highway again and we're going to drive on the highway. Also in the traffic strategy is a well-known section of the Križevci-Gradac highway where we will also have charge homes in Križevci and Gradec, and then we will pay tolls and we will be driving on the fast road again. We'll drive again on the fast road. About this amendment says what we promised you, we promised you. And if you want the road and you want the highway, then you can raise your own money and make it yourself. Well, maybe it could've stayed in the state budget of clean money to make billing houses, so we start collecting money to build a fast road or highway from Koprivnica to Gradec and from Bjelovar to Gradec, so when we collect the money, we do it ourselves because that's exactly what this amendment says. Secondly, today's Deputy Prime Minister says in his newspaper and toll roads will be introduced, something completely new. So now we could choose if we wanted a fast road or a freeway. If it were up to us, we would say that maybe the fast road is quite enough because it will ultimately need a little less money to build it during this period. So, unfortunately, here after the great promises again Podravina remains an island. There remains an island, as will be islands here at the reconstruction of roads on the islands, although this applies here to the Pelješke bridge, which is unlike the fast road towards the Križevci and towards Bjelovar is beginning to be built and will, in all likelihood, be reached by Pelješki bridge on Pelješac rather than by any normal road to the Križevci, Bjelovar and Koprivnica. This is totally unacceptable because huge money is collected and left from tolls, i.e. from registration for motor vehicles, from petrol from the Podravina area, Bilogor and Prigorje, and now it is said that there is not enough money for it or that there will never be money. Otherwise, the crisis began at a time when Croatian highways could not get credit for paying debts nor with a state guarantee. Now we've heard that indicated somehow she's been able to patch a hole in this year. So how about 2 billion kunas will be found next year or the next 2 years, 3 years as it promises in 2011 the road in Koprivnica, so it takes 3 billion kunas for the highway to Koprivnica and needs about a billion kuna for the highway to Bjelovar. How are those 4 billion kunas going to be found all of a sudden if 90 million kunas are removed here? Otherwise, it is questionable how to make that road for 90 million kuna, but here again remains Podravina island, it might be good to have a little sea of Panonski returned and build a ferry port and maybe build a bridge to finally reach the normal road to Koprivnica and Bjelovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23025	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would only like to correct the esteemed representative because there is no money left in this budget for payment homes either, but these houses will be built in the spring of 2010, as farmers will also get an increase in incentives in 2010, given that HSS has raised its hand to reduce incentives and to reduce money for agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23027	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative, Vice-President of the House, Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23028	Mr. Vice President, I want to correct Mršić's incorrect allegations that Podravina will remain an island. Podravina will not remain an island because the basis of the agreement between the Croatian roads and highways in the 4th month next year will begin to build highways for Koprivnica and Bjelovar, and that brick he installed the other day from the SDP youth will be taken into account and we will reduce costs. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23029	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's for Amendment 4? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 76 for, 52 against adopted and amendment 4 to the government. No, that was Amendment 4? Yeah. Amendment 5. Government. I'm opening a debate. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic, the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23030	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund are being reduced here. The resources for energy efficiency programmes and specific waste management programmes are reduced. I don't know how much percent and consciousness and whether it's a reflection of some assessment that we don't really have a chance to complete negotiations with the European Union in 2009. Because if that's the case, say so and then we'll give up. Because, as some of you may not know, but many do, we have asked for a series of delays in the chapter of the Environment that we are negotiating with the European Union. That chapter is a chapter that isn't open. This chapter is a chapter where we have not yet received any signal whether our requests for a postponement of the European directives, and in some cases we are looking for completely unrealistic weather, cannot be expected to receive these time delays because no one has received them before us. So in such conditions, assume this amendment that we have already received all of this and that we have negotiated a chapter on the environment so that we can postpone the application of certain directives, namely the preparation of Croatia for the application of the European Union environmental directive where it is completely unserious. In some ways, we are prejudged on the debate we have not yet opened with the European Union, which has not yet been established by the Commission at all, and this is our chapter of the environment. We wanted and were ready to open now in 19th and we argued and are ready to open the chapter on environmental protection on 19th.12 and at the same time in our own budget three days or four before, we cut what we should de facto be the obligation that comes from the precondition for opening that chapter. So, of course, the HNS Club can't support this amendment, and I'm practically warning that it's like a message four days before we expect to open this chapter, a catastrophic message.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23031	On behalf of the SDP representative's club, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23032	Thank you, Your Honor. We cannot support this amendment at the SDP club because the explanation of this amendment is absolutely unsavoury. This amendment proposes reducing the fund's expenditure by 160 million kuna, and we are therefore wondering how it is possible to reduce expenditures if the revenues remain the same. What does that mean? Whether this means that the original financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund in terms of revenue projection was too high and unreal or that some major changes in the fund financing structure were planned in 2009. I believe that it is well known to all of you that the fees from which the fund is being filled are fixed and, if well planned, they should remain the same and therefore there is an important proportion between the currently planned expenditure and what the fund's revenue is planned to do, so in that sense, they would ask me to explain to the Government how this expenditure reduction could have occurred in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23033	Thank you very much. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on Amendment 5 of the Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the majority of votes, 77 votes in favour and 49 votes against, were accepted by the government's amendment number five. We will now make a statement on the other amendments submitted. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shucker, on behalf of the Government. It is the first amendment of the HNS Advocacy Club to the programme of implementation of the national anti-corruption programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23034	The government doesn't accept for a few reasons. The first thing that the funds provided for in this position are sufficient but in the budget explanation we said how much increased the funds of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance for the introduction of a personal identification number. Since, therefore, the three ministries have increased over 140 million kuna compared to last year. So we believe that, because it is not only in this position that these funds will be sufficient. But it is very interesting that we are all in favour of this debate here, too, when we are speaking declareably about being in favour of joining the European Union and NATO then we are all in favour, and here we are supposed to take down the position of the Ministry of Defence which is related to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO and that is one of the reasons why we cannot reduce, why we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23035	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23036	Thank you, Mr. President. It is completely unclear why the government is forecasting to implement a national corruption control programme of 120,000 kuna. If you allegedly took care of it through the other items, what's that 120,000 kuna doing here? It's nothing to do with anything. So either you have a national anti-corruption programme, and then you finance it or you don't have it, so you don't finance it, and it doesn't stick to the pockets of 120,000 kunas around in different places, so you'll see what happens to them. With 120 thousand kuna, it's clear that nothing can be done and no corruption control program, and if you think you've covered it with other items, just say the word. We are abolishing the national anti-corruption programme, and in this case, the symbolic 120 thousand kunas are planning to do something with which, of course, nothing can be done. As far as the defence ministry is concerned, our items mainly apply to him, since even the president of the country is the President of the European Union, Nicoles Sarkozy, explained that some things in exceptional circumstances can be temporarily on hold, and that modernisation in our view of the military will be understandable for everyone to be on hold for a year until Croatia gathers economic strength to bring it out on its own. Otherwise this year you will have this money, and next year you will have nothing for the same army, and NATO sees it, see the European Union. It is therefore more important to create money than to allocate it for consumption at this time. Everyone has accepted that, even in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23037	Thank you very much. Who's for an amendment the government doesn't accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23038	The government does not accept because we consider the funds to be sufficient and another thing with the rise of the 2009 state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23039	Thank you. On behalf of the board? No one. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of Representative Zlatko Koračević?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23040	The government does not accept for the simple reason why it is impossible to change the resources of the PHARE Programme of the European Commission and if they would change the PHARE, and it is impossible for the European Commission to say that they could also implement the PHARE 2006 which was signed, therefore accepted by the European Commission for legalisation of Roma settlements. Therefore, one purely principled reason is that you cannot change the European Commission's resources and decisions through the state budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23041	Thank you. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23042	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this is your explanation, namely, I'm already giving the Roma settlement a fourth year in a row. In those four years, nothing happened in that Roma settlement, literally nothing. Because of the people who live in that Roma settlement, simply my obligation as a parliamentary representative from his III. Election units to potentiate and highlight this problem. This argument of yours that we've had the opportunity to hear and hear, for the fourth year you've been repeating it and in exactly the same formulation. Therefore, if not possible through these means, some others are possible. But believe me, even through those means, it is possible, but it is necessary and necessary for the government's good will. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23043	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23044	The government does not accept, on the basis of the amendment made by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the powers and duties to the units of local self-government and according to how much these officials who have moved from the state administration to local self-government paid in the state administration, so much of the funds has been transferred to local self-government units. We can't transfer the amount of funds these officials have per unit of local self-government, but then there's another question, and that's a big difference in wages between employees in local self-government units and civil servants. And another thing, another answer. We cannot declare that we want to fight corruption and organised crime, and on all amendments, frequent funds or the Ministry of Defence or SOA as proposed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23045	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, please welcome Mr. Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23046	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This amendment was submitted by the IDS Club to the Alliance of Cities and Municipalities initiative. The fact is that the funds provided for here in the state budget are not sufficient for the transferred transactions under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, because they are based on 2007. Here you can see, given that the law was passed in 2008, these funds are not enough to function cities, counties, for transferred jobs, and then we can talk about decentralisation. Decentralisation lowers powers to parts of cities, municipalities, counties, and funds or the Law on the financing of units of local self-government does not change. The fact is that it is necessary to transfer powers, in this case to issue local and construction permits, to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government units. Here, this request, or this amendment, which is given, is that, realistically, the funds needed for cities, counties, for the implementation of this programme, or for covering the cost of issuing local and construction permits in all cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23047	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Five, the HNS rep club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23048	The government doesn't accept for a few reasons. First, this is an elementary ignorance of the functioning of HABOR. With this amendment, HABOR wants to turn back into a parafiscal institution which is simply what it used to be, which we simply don't want and we can't. So, through these 220 million, an interest rate subsidy is contained according to the resolution ministries' programmes. And what we want to do is make it possible for HABOR to borrow next year, as he has done in recent years, and in such a way, through funds that will receive both domestic and foreign capital markets, he is in a position to place funds in the Croatian economy. You know that the European Investment Bank's funds are strictly intended to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, and the basis of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of the Sea, transport and development and regional development programmes subsidise interest on certain projects. Also, the funds received by HABOR from KFE, which is one of the similar banks in Germany, are funds for municipal infrastructure. So it's a model and a way how HABOR can function as a modern investment development bank, not as it functioned a few years ago as a parafiscal institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23049	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, even the Parliament has not voted in favor of savings. The situation isn't what it was. The situation is much worse and much more dangerous and therefore we need, this is something we really need. So what we need is not financing spending that isn't being touched here and financing primarily a repressive apparatus, especially through an army that has nothing to do with fighting corruption, unless you want to suggest that there is corruption in the military. But otherwise, strengthening the army has nothing to do with fighting corruption. It only has to do with strengthening the repressive apparatus at a time when we need the creation of wealth, not the spending of wealth in this way. Therefore, in the creation of wealth if we do not focus on it now and adapt our institutions, and HABOR is a key institution and a potential instrument for this. If we don't adapt our institutions to creating wealth, then we won't have anything to spend and deploy to these other items, I hope not so much more on the repressive apparatus than something more on education that is our great obligation and perhaps some other activities. So, indeed, on behalf of the HNS Club, we urge that this amendment be accepted in order to simply have what to have next years, not to have this in that sense finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23051	But we're not doing parafiscal institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23052	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to ask State Secretary Krunoslav Mesaric on behalf of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, a statement on the 6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23053	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. The funds proposed for the Ministry of Family and Defence for the programme of prisoners and missing for 2009 amounted to 8 million 245 thousand. For exhumations like this year 6 million 748 thousand 500 kuna, support is planned at a million 496 thousand and 500 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23054	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23055	Thank you, Mr. President. So it's clear what this is all about. Just to point out in nine years since I've been in Parliament, no amendments to the opposition have been accepted, and as far as I can remember, no amendments to the parliamentarians at all. But always parties are legitimateized through amendments that suggest a little common sense and happiness is later accepted in another form, but at least people see what it has and what it doesn't make sense when you propose your amendments. This money is obviously meant here as the HNS Club is concerned, for the construction of the defence registry that is necessary. At this moment when a personal identification number has been introduced, it becomes absolutely absurd even more, but now obviously absurd, that half a million people who are registered as defenders are not introduced into the register to become clear what this is about and who it really is, and who aren't really defenders. Since the ministry refuses to do so, and it has been said that the government will appear with its law, and it has not appeared, we propose here to secure funds to finally clear with half a million people who are currently having defence status. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23056	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm asking Madam Secretary of State Tamara Obradović Mazal. And before that, I ask the MPs and the MPs to streamline the work and to get as many explanations as possible, that thanks to the president skip or chair. Here. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević, on amendment seven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23057	The government doesn't accept it for the next reason. Namely, the funds for entrepreneurship zones for the activities listed by A560089 are in the 2009 budget as well as for this year, as has been the practice so far secured in the combined amount. The aggregated amount is allocated on the basis of a public call for funding for all units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government, which means that it is the same for the county. Therefore, after a public call and after the grant of the funds, these funds are naturally located according to entrepreneurship zones. Just for illustration, for the area of the Varazdin County for entrepreneurial zones are allocated funds this year amounting to nearly 6 million kuna. Given that we have allocated funds for entrepreneurship in the following year to approximately the same level we can still expect further investment in the entrepreneurial zones in this case of the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23058	Thank you. Zlatko Koračević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23059	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, thank you anyway for those 6 million, I speak in front of the citizens of the Varazdin County, but at the same time I cannot agree with your explanation because these and these other entrepreneurship zones were and ran for the basis of your announcement of the competition. However, they did not receive funds. I'm talking about an entrepreneurial zone in Mali Bukovac that has had complete prepared documentation for two years, but unfortunately there is no adequate support, and I repeat run and will run again. So with this amendment, we're just trying to let the ministry know that, in addition to those entrepreneurial zones that they have under some other criteria, they have the right to funds that there are others who need it. I am saddening to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23060	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The eighth amendment, the same representative, Mr. Zlatko Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23061	The government does not accept with the same explanation as for amendment seven, since it is identical to amendment seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23062	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23063	So again, without repeating myself, I would like to stress again that the entrepreneurial zone in the municipality of Sracanec that this project and the municipality of Sracanec has run towards the ministry, but the funds have not been approved and this amendment is trying to highlight the need of the Sracanec municipality and the message to the ministry and by some other criteria, some municipalities in the Varazdin County of the age of funds, the age of support from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23064	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The ninth amendment, the same representative of Mr. Zlatko Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23065	The government does not accept the same reasoning as the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23066	Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23067	Thank you very much. In any case, I will ask to vote on this amendment, and this is about encouraging entrepreneurship infrastructure for the Varazdin spa zone, and I expect the support of my colleagues, Czechok and other representatives, because it is just about the Varazdin spas. It has failed to provide the necessary funds for the Varazdin spa economic zone so far, and I think I also think that finally and finally the citizens of the City of Varazdin Spa expect support from the state budget in a project which is of key interest for the development of the City of Varazdinske Spa. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23068	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The tenth amendment, Mr. Agent Goran Beus Reichembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23069	The government does not accept the amendment in this case heading towards the business zone of the Vukovar Field. However, the explanation is identical. The funds for entrepreneurship zones for the planned activities for the following year are secured in the single and united amount to which all entrepreneurship zones are reported located in units of regional, regional self-government and, after a public call for financing of entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23070	Mr. Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23071	It is therefore a business zone in the area of Velika Gorica, for which there is not only complete urban documentation, but also a business partner, i.e. a private investor from abroad who is able and ready to create two thousand new jobs. This isn't about classical investment in the business zone. It's about helping local self-government build local infrastructure. The town of Velika Gorica, which has four business zones in its area, cannot get a single kuna from the state budget and that is unfortunate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23072	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11 amendments to Mr. Zlatko Horvat's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23073	The government doesn't accept. In the name of the restructuring and development activities of certain branches of industry, we include in our budget item a lot more of the processing industries than what suggests the proposed title of the amendment, or the name proposed by the esteemed representative and, in addition, the state support for the promotion of wood industry is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23074	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23075	There is no news and wisdom if I say that the wood industry and especially the textile industry are among the most endangered branches at the moment, and especially what awaits them next year, so I think that without further incentives there will be major problems. I will just remind myself that at the end of 2007, the government adopted a strategy for the development of the textile industry and that the 2008 strategy envisaged 270 million grants and around 220 million credit lines for the textile industry. Of this, all around 100 million were realised and for 2009, the 220 million grants for the textile industry are foreseen. Of course, it is about saving jobs, and I think that the additional incentives should be necessarily secured, by the fact that this amendment does not provide for any additional funds but only changes the item and the funds remain the same. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23076	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12 amendments to MP Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23077	The government doesn't accept. Namely, according to the current needs assessed for next year and according to the balance sheet of the strategic stock funds proposed in this item, the Government estimates as sufficient for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23078	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23079	I have submitted this amendment with the aim of making the citizens of the Republic of Croatia feel safer and more secure if there will be problems such as natural disasters, environmental disasters and similar troubles that can happen to us and in which situations we need filled goods reserves. With this amendment, he only wanted to partially supplement the supply of goods on the trail of the Government of Croatia's 2004 decision that they would be at the level of a billion and 100 million kuna. That year was 649 million, 2005. 530 million, 2006. 400 million, 2007. 218 million, so 6 times less than what the Government of the Republic of Croatia said in 2004. Apparently math doesn't work. Whether it is only mathematics, numbers or the Republic of Croatia can feel secure in situations of natural disasters, environmental disasters, and so on I leave it to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23080	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23081	The government doesn't accept. Namely, the funds for the compensation of the technical surplus workers are included in the grants to the unemployed and at the position of A68 9014 benefits to the unemployed. Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23082	Thank you. On behalf of the club Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23083	So it's something everyone's silent about and it's clear to everyone that it's going to happen and it's people who are going to lose their jobs in shipyards. Now you can see it more clearly than ever. Of course, there are other possible sources but Croatia has not applied for them. Within the European Union, there are funds that can be helped to provide people who will also be overqualified, etc. People who are going to lose their jobs in shipbuilding and we don't need to fool ourselves anymore and don't need to stick their head in the sand, it won't be less than 10,000 people, and maybe there will be more. Therefore, we are entering a year in which we are aware that so many people are going to lose their jobs and we are not preparing for it, we have not asked the European Union for funds, and now we are not putting resources into our own budget is really irresponsible. Therefore, we believe that no matter what the government has pushed its head into the sand or simply did not want to admit that so many people are going to lose their jobs in shipbuilding by now, because it has become white for everything that has gone out of sight around shipbuilding and that it is minimum responsibility to provide for some of the resources that these tens of thousands of people will take care of and how it will help them. As far as the Department of Defense is concerned, for example, it has military land. This is one possible source of income if the land now owned by the Ministry of Defence were systematically re-used and re-scheduled so that they could possibly prepare themselves for a blow that will inevitably come. And if we have a little responsibility, I ask you to prepare ourselves in some way to take care of the people who are going to lose their jobs in shipbuilding. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23084	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I pray to Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go. 14 amendments to a representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23085	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, issued a public invitation to finance the programme in culture. That programme has not been reported and cannot be accepted as such. Otherwise, the Ministry of Culture set aside 2007 for the reconstruction of this home unlike the city in Lower Lomnica. 280 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23086	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23087	First of all, Mr. Minister, it's not right to tell a lie. The biggest stake in the current construction costs of this home has just been given by the town of Velika Gorica and I do not understand how it is possible that the ministry has helped so far without the competition, so I suggest that since it is a unique case in which the citizens of Donja Lomnica are one of the largest Turopolian villages with their own work by collecting sponsoring funds and with the assistance of the city of Velika Gorica so far have reached the level of 75-80% of completion of this great facility to consider, however, and to co-finance from the ministry's funds as parent. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23088	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15 amendments to the same representative of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23089	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture reports in accordance with the Law on the financing of the public needs of the public call, that programme is not notified at the invitation. Within the framework of the programme of protection, the Ministry of Culture is funding a programme of the work of Nature Park Lonjsko polje, which in its work cycle cares and maintains, editing facilities in Cigoč. The Ministry of Culture also funded the reconstruction of indigenous traditional facilities in Cigoč and not only in Cigoč.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23090	Thank you, Mr. Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23091	Since this is an extraordinary event, the European Village of Roda Cigoč will host all European villages from our continent after 15 years of the declaration of that status. So that's something you couldn't run for the program. It is, therefore, a event that will cast a voice about our village of Rod, which is among the first in Europe With the help of the ministry, I hope, and don't rely too much on the nature park itself because he doesn't have enough resources, so it would be very good for the Ministry of Culture to be a partner here and, in that sense, please vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: With the help of the ministry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23092	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th Amendment of Mr Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23093	The amendment is not accepted. The ministry calls under the Law on the financing of public needs, this programme is registered on a public call, will be discussed and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23094	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23095	Thank you very much. Here, I'm glad to hear that the program for which I'm submitting this amendment has been reported and I want to believe that it will be adequately supported. Namely, for preservation, or better said rescue of Arboratum and the castle in bricks of vinica. This is the third year I've submitted that amendment, this is an extremely large shift to hear from the ministry's representatives that the programme has been reported, so there's a chance. And I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, that before these last parliamentary elections, the third electoral unit was your election base, and it was you who promised to the citizens of Vinica, the support of the Ministry of Conservation and Revetelisation of the Arboretteum of brick vinica. We expect you to give that support, too, but for the safety of this amendment, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23096	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 17th amendment of Mr. Goran Beus-Richembergh's representative, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23097	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the law on archival... and archives, state archives are established by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In line with the programme of archival activity, state archives are established for the county area. Local self-government and administration units can establish an archive. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia cannot establish the Turopolje archive in accordance with the above law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23098	Thank you. Mr. Goran Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23099	I am sorry that the two Ministers of Turopolje failed to convince the government that this is the end of an incredibly rich cultural historical heritage in which a large amount of archival building is being destroyed. And this is not about the state being co-founder, but about seeking symbolic help from local self-government in establishing the Turopoly archives as the new cultural institutions of the Turopolj region. It is a huge structure which is currently unexplored, unexplored, and among other things it is also photographs where it is estimated that there are more than 50,000 negatives that we cannot see at all because they are completely inadequately taken care of and it is also a large archival structure and photography that exists in the judicial archives, as well as family archives in Turopolje. I'm sorry the ministry doesn't give a hand in establishing such a valuable local culture facility. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23100	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 18th Amendment of the same representative, Mr. Goran Beusa-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23101	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for a public call. That programme has not been notified and cannot be accepted as such. In the programme for the protection of monumental heritage, the Ministry financed the reconstruction of the buildings of the wooden architecture of Turopolje, the Church of St. Barbara in the Great Milk 150 grand,... Bedekovici, Donjo Lomnica with 200, Church in Bushevec with 720, Vodenica... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] with 100, Church in Gustelnica with 60, traditional building Lukinić hill with 30, Church in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The church in Novi Cichi with 70, the Church in Veleshevec with 40 and the Chapel in Great Jamnik with 50 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Within the framework of the cultural protection programme, everything that is otherwise declared to be a regular programme will be considered and certain decisions will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23102	Thank you. Mr. Beus-Richembergh please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23103	Thank you to the great culture ministry that invests funds in the restoration of sacral heritage. This is about top cultural monuments, world heritage, first of all Kurijama Jelačić and Josipović in Velika Gorica and protecting several capital Chardac in Buševec and Marklin, unfortunately so far the Ministry of Culture has had no funds and I am sorry that it does not recognise the value of that part of our construction heritage. Because chapels and churches may be the most important part of this heritage but certainly they are not the only ones and are certainly the minority of other objects. And as the wooden architecture of Turopolje is preserved, the fact that what remains of it in the villages of the Turopolj region is being destroyed daily. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23104	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Minister of God's Bishop. And please, Mr. Minister Bozidar Pankretić, a statement on the 19th Amendment of Representative Goran Beus-Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23105	Thank you very much. This amendment is not accepted. We founded this year the Croatian Horsefaring Center... which is the main task of coordinating the implementation of breeding and genetic improvement of the equine breed in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And given that he has spent many years supporting the breeding of the original and protected breeds of animals and thus the breeds of the horse Hrvatski Posavac, we believe that this is now one advance this year. And we will see in the future whether it is necessary only for Posavac to establish something when the Croatian Horseman's Centre works in the full sense of the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23106	Mr. Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23107	In view of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has been pushing for an amazing way for years only and exclusively to raise Lipipians and to ask why the indigenous type of Croatian Posavec is being neglected, this effort by the Posavec breeder, who has more than 60 throats, and among other things, the throats of top quality, is actually an effort that has earned the support of all three levels of government and local and county and state. It is a state land where it is possible to establish a breeding centre that would cover the area of Posavina and Turopolje, certainly not the entire Posavina in which the Croatian horse is grown. But it would be more than good if the Ministry of Agriculture also gave hands to both the county and the city, and especially to the very section of the growers of the Croatian planter to be controlled with professional assistance and with supervision in one place can actually provide full support to all breeders of this valuable species, which is extremely quality and extremely attractive and by which our Republic is certainly more recognized than by the Lipicans. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23108	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23109	The government does not accept this amendment, as Mr. MP has made a wrong amendment. He missed, because it's about the other ministry. Therefore, this is no longer part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, but another ministry, and for formal reasons we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23110	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23111	It is clear that the ministry covering rural development throughout the entire range of projects is also monitoring the development of local infrastructure in rural areas. Therefore, if the Ministry of Agriculture had a wish, it would certainly be included in the project to build the disposal of the Lower Turopoly where there are eight large technical economic units that connect as many as 16 villages with an extremely rural environment, rural characteristics. Therefore, since the Turopol villages are indeed in the rural part, I regret that the Ministry of Agriculture, or rural development, has no hearing to support the construction of the drain in Lower Turopoly. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23112	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 21st amendment of the same representative, Goran Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23113	This amendment is also not accepted by the Government for a simple reason, since there is a tender for the implementation of this part of rural infrastructure and for all those interested and those interested in rebuilding the old school building, the social home in the Upper Great must report to the competition. Therefore, when the tender will be announced to them, the possibility of reporting is open. If it will meet the conditions, it may also go to the competition and get these funds that are requested here, and in this form it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23114	Thank you. Mr. Goran Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23115	That's exactly what this is about, Mr. Minister. This is a classic trap. Namely, the building is owned by the state and you can't expect local self-government to have something that isn't its property running for your ministry, because you would immediately disqualify such an application. It is therefore a proposal that the old school in the Upper Great in the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari, which reminds it of the municipalities in the area of special public care, is a very poor municipality that has no own income that could make such a thing into a social home, because it now stands and collapses, and could also be a location for gathering hunters who come from all over Croatia to their hunting territory which, of course, they do not own. In that sense, recognising the need of a local rural community in the Upper Great would be more than good, not waiting for someone else to, I don't think you think Minister Primorac would run for a reshuffle of this old school. Therefore, I ask that an amendment be voted upon which the building of the social home in the Upper Great is actually reconstructed from an existing old school abandoned and spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23116	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 22nd amendment of Mr. Zlatko Koracevic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23117	The government also does not accept this amendment. I'd say the answer is very similar to this one. Yes, if we were to support the development of the village and the rural space and the construction of a mini-milkarian in that part. However, it is well known that this is also the case in measure 6 which was called for in the competition this year and of course I sincerely believe if the programme is to be met, if it will be well done, that it has a chance that this year will also go to that end. However, it is not possible to reserve funds in particular on the item, but it is necessary to carry out the tender as it stands in the Ministry Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23118	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23119	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your instructions. It's safe, it's safe to run for the project. The very fact that you yourself said that there is a chance for us is saying that this will be your publicly expressed support and directed towards the project. But I want to say that farmers in the Varazdin County have been working for many years, dealing with agricultural production primarily because of enthusiasm. Because with the support and conditions provided by the Resort Ministry, they definitely don't have the opportunity for a stronger step. In particular with this project, the town of Ivanec, the town of Lepoglava, the municipality of Bednja and the municipality of Klenovnik are financing the construction of a mini-milkara in which farmers, producers from the area, will give their milk. Because Vindia as a major system in this area is not interested and it is simply one possibility that those agricultural productions they have to create additional value from it. I believe that, as you said yourself, there is a chance that you will turn these odds into a concrete act. Be assured that these cities and these municipalities will also be responsible through the project in your competition to satisfy those formal matters. I'm asking for a vote for safety, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23120	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the minister. I ask Minister Petar Cobankovic to be shown about the amendments. First, the 23rd amendment of Mrs. Zdenka Cuhnil's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept the amendments for reasons because the renewal of detailed water sequestration and irrigation melioration structures or a simpler said channel network of third and fourth order is financed by water compensation, and they are included in the water management plan brought by Croatia and where significantly larger, larger financial resources are provided for the implementation of these activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23122	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23123	This year, these days, we were just discussing the Water Economy Financing Act, which should be passed, as well as the Water Act, where all these obligations just maintenance of buildings are being passed on to the district self-government, in other words to the county. Since this is the process that will take place, since only after that will the county issue a melioration fee, i.e. a melioration discharge fee. I think this year we still had to keep funding from the budget to hand over those buildings in quality condition because we're going to lose one year again. We know what happened during the floods, during the absence of such systems. It was certainly suggested here to kill the redistribution from positions, normal irrigation which is a very important measure and we didn't want to reduce, but this year that 10 million would mean a lot in this position. Since the government does not accept it, I am withdrawing that amendment, but the consequences will surely be borne together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23124	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 24th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23125	The amendment is not accepted and let me say that the integrated development programme of the local community is all funded by the European Investment Bank's loan and the state budget of 50, 50%. The programme began in 2006 when units of local self-government were called to nominate sub-projects. The period of nomination of sub-projects has passed, the programme is being implemented, as I said since 2006 and will end in 2009 and it is no longer possible to propose and nominate new projects. For these reasons, the amendment is not accepted, and the city of Buzet has not nominated this sub-project as its project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23126	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23127	Let's let go of these 2006 nominations. This is the 2009 budget, Mr. Minister. The border crossing near Buzet is desirable. This is the most frequent freight crossing in Istria, which the Slovenian authorities re-tegrated 10 months ago in a way that can no longer be transported by all trucks, but only trucks up to 7 tonnes. The road is, normally in one catastrophic state, but what matters is when we talk about this 2009 budget that this road also has a political message. I like to say that Slovenians, not Slovenians, are consciously insulating us. Whether it's a road trip to Buzet, Bujama, Rijeka, I suppose it is at some other border crossings. But to say, now and on the Croatian side, let the gentlemen do, start building roads towards the Republic of Croatia, and then someone here needs to build adequate roads, as I would say. I am not, to be honest, a great optimist in Croatian-Slovenian relations. These Croatian-Slovenian relations, unfortunately as authorities change in Slovenia from year to year, are getting worse. These relationships are worse today than they were during Jansa. During Janša were worse relations with Croatia than during Rope, during the Rob worse than during Drnovšek and so on. But I am really asking you to try to provide adequate resources so that we can say that we can send a message to Ljubljana do not traffic isolation of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23128	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 25th Amendment of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23129	The amendment shall not be accepted with a justification similar to the previous amendment. This is the 2009 budget, but according to the EIB or the European Investment Bank, the sub-projects had to be nominated, they had to pass the period of application and proposed that they could go into realisation. The projector or sub-projects were units of local self-government and for these reasons we cannot accept this amendment. The project can be financed from the funds of local self-government and by co-financing of Croatian waters, of course depending on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation and the resulting building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23130	Now, Mr. Minister, if this could be financed from the local budget, that sewerage in the old town of Buzet would already be over. On the other hand, let us not be deceived here, Istria is not paying in the budget of Brussels or the European Union, but in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and now it would be logical to expect that some of the funds will finally begin to return. I claim, one kuna that comes back, doesn't give, returns from the state budget, and Istria brings 10 other kunas back to the state budget. Never in the history of the City of Buzet received from the state a single budget kuna in a way that we were represented in the budget and I'm just asking myself a question when are we going to break that tradition? Come on well, I agree something came from Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads and so on, but probably that city that probably has the largest export in the Republic of Croatia, over 20 thousand dollars or something contributes to the state budget, so it would be normal for someone to swear and return. This year, Istria is represented by only 37 million kuna capital investments in the state budget or County. Well, it's not that small, it's nothing, because I'm saying that from the County of Istria the state budget goes to at least 10 billion kuna. Okay, something's coming back for pensions, some public sector wages and so on, but it would be a turn to finally start treating us as is treated by the City of Zadar or Zadar County, Split County, Dubrovnik County or some other in the Republic of Croatia. I am so normally asking Mr. Representatives to give up their hands to confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23131	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 26th Amendment of the same club IDS?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23132	The government does not accept this amendment with the reasons I said in the previous 2 amendments. There are certain rules of play and there are those who are competent in a certain period of time to propose certain projects. Unfortunately, here for this project Pula did not propose during the period when it was necessary to propose the project. Pula, the City of Pula did not propose this project. For these reasons, the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23133	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23134	Your Honor, you reject the amendments, you have no quorum in the council.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23135	Thank you. Check the quorum. Here you go. 72 MPs. I'm asking the clubs to be organized. We'll wait five minutes. If there's no quorum then we'll wait until there's a quorum. Looks like we're gonna have an extraordinary session, so what we love is what we're gonna get. Otherwise, I would like to inform the Parliament that I am in consultation with the clubs that I owe under Article 197 and that I will call an extraordinary session in the morning if we do not finish this program today. Once you find out there's 81, we move on. Mr. Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the club or Mr. Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the fact is that life goes forward and in 2006 is long after us to run for some project in the budget, first of all, to solve property relations, to solve project documentation, to have a quality project that can be run. I can today say that in Istria County a merger with the Istrian Ipsion, a circular flow of entrances to Pula and a pulse bypass is the biggest traffic problem in our county. I'm not just saying this because of the daily traffic, but you know very well that very strong economic operators are located in the city itself, like the town's Uljannik shipyard. It is also unnecessary to say how much tourist traffic is sent down the road in the summer and the detour to the south of Istria itself. So I'm saying, we're not looking for all the money for this bypass, we're looking for co-financing of the biggest traffic problem in Istria County, and I can't accept the fact that just saying 2006 could run, today it's too late. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23137	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27 amendments to Mr. Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23138	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons similar to the previous amendments. It is a programme for the integrated development of the local community or so on. The EIB2 that is the nomination period has passed and the only authority to nominate sub-projects for this programme have been units of local self-government. Unfortunately, at best we cannot accept the current proposals because they are in line with the agreement signed with the European Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23140	Dear Mr. Minister, it is a proposal to resuscitate the county road on the Borjević-Gornja Lovca stock in one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that is the municipality of Donji Kukurisari in Sisak-Moslavina County. So we are not asking for any funding from the European Bank, and I ask you not to deceive the public in this regard. It's about supporting the county road management that can't finance a project like this on its own. It is a space with a large number of settlers, with a large number of returnees in which economic activity cannot be developed unless such development is supported. I'm just wondering if you'll ever adopt any amendments to local self-government where HDZ is not in power. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23141	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28 amendments to the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23142	The government does not accept this amendment. Activities in the category of county roads are not part of the work and competence of this ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23143	Thank you. Mr. Beus Richemberg.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23144	Interestingly, we have two different interpretations for two almost the same amendment. It is a fact that when you need 22.6. everyone from the state top goes to the forest Bezovica to show how you are all anti-fascists today, and when you need that road you're driving to pave the way for, and that's the road that goes through the forest on the part of Gusce-Pignička two big villages in Lonjsko Polje, then of course you forget that we're anti-fascists, and then we don't want to show others what kind of roads all the people in Lonjsko Polje and Sisak-Moslavina County are driving. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23145	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29 amendments to the same representative, Mr. Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23146	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the town of Long Village for realisation through the project of integrated development of the local community nominated a sub-project for the construction of the sports school hall and accordingly the project goes into realisation. The project cannot be traced from the funds of the integrated development of the regional community, the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23147	Thank you. Mr. Beus Richemberg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23148	Mr. Minister, I don't know if we're reading the same document. I don't know who you have, this is about building a road overpass in Long Village, and not some sports halls and it's about one very important thing, I was hoping that you'd brought down power in Long Village, that you'd be in power now to help people out there, because it's one of the biggest developmental problems in the whole area because that multi-collective railroad on Rugwick Street that connects now the retegrated road D41 that passes downtown with the exit on the E70 highway. It is extremely important to build overpasses because huge traffic plugs are being created. Well, since you've already set yourself up for increased concern in Long Village by destroying legally elected power, it's your turn to help these people with some means. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23149	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 30 amendments to Mr. Zlatko Korachevic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23150	The amendment is not accepted, the project will be financed by the Croatian Waters and local self-government, depending on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation and upon the outcome of the building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23151	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23152	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I must say publicly, and that is the generally known thing, that you are one of the few ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia with one strong and content experience in managing a single local and regional self-government. So you know the problems and you have clear problems and troubles when you have to realize and address the needs of citizens because your citizens have given you confidence, and you simply cannot. This water supply project was run three years ago and two years ago and a year ago, and I want to take advantage of your opportunity and read your secretary of state's explanation on this year's state budget, which was: The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment with the argument that the programme will be financed by the resources of Croatian waters of local self-government units, depending on the degree of completion of the heavy documentation and resulting building permits. Therefore, the exact same explanation that you have now given me, and I want to warn you, and I ask you and check, this project meets all of these prescribed technical and technical documentation and has a building permit and for three years it has been running in turn, but there is no realisation. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23153	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31st Amendment, IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23154	The amendment is not accepted. Set up water installations or so-called "water" installations. The local network is in charge of funding local self-government with co-financing of Croatian waters through the Croatian Water Management Plan. The project co-financed depends and depends on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation and on the building permits that have been issued.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23155	Earlier, the minister said certain rules of conduct should be followed. What does that look like? Some work, and some other budget money spend. According to the minister, this investment is an installation of the Lovran municipality in the jurisdiction of Lovran municipality and that co-financing of Croatian waters can be sought. We want to put just an emphasis on this, co-financing of Croatian waters because the rudely few funds are returning, and on the other hand almost everything that is achieved in that area of the municipality of Lovran, etc., Opatija's income is the state budget. Please vote on the amendment in question and I want to believe that the MPs will be in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23156	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Please control the quorum and as soon as the quorum is lost, warn me, you know so that no MPs have to count here. The 32nd Amendment, Mr. Agent Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23157	The amendment shall not be accepted with a similar explanation as in the previous amendment. The local water network and the local water containers are in charge of local self-government units and are co-financed through the Croatian Water Management Plan from Croatian Waters. So, the unit of local self-government is required to prepare investment and technical documentation, to produce the necessary building permits and ask for co-financing of Croatian waters. It is a bit surprising that a city like Velika Gorica, which has a budget of about 300 million kuna, has so far not solved the issue of the recovery of this water tower.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23159	Dear Mr. Minister, you've been misprepared again, you're speaking in the woods again, and I'm speaking in the road. This is a water tower building, and in it for several decades the state-owned company Croatia's electricity company has been destroying the building's armature and endangering people's lives. So it's not a water container or a water network, it's a big chimney owned by a state-owned company that destroys a building that houses several hundred people in Velika Gorica. So, expecting them to be the owners of their apartments whose actions have diminished the value of the property, they themselves finance the reconstruction of their building is hypocritical. It is that the state is responsible because the Croatian electricity industry in its boiler room uses the worst, most aggressive heating fuel and that is the source of the problem leading to the collapse of the entire building, and when that happens, God will not give it to you, then you will know who is to blame. Not local self-government or citizens living in it, but those who ignore the fact that the state does not care about the consequences of its companies in behaviour, therefore, in such joint buildings as this building. It's not the water problem, it's not the citizens' problem, it's the chimney problem, it's the fuel problem, the problem is huge damage because it's eating up the whole building. It's a mockery of the city because of the state's irresponsibility. And here we are asking that the state submit its share of responsibility and financial assistance to the recovery of this building. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23160	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 33rd amendment, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23161	The amendment is not accepted. The project will be financed by the Croatian Waters and local self-government, depending on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation and according to the resulting building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23162	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I think every comment is too much for this explanation that you said yourself, because the same, same text and content I heard a year ago and two years ago. And I would like to remind you that this is a recovery, not a construction but a recovery of the Bojčevac-Hrastovec transport pipeline, a pipeline that was just destroyed by the state by highway construction and the state took over, better said the Croatian highways made a commitment five years ago in terms of the recovery of the transport pipeline. Until today, five years have passed, nothing has happened, and I repeat this is the third time that through the amendment, I am trying to create conditions for Croatia's leadership to do their part of the co-financing work, literally in co-financing because the documentation and construction permits have already been in place for three years. I'm afraid the building permit will have to be renewed because it's past or out of date. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23163	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34th Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23164	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because there is no need to accept it since the project is the construction of the vilica and Maruševec demining systems, as part of the construction of the Varazdin-Novi Marof drain system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23165	Thank you. Mr. Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23166	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, your finding that the amendment is not accepted because there is no reason to accept it in part is clear to me. However, I must warn you, your associates that there is nothing, but literally nothing because of objective geographical barriers. There is no possibility that the Vinica-Marušec draining system can be connected to the Varazdin-Novi Marof disposal system where it is about an area that is gradually distanced from each other about 15 km, 20 km away. I'm really sorry your associates miswarned you, completely illogically. And I personally understand that both these amendments and these amendments to my colleagues as ministers have the willingness to support them, but I also understand your real danger in running your ministry, which is a blockade from other ministries and public enterprises in terms of common synergy in building these projects for which we submit the amendments. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23167	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 30th amendment, representative of Mr Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23168	The amendment is not accepted, for the simple reason, because we have complete records of those who need assistance for these items, means care for exiles, returnees, and we are also planned to meet the needs of what is planned. So there's no need to increase this item based on all of those I'd say the exact indicators we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23169	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23170	Mr. Minister, in areas of Okucan, Voćin, Dvor, Kostajnica, Gline, Vojnić, Krnjak, Gračac and Knin live thousands of immigrants, returnees, settlers from the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Kosovo, Vojvodina and other parts. We've been there and we've been to see these people. There's a lot of writing in the paper, and we've seen these people there in person. And they have big problems about buying their houses that are offered on credit, which are people who don't work anywhere, they don't have any income, and that's the things that torture them very much. In the end, we will experience that the people who came here who, in some sense, are the demographic foundations of these rural areas, will move to other countries. So will she. I don't know what we're gonna do with those ends then. So, I think that there could be room for the funds that I have proposed, so the King Zovnimir Fund is forecasting 56 million kuna, I have suggested an increase to 96 million kuna, but unfortunately let these people hear that this amendment will pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23171	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thirty-sixth Amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23172	The amendment is not accepted, indicating that Croatian waters will co-finance the production of project documentation, which is a presumption of any other further activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23173	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23174	Mr. Minister, you are our only Slavonian representative and would certainly have run you from our county and the city of Slavonski Brod and Nova Gradiška for the Nobel Prize if any Slavonic project had passed. Unfortunately, that's not the case. You know that the town of Nova Gradiška has a total income per capita of 2 thousand and 20 kuna. So Slavonia is a gray zone of this country, Slavonia and Baranja, and Nova Gradiška is not gray, but a black zone of both the county and Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, I think I'm asking for a vote on this and I should support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23175	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 30th Amendment of Mr. Representative Bora Grubisic, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23176	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is addressed to the wrong address and the wrong ministry. So, state roads are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, but as far as I'm aware of Croatian roads lead activities related to the resolution of this facility, the road facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23177	Thank you. Mr. Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23178	Thank you very much. In fact, it is about crossing over the 10th pan-European railway corridor in Slavonski Brod, so to speak. Osijek... the zones that passed know well, that it was a state road, a state road number 423 and that it passed it daily, so that ramp, a train crossing of 15 thousand and 300 vehicles. Slavonski Brod is divided into two parts by railway line and train station. There are only two crossings across the railway and for 18 years the Croatian state, so it has become a minor, we cannot solve the problem, regardless of what is in the county the vertical authorities, so HDZ in the county, HDZ in the state. It is true that the Croatian roads have opened a tender for an idea project and elaborate on this transition, but in Slavonski Brod, it is very hurrying to finish it and finally get it. So I'm asking you again as Slavonic Minister, to do everything and I'd like to ask HDZ parliamentary representatives to work on this, not to perform individually. [[Intruder: It's done.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23179	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thirty-eight amendments, Agent Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23180	The amendment is not accepted for reasons as I have already said in one of the previous amendments, it provides a local water network and water supplies in the jurisdiction of local self-government, and that they are built out of local self-government funds with co-financing of Croatian waters, of course if there are prepared investment technical documentation and outcome building permits, then they can contact Croatian waters for co-financing of these activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23181	Thank you. Mr. Ricnembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23182	Dear Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you won't take this opportunity to get out of a very awkward situation. Namely, you as minister is your secretary of state, and together with the president of the Croatian Waters Administration, have brought a very unfortunate situation, because they have promised an illegal concession to one non-existent company, for a water draw concession in Kosnica and promised that they will build a system of draining of the eastern part of Zagreb County, and you know it has nothing to do with each other. The man is in conflict of interest because the president of the administration of a state firm and a member of the headship of one of the county is practically giving himself that concession and gives positive opinions to your ministry and I don't know if you knew that he signed a positive opinion on that concession and sent it to the government in October. Minister, don't be fooled, you'd be better off financing from the budget of such infrastructure facilities than being put into such an awkward situation by your associates. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23183	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank Minister Cobankovic. Thank you. I call on State Secretary Zeljko Tufekčić on behalf of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Amendment 39 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23184	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, construction and rehabilitation of the county ports is in the jurisdiction of the county and county budgets while the state budget only provides part of the co-financing funds. However, given that the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 09 and in the division of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure there is a budgetary position of A570219 to restructure sub-building and upgrade facilities in ports open to public transport in the area of County and with the planned amount of €45 million, there is no need to create a specific position for the same purpose and within the resources available, investment priorities will be set out in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23185	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club, Mr Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23186	I just want to warn you that we recently had a chance to see when the sea rises, when our waterfronts swim, when property is threatened, which means it. Here, this is what we've requested for the rehabilitation and construction of the harbour in the Istrian County. I'm going to look back at the city's harbor in Pula, which has yet to be built by Austria-Hungarian years ago. He was protecting the city, never finished until the end, but his condition is now such that simply this water, the sea threatens the city of Pula. I don't think that's the infrastructure that the city itself can build. I remind you, it's been built for over a hundred years in Austria-Hungarian times, we've done the part that's on us, we've done all the necessary documentation to a valid building permit. It is not fully funded but co-financing that this amount cannot be reconstructed and therefore I ask that we make a statement about it. I think it's really about time we saw what it means when the sea level rises and cities just swim. I think that's enough warning and this should be taken seriously. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23187	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40 amendments to MP Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23188	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted because we cannot accept the proposed reduction of resources to the A570323 activities and this is to encourage regular maritime, passenger and high-speed lines. Namely, the Government of Croatia's decision to maintain state lines in public coastal maritime transport since 5 December 2008 increased the number of additional trips by more than 3,000 while additional nautical miles increased by more than 99,000 compared to the 2006 decision. In view of the fact that the above-mentioned increase in shipping volume affects the additional costs of maintaining public coastal liner traffic, it is also contained in the planned amount of subsidies on this activity so that we cannot reduce the required 108 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23189	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23190	I am really fascinated by this explanation that only because we have asked for a reduction from the wrong item that you do not accept this construction and this is about the need for the final completion of highway construction from Zapresic to Macelj, which is unfortunately built from 3.7 kilometers in the semi-profile, which leads to great crowds and traffic hazards and I will remind you that the average annual daily traffic on that highway is exceeding 17 thousand vehicles and in summer and over 35,000 vehicles. That story wouldn't be so hard and we wouldn't be asking at this point for a recession to do it now when citizens of the Krapina-Zagorian County but also all other drivers traveling that highway are not drastically punished by this trip. The road from Zapresic to Macelj for 50km is 39 kuna. Compared to the same length of the highway from Zagreb to Karlovac I think it is 15 or 16 kuna. One road and more than one road higher toll than in any part of Croatia on any other highway. I think that's what the state tells the citizens of Krapina-Zagorian County, of course, primarily that they are citizens of the second order.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23191	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41 amendments to a representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23192	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the requested project of reconstruction of the county road near the settlement Gradici and Donja Lomnica is in the jurisdiction of the county administration on the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23193	From the county roads in Zagreb County, 120km of waste on the town of Velika Gorica. The County Road Administration is able to give about 2.5 million a year for extraordinary maintenance without talking about that there are no reconstructions, although Velika Gorica generates about 30% of the total budgets collected in Zagreb County. Unfortunately, since you have been slowing down the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway for more than a year and a half, although the highway is built only in the area of the town of Velika Gorica, this alternative important direction through Gradića and Lomnica is not the case. The town of Velika Gorica spent more than 7 million kunas in the rehabilitation of the county roads only this year. So as long as the city has to actually do other people's jobs and it's known that this road has been particularly injured because of construction jobs... So when you can't finish that road in no time, and I hear, they tell me from the HSS Club that the highway construction dynamic has been moved in a few months for each stage, at least give us a chance to normally drive in an alternative direction that passes through the largest village of Turopolje. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23194	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 42 amendments to Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23195	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, whose positions are proposed to position the construction of a farewell building at the new city cemetery in Velika Gorica, is not responsible for building facilities of municipal and social infrastructure outside the island and coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23196	.../The speaker is not on, you can't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23197	It is a unique case of a new city cemetery in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, no one in the last 15 years and the next 15 years is likely to build a new city cemetery in the Republic of Croatia. It is known that the city had to protect the area needed for 100 years, as the regulations say. It is known that he has adopted a detailed plan of arrangements, it is known that he has adopted a detailed plan of arrangements, it is known that he had to give the state 9 million and 600 thousand kuna for the land on which the cemetery is to be built, and this is a unique case throughout the country that the city must pay for a country which is otherwise a state in '47. She took the land communities in Velika Gorica so she could bury her own citizens. And now, since this is about the biggest project of such a type, that it is about the farewell structure within which the religious object is also wanted and we ask for co-financing, if you don't want it either, I'm glad that you said it publicly and that the Velgorecans know that this project from the state won't get a single June. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23198	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 42nd Amendment of the same representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23199	The amendment is not accepted. Well, the answer is very similar to the last one. Namely, the capital project T761013 construction of water supply systems as well as the proposed project on your part is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23200	Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23201	It cannot be an eclative example of infrastructure and greater shame for the state that 100 thousand people living in the eastern Zagreb County, in the Sesveta area, have no problem with drinking water. And once again, you tried to solve this problem by giving an illegal concession to a non-existent company in order to draw water from the source of Črenkovec, i.e. Kosnica alimony of the means to build this system and you did not want to assume the commitment of such a large regional procedure as you do in areas where HDZ is in power. I'm sorry you're so approachable, that you have such a selective approach. Because these are projects for which there are complete documentation and complete costs in the lip. But let the citizens of Long Selo, Vrbovac, Zeline, and the Sesveda also know that their motherland is a burning problem in this of them. Because they are the only neighborhood in Croatia, such large conglomerates, 100 thousand inhabitants, who are struggling at the beginning of the 20th century to have drinking water, as if they live in Saudi Arabia and not in the middle of the region where the largest waterbenders are. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23202	Who's in favour of this amendment? Otherwise, the Councils are in Zagreb. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44th Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23203	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous one, so the realization of the requested project is not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23205	Unfortunately, I don't think it's even within the jurisdiction of the Ministry, family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, but that didn't stop Mrs. Jadranka Kosor from setting up a rock foundation for that bridge. So it's not clear to us that everything's healed up in the schizo, no one can even find the cornerstone for building that bridge anymore. Help us get to him, see where the bridge was going to be built. Because I'm sure the minister wouldn't have laid a cornerstone if all the documentation projects and all the permits were not completed. If that's the case, what's waiting for you? Let the people build the promised bridge. The bridge is one of the most important infrastructure facilities in Sisak-Moslavina County and you say you don't know any of it. So let me ask the minister maybe her ministry is competent. And please, as you do not allow us to throw, in that you are absolutely right, give some discipline and some members of the government, because we will still need considering.../The speaker has shut down, and then it turned on/... and if you have any medication on the lager, it might help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23206	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Otherwise, I would like to thank Mr. Richemberg for his systematic counseling. 45th Amendment of Mr Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23207	The amendment is not accepted. So the adoption of the National Programme for Railway Infrastructure, the Croatian Parliament has set the level of funds to address security problems at rail road crossings at the level. In this way, the 2009 State budget and through the position of modernisation and construction of railway infrastructure, among other things, the amount for the resolution of railway road crossings to... The available amount will set priorities for 2009 and there is no need to single out a specific GCP as a separate project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23208	Here you go, Mr. Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23209	Thank you very much. I regret to say again that, that this same amendment, the same problem through the amendments to the State budget, I have been stressing for three years in a row and this argument that we heard from Mr. Secretary of State, is something different, and now the funds are already being provided and there is a chance. I want to remind you that this is about the railway crossing on the track, on the road... in the area of the city of Novi Marof, and at the same time I want to remind you that one by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you took over together with the coalition partners and the leadership of the Varazdin County, I want to remind you of the obligation to solve this problem and finally and that project in the state budget gets its own space for the final solution, which I am talking about, in person for three years and the citizens have been for a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23210	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr... and I call on Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go. 46 Amendments to the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23211	The 46th Amendment of the IDS Advocacy Club is not accepted by the Government. Namely, building a sports hall in Rovinj is a project that is being realized. So, I'll just remind you that a contractor has been selected, that now the election of supervision is under way and that 5 million kuna is secured in the budget. And 5 million kuna will be provided by the founder because 50. 50% is financed. Therefore, in the following year, 2009 it has an amount of 10 million kuna. And given all these actions that need to be carried out, we expect that the works will begin in the first quarter of 2009 and this 10 million kuna is enough for the realization of this project in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23212	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23213	Here's after the argument we would accept and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23214	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. 47th Amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23215	The 47th amendment of the same club is not accepted by the government. I will remind you that since 1 July 2001, the decentralised capital building of school facilities and founders, so 20 counties, the City of Zagreb and 33 cities have funded the capital building of these facilities. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also provides State budget funds based on loans that are international contracts in force above our laws, so that a good part of the facilities is realised through the loan of CEB 5, EIB 2 and the World Bank loan. When I talk about this last one, then I must remind you that we have 69 facilities designed to build from the World Bank loan from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and 109 from the so-called EIB 2 or the European Investment Bank. Therefore, it is to be expected that there will also be future loans and that the founders will be able to run according to these addresses that I mentioned, and until then they have at their disposal decentralised funds that they have on their own, possibly even in the adoption of their 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23216	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23217	Here I will just say briefly that I am certainly asking that votes on this proposed amendment be voted for for one basic reason for the small municipality in Istria County and only co-financing is required. So, part of the funding for building a sports hall in Podpićen, which is, that is, in Kršan municipality and I would certainly say it is necessary what was said before that the ministry co-finances such projects because without it it is almost impossible to implement from the budget of municipalities or only by decentralised means of building school, sports halls. Here, I'll say it's not a sports arena, it's a sports hall that costs 15 million kuna and I'll ask that this amendment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23218	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48th Amendment of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23219	The government doesn't accept. In fact, when it comes to the Veli Vrh facility, therefore the building was burned down, the government responded immediately with a million kuna from the current budget reserve, and then we clearly showed that we want to help build this facility immediately. As it is now in the project documentation phase, as the construction permit has not yet been obtained the conditions to discuss support with the state budget. The moment the founder is ready to address this ministry and we will continue the talks on this as we have already begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23220	Thank you. Mr. Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23221	I will definitely ask to vote on this amendment and what you said. The Veli Vrh elementary school, unfortunately, burned to the ground and I thank you for the first aid the government has sent and immediately set out to call the competition. You know that the project has already been designed to produce the necessary permits. So we expect somewhere in January to have out-of-date permits, and the budget is due for 2009. Unfortunately, children have to go to the “Centar” school on buses every day. The school works in three shifts and normally it's unbearable. We want to move on as soon as possible with the construction of the school itself, for which the city has secured most of the funds. The Istrian County has joined. I really expected this state from the state budget to help build a primary school in the city of Pula, which unfortunately burned down. I think you should support that initiative. I'm saying, it's over 400 elementary school students who travel to the center today on buses so they can attend class. Please vote on this amendment. Three amendments that came from the city of Pula ok. One didn't pass because the roads, people would get a little crowded. The other one didn't pass the bow. We hope the city doesn't sink. But for God's sake help for this school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23222	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 49th Amendment of Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23223	The government does not accept this amendment. The interpretation is the same as for one of the previous IDS amendments. Since 1 July 2001, therefore, capital building has been decentralised and founders of decentralised funds are building school facilities according to their plan. Of course it comes from these projects that I mentioned, so if the founder himself can't finance from his own resources, of course, that the future will report to these projects that will certainly be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23224	Thank you. Mr. Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23225	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State, that you have to close a series of all rejected amendments that actually draw attention to the need for investment in Sisak-Moslavina County. This area we're talking about is extremely poorly developed. It's the border area of Lonjsko polje. There people live in scissors of very strict conditions that impose on the Lonjsko field itself as a nature park on the one hand, and on the other hand, the fact that natural resources are exhausted and this leads to a drop in the number of people's potential, to a drop in the number of children, and this regional school, which is practically the only provision that people will remain and survive in this area without such an infrastructure facility. And on the other hand, the founder really doesn't have the means to do it alone. This school is really on edge and needs the support of the state. I hope so. I'm sorry you're refusing. I'm sorry you didn't go to that neighborhood to see it. I hope you'll have a chance and I'd like you to visit some of that field school, the elementary school in Budasheva, and see what kind of conditions they're working on. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23226	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 50th Amendment of Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23227	The 50th Amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is like before. The amendment was rejected, and I'll just add it. The resources of the state budget finance the construction of a sports hall at the home school. Contracts with the contractor have already been prepared for signature.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23228	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23229	I am extremely sorry that you reject such a project because it is the poorest municipality in Krapina-Zagorje County. It extends to 19 and a half square kilometers and has 3027 inhabitants, which is among one of the most densely populated areas in the Republic of Croatia. . /. And when I tell you that the original incomes of this municipality are per capita of 584 kuna, which is 42% of the county average, and I'm not even going to compare it to the national average because I'm ashamed. Let's not talk about comparisons with areas that have 6, 7 or 8 thousand kunas of original income per capita. A school hall like this certainly is the present need for young people who really do not have such a thing, and they have no reason to stay on those banks of Zagorje. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23230	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 51st Representative Zlatko Korakevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23231	The government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as for all other amendments relating to capital building because it is necessary to proceed from the founder's funds. But I want to add here, Your Honor, that directly from the state budget from 2003 to 2007, 21 million kuna has been invested in the reconstruction and addition of this school that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23232	Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State for the information we know, but it's good to have it happen again, but it's also good to repeat that for this school, to build up this school, to create conditions for one-way education, and it's a basic school in the city of Ivanac that we are looking for co-financing. We have a clear decentralisation, all clear and clear, especially when it comes to building primary schools, for all of us in Varazdin County especially. But with the support of this project, Mr. Secretary of State, we get two very important things. I would like to remind you that last year during the opening of the papers, and you said about the funds, that the Croatian Democratic Community made a very successful pre-election event at the opening. With the support of this project, we get two things. First, the school has conditions for one-way teaching, and before the next local elections, we are again creating a space for Croatia's democratic community to organise a pre-election event at the school facility. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23234	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 52nd, also Mr. Representative Zlatko Korakevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23235	The 52nd amendment of the same representative is also not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23236	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23237	Thank you very much. Now there will be a whole series, Mr. Secretary of State, on your part of the explanation, also on my part, but I have the need to say that this amendment requires co-financing of the elementary school in the Municipality of St. Elijah, that the teaching in that school takes place in an object of 168 years old, that it represents, by the very fact that it represents an extremely great danger for children in that primary school and I believe that in the context of the entire system of financing primary schools, it is simply incomprehensible that the government had the power of 80 million kuna to co-finance the construction of a sports hall in Varazdin, without having the power through the model of public building basic schools and sports halls in primary and secondary education through a public-private partnership, that it had no power or kuna. I think this is an opportunity to include this amendment, an opportunity for the Government to correct the injustice it has done towards the construction and later block further construction of schools and sports halls according to the model of public-private partnership and to show its readiness to the citizens of St. Elijah's Municipality in support because their children go to school in a 168-year-old facility. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23238	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 53rd, also representative Zlatko Korakevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23239	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the 53rd amendment of the same representative. The explanation is the same as for the 52nd amendment, but allow for a brief, respected representative to say that the document that is extremely important is brought to the Croatian Parliament, which is the Pedagogical Standard in primary and secondary education, that there are so-called performance coefficients, so the highest one that speaks of the construction and construction of school facilities and that it is just and therefore a very long time period that we consider to be before it is realised, and that deadline is in 2022. Of course, it would be best if we could start all the facilities that need to be built by next year, but it's really unrealistic and you're aware of it. So all that needs to be built is in front of us. The only part will be built from decentralised funds founders, the other part of these projects we're talking about or together, and I need you to allow me to correct what you just said. When it comes to the school hall in Varazdin, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not the only one that financed the sports hall facility, but was 50-50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23240	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I fully accept your correction on the financing of the sports hall in Varazdin 50% of the city and 50% of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in fact, our support for the whole project. At the same time, however, we must express the indignation that for 23 schools and 15 sports halls, how many public-private partnership models the Varazdin County has built school facilities for primary and secondary education, that in this project the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not taken over its commitment. In fact, municipalities and cities together with the county had to assume the full responsibility of building the project and trust me that the municipalities and cities that took responsibility for the project were extremely proud of it, primarily because of children. So, in this amendment too, we want to include the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assume its responsibility to the citizens of the Key, i.e. to the citizens of New Marof. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23242	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 54th, also a representative of Zlatko Korakevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23243	The government does not accept the 54th amendment. The explanation is as for the 52nd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23244	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23245	Thank you very much. I don't think there's any need, here's a colleague of Jambo, if he'll hear anything new. It's hard to add anything to that. In addition to mentioning once again simply an unreasonable attitude when it comes to primary school education, support for one county, according to the municipality and the town of Varazdin County, the more the county has just made a step in raising standards in primary and secondary education, far before we here in the Parliament had a chance to discuss and discuss it. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23246	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55th, also Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23247	The government does not accept the 55th amendment. The explanation is the same as for 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23248	Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23249	Thank you very much. It's all worth the same thing, but I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, and this is about us voting here in the Croatian Parliament showing whether we have support for building a school in the municipality of Donji Martianec or not. I'm looking for voices.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23250	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 56 MPs also Zlatko Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23251	Amendment 56 is not accepted, the argument is the same as for 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23252	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23253	Thank you very much. In this amendment, I need to give further clarifications, whether from this clarification, whether this clarification will create a need for MPs in the Croatian Parliament to support this amendment. However, dear about the municipality of Donjo Voća, the municipality of the special state care of the third group, the municipalities for which we have sought support for the previous budget in the construction of the sports hall, as the sports hall is worth an extraordinary amount not only for school children but for the overall social development of citizens, content, possible content of citizens in the municipality of Donjo Voća. It is simply incomprehensible to me that one such project has no opportunity and no passage, but I ask that by voting MPs in the Croatian Parliament are determined according to the support of the citizens of the municipality of Donja Voća, the municipality of third state care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23254	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 57 also Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23255	57 amendments The government does not accept, the argument is as for 52 but let me just add that directly from the state budget in the period from 98 to 2003 this facility was renovated and reconstructed by 12 million and 511 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23256	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23257	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, in any case, I don't think there's anything to add to this 12 million kuna as much as it is invested in the music school in Varazdin, and in the music school in Varazdin, I don't think there's anything to add, it's a well-known thing and the general knowledge of the potential of the music school, and therefore our commitment to that school in terms of rebuilding the music school. You also know that these 12 million are not enough, that we have not yet reached half, and this amendment simply requires the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue investing in music school out of respect for all the musicians that this music school has given, and I think that this is a minimum of courtesy that we, as Parliamentarians, too, have to do. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23258	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 58 also Mr. Representative Zlatko Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23259	The government does not accept the 58 amendments, and the argument is the same as in Recital 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23260	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23261	Well, my explanation at this point is the same as the explanation when I asked for support to build a sports hall in the Lower Fruit municipality. This is about building a sports hall in the Breznica elementary school in the municipality of Breznica, and specifically in the village of Bisag. I think that in the framework of the stalking system of building such projects that are already being stalked in Varazdin County and which will continue after January of next year, I think that a single support to the government or the state budget is needed and necessary primarily because of citizens in the municipality of Breznica and in particular in the village of Bisag. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23262	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59 Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23263	The government does not accept 59 amendments because since 1 July 2001 we have decentralised construction of capital facilities when it comes to primary and secondary education, and even more so when it comes to pre-school institutions. The decentralisation of pre-school institutions is not only about the construction of capital facilities but also about the full operation of pre-school institutions. So the founders are units of local, or regional (regional) self-government. And when it comes to Sisak-Moslavina County, which you have apostrophe in the last amendment, I must remind you that from the World Bank loan, we are scrambling the craftsman's industrial school in Sisak, which costs several dozen million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23264	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23265	It wasn't about financing construction, it was about co-financing one project that I think is a rare case, they're building two units of local self-government together. In this regard, I regret that the hand of support is not provided for two units of local self-government to set an example in such a capital facility that will be worth about 30 million kuna and that the children of the Great Field and the Great Mlaka enter a kindergarten where the government will also participate in encouraging other cities and municipalities to solve such cases on a similar basis. Because as far as I know in the Republic of Croatia other than kindergartens that built cities, and used by children from municipalities, there are no kindergartens that are actually a joint venture of local self-government. This was an opportunity to give support to encourage and perhaps, in the future, to find the means to help these projects symbolically. Unfortunately, the children of the Great Mlaka and the Great Field will have to go to the kindergarten that only their cities will build, and it will not be recognized as something important, and do not forget when you are already calling for standards, or who you are building and who you are not building, that for units of local self-government, you are introducing pedagogical standards for building and equipping pre-school education facilities you have given an immediate deadline for what you are building, and for what you've been doing, 10-15 years, that's how it is when you work with local self-government money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23266	Voting? Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 60 also the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23267	The 60 amendments are not accepted by the government, the reasoning is as for the 52 amendments. This is about the truth about the equipment and it's about the founder's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23268	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembegh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23269	Unlike some cities that will suck the last lip of the state to build grand halls, which will be swept that week for how long the handball championship will last, Velika Gorica is building quietly by means of an emergency hall for which she has the complete necessary documentation. We were just asking you here to help us with our equipment. So symbolically, the state participates in what is called the assistance of eight first-class clubs, a whole series of very valuable athletes who have nowhere to perform or train in Velika, so to buy equipment and parquets for such a hall that it will be ready as soon as possible. But unfortunately, Great Gorica, while there are two Turopoljs in the government, can't even hope for black under her fingernails, let alone someone to buy her handballs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23270	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 61, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23271	The government does not accept the 61st amendment for the reason that the proposed funds are at the position of A580037, public interurban transport for students sufficient to realise this activity in 2009. I will remind you, the document National Programme for the introduction of mandatory secondary education was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in June 2007. It provides for a phasing out in the implementation of the incentive measures for the entry of students into secondary education in order to achieve some qualifications, i.e. their first profession. So, among other things, it is envisaged that public interurban transport will be financed entirely for all high school students who have more than 5 km from their place of residence and we started to realise this by means of the state budget and the first year for the first year, this year and for the second year. In the following year, 2009 we will continue with the third grade of high school, so it will be four months from September to December of 2009. In fact, only the fourth grade of high school will remain uninvolved, and that will follow in the next school year. But let me just remind you that before the units of local self-government, not just the county, not just cities, but even municipalities have co-financed someone in some percentage of student transportation to help parents finance these costs. As the state budget took over one class per year, either founders or cities or municipalities reduced their share in co-financing of student transport. So we're holding that the part that hasn't been covered yet is much, much smaller, that now those assets where they've been hired so far will not be engaged to anything else, but will remain in education and have space covered, I dare say, entirely that class that won't be covered. I, respected MPs, knowing of your intensities to include the fourth grade of high school, would dare say that in this way it can indeed be realised, and we will respect that document that is the Croatian Parliament as it is adopted. In addition, to confirm that very little will remain for co-financing when it comes to 4th grade, according to the Island Act, the transport of all our high school students to all the islands is funded. And this year, the Law on areas of special state care has been amended where, knowing that we cover the 1st and 2nd grade of funding from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, we extended this to the 3rd and 4th classes in all areas of special state care, and we have such areas in as many as 16 counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23272	Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23273	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, the intensity of this amendment is to provide interurban transport for students of the third and fourth grade high school. It's not about you directly, I have to say honestly, it's about your older HDZ coalition partner, who we know had big posters in a pre-election campaign that said free transportation and the press was made. Now you can see it's not quite done because the students don't have free transportation. The fact that you're counting on municipalities and cities and counties to pay, that's something else, but I don't think the state budget can be worked in such a way as to hope that someone else will pay some expenses. Some counties have also been true without the help of the state, but at this point they've added to you instead of taking away those 80 million that they took away from you or that you took away from yourself, instead of adding even a little less than 80 million, we would now have money for the 3rd and 4th classes. My colleagues and colleagues, when you have not already written your amendments or made an effort to contribute at least a little bit to the quality of this budget, I ask you to support the amendment that goes in the direction of what you have advertised as your success in the election campaign, and now it is shown that even in the amendments, it is not acceptable for the Government to realise what it was advertised with a year ago. Therefore, if you have not already written the amendments, please at least support those who are heading towards the realization of what you yourself have committed. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23274	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 62, Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23275	The 62nd Amendment is not accepted by the Government. I will appeal to the adoption of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which was adopted on 15 July this year in the Croatian Assembly where it is clearly said that support for private schools will not only tell high schools, but all private schools depend on the results of the external evaluation of these schools, which is actually the most honest approach. And that's something private schools have really accepted. So far, there are 1450 kuna per student per year, and in the future, following the adoption of the implementing regulation or sublegal act, this will be related to the results of the external evaluation. Whoever achieves better results, the support will be greater. Those who fail to achieve some exceptional results will not be helped from this level. And by the way, I must remind you that you are proposing to reduce the position of A622044 issue of domestic scientific journals due to the above activity. We can't reduce this planned amount, because it's particularly important to us, and this can go into the process of realisation in 2009 the way I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23276	Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23277	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry that you may not have paid a little more attention to this amendment, because I was talking about it in the adoption of the 2008 State budget of the Pedagogue Standard. It was then said that the 2009 budget would take a little more care of private schools and private high schools. In fact, it is seen from all the data that these private schools and private high schools are particularly systematically marginalized in the state budget and you yourself said 1450 kunas stand out per student, and according to the data that I have that private school and private high school, they single out about 3,500 kuna per year for commitments to the state. So I think it would be good for even these symbolic means to be able to help a little bit and fix this situation and improve the position of private schools and especially private high schools, because directors, or owners of these schools, are also addressing me as a representative and warning me of this poor position and looking for one intervention in this sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23278	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 63rd Mr. Representative Zlatko Korčević?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23279	The government does not accept the 63rd amendment. It is a medical school in Varazdin, the property of the former building of the Medical School was returned to the Uršulinka sisters and the school was moved to a facility that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia donated to the founder. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has helped to arrange this space with founders of 2 million and 753 thousand kuna, further upgrade is on the concern of the founder himself, and we believe that this ministry has helped to create much better conditions for students of the Medical School in Varazdin, rather than so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23280	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23281	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State it is true that this school has been moved to a facility owned by the Ministry of Defence, it is true that because of the move from church facilities it was necessary, because of the return of property, but I am convinced that you too have this knowledge that it is a school that has no specialized practice, classroom, that it is a school that does not have those basic conditions that are necessary for that kind of specialist calling when we talk about medical personnel in medicine. And be assured, I think Minister Milinovic agrees with me, that without the quality of the staff we need to raise in high school education and later, that without them and health reform is questionable, and following your reasoning I simply don't understand by what criteria many schools have for specialist titles on certain areas have space in the state budget, and I simply don't understand why the medical school in Varazdin doesn't have that space. Well, it's simply my desire to stress with this amendment the need, one real need that the city of Varazdin has, and especially the medical profession, when I talk about the Varazdin County and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23282	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 64. The IDS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23283	The Government does not accept Amendment 64 for the reason that the planned funds are sufficient to cover the existing contractual obligations arising from the Capital Investment Programme at the University of Pula. In 2008, 2 million and 300,000 kuna were invested for capital investments at the University of Pula. Of course, by defining the next steps of investment in universities, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will propose providing the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23284	Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23285	Here, Mr. Secretary of State, I must say that there are not enough resources, because it is precisely a request that came from the University of Pula, and I would say the youngest university in the Republic of Croatia and with the lowest student standard in the Republic of Croatia. I have to say that the University of Pula doesn't have any restaurants, a student restaurant, or a dormitory home. Here we have asked for 7 million kunas in this amendment to adapt space for a student restaurant, a space that the Istrian County has granted to the University of Pula. The funds provided in the budget are insurance in the amount that is far, far less than those 7 million 360 thousand kuna. That's why we asked for 9 million 360 because 2 million are secured by the state budget. I would ask that we vote on this amendment, and all I want is to equalise the student standard of all students in the Republic of Croatia, and unless this amendment is accepted, it is a bad message from the government to students in the Istrian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23286	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 65th Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23287	The 65th Amendment is not accepted by the Government, since the above position is A622003 Project Programme and scientific research activities, but in the draft budget necessary for the realisation of scientific research activities, so we do not want to reduce this part. And otherwise, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is familiar with the problem of food in the town of Varazdin, and we will try to solve this problem in cooperation with the university, the Zagreb University on the one hand and the town of Varazdin on the other hand, and we have already discussed this with the Rector, but also with the mayor of Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23288	Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23289	Mr. Secretary of State, I'll just remind you that two years ago, a truly beautiful home was built, a student home in the city of Varazdin, and I must honestly say that it included your ministry for which of course I thank you. However, the matter has not been resolved, the job is not completed, because according to project documentation with a student home, the construction of a student restaurant was also envisaged. Namely, there are 5,000 students in the city of Varazdin right now, the largest number outside the city itself, and indeed the diet is not solved in an adequate way. Accommodation yes, diet no, because students feed on private restaurants. For some, we have an announcement that they will either shut down or adapt and there will be major problems where they are placed and organised their diet. So I'm asking you to stay on that and keep what you said to be, but I'm still asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23290	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66. The IDS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23291	The government does not accept the 66th amendment for the reason that, based on the Sport Act, the public needs of sport are planned and monitored in units of local, regional, or regional self-government, as well as the need for a Bosniak home in Pazin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23292	Yeah. This is one specific amendment. We're looking for a bogar home in Pazin 2 million kuna. You gentlemen of the Parliament, Vice President, know that a certain Willy Ban set up two bombs a few days ago at the Bogar Hall in Pazin, which the note stays with some premises of the Police Station in Pazin. The damage is done, it may be more political than material, but the state is responsible for terrorist acts and so much will be compensated. We suggest that these funds be allocated. The state was supposed to prevent that from happening. Why? Well, it was announced that the Arena collapse in Pula was announced. The police had been guarding Arena for a few days, but now it's clear that Arena was a smoke screen to hit Pazin. It seemed to destabilise Istria, and it's cool down with that unfortunate Thompson concert. Now, the orderer will also need to find the police. The police now said this morning that I had been interviewed by the police knowingly because I had indeed upset the words of the Istrian public, that I had upset them. Now, if I were to stand up like it does in this country and greet "To home ready!" And here I am in Jasenovac and the Old Town, then I would be protected like Thompson or a bear. And this is how I ask if anyone will compensate for that damage... What's... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Proclaimed policies of new patriotism promoted immediately before going to Tel Aviv. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23293	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 67 Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23294	Amendment 67 The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because in an important amendment it assumes as if it has already been established and there is a university campus in Velika Gorica as a separate higher education institution. Since this is not true, I cannot plan funds for these purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23295	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richemberght.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23296	I don't know which country the campus is an independent facility in. It's about the Grand Gorica University that exists. Namely, the university is working in poor conditions because there are many students and there are six different locations which take place in Velika Gorica, which at the Brodar Institute, is at the Ruđer Bošković Institute in Zagreb. And, of course, it is also in the interest of those who perform and prepare teaching, and also of the students themselves, and of the city to change that, in a way that is important in order to provide space in the spatial plan that is under way, to buy land and enable the construction of a modern campus which would include in addition to the capacity for the accommodation of the students and the teaching buildings of the university so that students can group and maintain teaching if possible in the city itself, so not in other cities. In that sense, we were hoping for your support, but if there's nothing strange going on, because there's Big Gorica is the 13th pig so it's not the first time and probably not the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23297	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 68 Madam Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23298	The government does not accept 68 amendments. We think that... the international cooperation these funds provided for in this activity in 2009 are sufficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is based on what was realized in 2008 as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23299	Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23300	So I believe that you think that's enough but I have submitted this amendment because I don't think that's enough because we have two grounds for that. One is the whole idea of a Bologna reform whose main purpose is the mobility of higher education teachers and students, which we have achieved almost nothing. Therefore, we are only at the beginning of even thinking about how we will achieve a mobility which, of course, at this point is even a problem within the country and outside the country not to speak. Therefore, we, on the one hand, need to step up international co-operation in higher education institutions in order to achieve the reform that is under way. Unlike the repressive apparatus, this is an instrument with which we can really build a society and with which we can encourage people to study in that direction where we are the only competitive in Europe, which is high-school educated people. You know that there are four famous freedoms within the European Union that we have wanted to join by the end of the day to join the fifth one whose proposal is currently under way is freedom of movement of knowledge, so with the freedom of movement of capital, goods, services and people is now freedom of movement of knowledge. And at that point, the minimum minimum is to encourage higher education cooperation with abroad. I am asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23301	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen, in ten minutes, we will discuss the remaining amendments and vote and move to a vote on the state budget with all those accompanying documents. I therefore ask and call on MPs and MPs who are not in the assembly to enter the assembly because the vote on the state budget is approaching. 69 amendments by Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23302	It is not accepted because we believe that the planned amount in 2009 is sufficient to realise these activities. Let me remind you briefly. So it is also about the preparation of Croatian institutions for lifelong learning but it is also about the promotion of a lifelong learning programme, so at the positions of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports we have 550 thousand kuna, at the positions of the Agency for adult education we have a million and 700 thousand kuna. We have several dozen million kunas in the positions of the Croatian Employment Service. So there's something else I need to add to that. CARDS 2004 was just a program that worked to prepare our institutions for lifelong learning, and this will be inherited by the IPA program and especially by the third component that speaks of human resources. Why are we getting ready? Why are we capacitated? One department at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, another department at the Professional Education Agency, a total of 22 employees on these programmes because we want as much funding as possible to withdraw on this basis, but not just us when it comes to human resources, but also the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Croatian Employment Institute and the Ministry of Economy, which is headed by this component.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23303	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23304	Thank you. Namely, I agree. I think what exists now on the items that go towards the preparation of institutions for lifelong learning is not enough and I agree that even if this were added, it wouldn't be enough for that. But I think it's necessary that at least symbolically show that we're preparing for new IPA programs. And besides, we're in an extraordinary situation, as surely Minister Schucker will warn you because we already have 3,000 people who lost their jobs in the wood industry and we'll have over 10 grand to lose their jobs in shipbuilding. Therefore, these are all people who are running for actually retraining, i.e. an attempt to re-employ the entire system of life education, and that is why the purpose of this amendment is. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23305	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would like Secretary of State Branko Grgic to show himself about the amendment of the HNS Club of Representatives, the 70th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23306	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government does not accept the amendment. In particular, the position of 1283 incentives to increase the competitiveness of the tourism market predetermined activities and measures in the context of the proposed amount of funds, which will be implemented during 2009 in order to increase the competitiveness of the tourism market. We note that in order to strengthen Croatia's position on the international market, there has already been an increase in funding at 1514 in the development of the tourism sector. It is not necessary to increase the amount of funds proposed at 1283.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23307	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23308	Thank you. The purpose of this amendment is that in conditions in which it is obvious that one of our key industries, and especially the short-term key industries, so those that we would need help to survive next year, is tourism. In these conditions, we must start to address another segment of the market because surely that market that has been most interesting for us so far will be most affected by the crisis. And in this regard, we believe that it is crucial to boost revenues to boost revenues, of course, and to boost the competitiveness of our tourism market in order to boost revenues from tourism, so that this kind of incentives we give, in such a way as these shipping lines, will not be necessary because they will be able to earn something if the tourist is and if tourism is to earn something. It is therefore more logical to go to the creation of wealth than to give state incentives. So please vote on this amendment that has logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23309	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I ask Minister Darko Milinovic to be shown about the amendments. 71st, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23310	Thank you, Mr. President. The collateral is not only on Chapter 5 but in other positions, given this they are sufficient for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23311	Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23312	Is that what I'm saying about not accepting the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23313	Yeah, yeah. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23314	So, I'm not going to torture Minister Milinovic anymore because they took away a billion and 700 million, so everything else is petty. But this amendment has its own clear purpose. Its purpose is actually to supplement the blindness. In the discussion of the supplement, we heard that the government is ready to come with its proposal and its law to regulate this assistance to the blind. Therefore, we propose this amount for the first 6 months of the following year to ensure that the compensation is provided to people who are blind and who need that kind of help. Of course, if the government does not come in the first six months to make such a bill, the HNS will release such a bill into the process. But I'm asking you to at least help the blind in the first six months. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23315	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 72nd amendment of Mr. Zlatko Korakevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23316	Well, since we haven't been able to agree with the former mayor to resume the restoration of the Varazdin hospital because of his overwork, in recent months we've been negotiating with the mayor, Mr Sabati and Director Herman, and we're about to sign a contract to continue the restoration of the Varazdin hospital, and that will happen after confirming the World Bank's loan law, I hope today. The amendment is denied. He doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23317	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23318	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the fact that you and your former mayor couldn't find consent, that's exactly what I believe. That's why you agreed with the coalition partners, along with the necessary political trade and replaced him. It is very clear and it is especially known to the citizens of the Varazdin County. But I would like to remind you that for the necessary adaptation and construction of new hospital spaces, that the Varazdin County is just aware of the inability to block support for county projects and from the state budget itself went into the making of documentation, and I want to remind you, and I believe that you also know that and that the Varazdin County and found a model of financing the entire project in view of, I believe in your good intentions and good communication with the current mayor, I have no doubt about it at all. But I have the right to doubt the realization of this whole project by taking away a billion and 700 in your budget, and on the other hand with the ability, the people who have had the opportunity to do so have not done so. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23319	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 73rd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23320	Well, unfortunately, we can't accept this amendment because it's the founder of a special hospital county, but if they get involved in one of the national projects, I hope we find those funds, as in the rest of the way that we found the funds when you asked for a pulsar hospital in the last 8 years, six months ago we found the 40 million kuna funds, here at your request.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23321	Thank you. IDS club, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23322	The IDS Club here submits an amendment of 3 million kuna for the purchase of medical equipment for a special hospital for medical rehabilitation and treatment of heart and lung disease and rheumatism, the Palace of Therapy in Opatija. It is certainly one of the most prized institutions, let's call it that, such a type in the Republic of Croatia. If we can help her, let's help her. Hundreds of people appear in that post-operative request at that clinic. I'm not going to ask for a vote, it's long been decided it won't go away, but I'm really asking you that if it's possible for them to get out in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23323	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Please Marina Dujmović Vukovic, State Secretary. Please welcome the 74th Amendment of the MP, Mrs Vesne Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23324	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government does not accept the amendment because the planned funds on this activity are based on current indicators and the proposed amount of funds is considered sufficient for these purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23325	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23326	Thank you. The explanation is worse than the rejection itself, I must tell you, because if the rejection of the amendment is based on the fact that the funds so far have proved sufficient, and the situation so far is disastrous, then it really speaks ill of the way these funds were used. So this is one of those items that are actually completely unnecessary. If you have 267 000 kuna to combat drug abuse and combat corruption, 120000 kuna, you could have used it in some way differently and more discreetly and discreetly. And it certainly shouldn't have put a million kunas in such an experiment as the Board of Economists' Council that nobody listens to anyway. Therefore, to combat drug abuse, 267 000 kuna is the same thing as nothing. But of course there are some money and why these small sums that appear all over the budget, and it is clear that they cannot achieve a single goal that is the purpose of it. I was counting on the budget that these small sums last year were made when you add them all together made up one large sum, and that was the total budget of the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, these small amounts need to be kept very much in check. It's not going to do what it says here that it's going to work, but it's probably going to be about something else that doesn't write here all together when you put them to use. Therefore, please, or some amount that can be fought against intoxicating drugs or no amount, so that we at least have control over the budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23327	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the secretary of state. I would like to ask Minister Ivan Shuker on the amendment of the 75th Representative, Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23328	The government does not accept for the simple reason why it is proposed to take one county and give it to another county.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23329	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23330	I remind you that we live in a country where there are huge, large differences between certain parts of the county and that with this purpose the Regional Development Fund was established in 2001 in order to achieve a uniform regional development, i.e. to reduce the differences between richer and poorer areas of our country. We got off to a good start. I will mention that in 2007 about 150 million kuna was allocated for this purpose. But the 2008 trend is less than 100, 2009 about 60 million kuna. I'm sure it's not a trend that shows that we're going in a good direction. This way we will never and will never achieve uniform regional development. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23331	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would ask Minister Shuker to show himself on the amendment of MP Željko Vincelj to the proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23332	The government does not accept the reason why an increase in the cost of current investment maintenance services of 15 million while reducing investment cannot simply be accepted. Therefore, the government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23333	Mr. Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23334	I will repeat once again that this amendment concerns the poorest municipality of Krapina-Zagorian County. I only went to that community on purpose. I think it's going to be a long time before she comes to some better level of development, because that development level certainly won't reach if she doesn't have organized water supply. The municipality has 584 kunas of original income per capita in the municipality. There is no organised water supply, which means that citizens have difficulty living, let alone craftsmen and entrepreneurs who would have any interest in developing the municipality. I can't do that because there's no organized water supply. What the opposition in Krapina-Zagorje County, the opposition to the state government recognises to the Croatian Democratic Community is the realisation of a regional water supply project of 226 million kuna. But unfortunately, when such a big, beautiful project is prepared, too much politicisation, and too little professional comprehensive preparations, then one of the municipalities and especially such a municipality falls out of such a regional programme. So I think this amendment should be supported. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23335	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like Secretary of State Željko Tufekčić to show himself about the amendments to the Croatian Roads Plan. The first is the amendment of Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23337	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the schedule for the County Road Administrations of the Croatian Roads is 240 million kuna per year, which is in line with the programme of construction and maintenance of public roads for the fifth, eighth period. The government is looking for a way to increase revenues to the County Road Administrations and we believe it will soon come up with a satisfactory solution. At this time, however, this cannot be on the charge, or on the burden of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23338	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23339	My point is that the government is not looking for solutions for the County Road Administration. If the opposite was likely not the annual budget of the County Road Administrations backwards I think six years would be literally 240 million kuna. Not a single kuna increase, and we know that all the other items in all the other corridors are growing, growing, growing, rising. And I will remind you that the County Road Administrations in Croatia operate more than 21,000 km of county and local roads. According to the current volume of financing of the Croatian road for 1 km of county and local roads, a circus of 11,000 kunas is set aside. Only 20 sad meters of road can be arranged for that amount. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23340	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment of the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23341	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, construction of state roads is planned through the annual plan of building and maintaining state roads, based on the four-year programme and the annual financial plan of the Croatian roads. This road is located in the design phase and its construction will be planned in the next four-year programme of construction and maintenance of state roads for the period of nine, twelve.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23342	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Vincelj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23343	Well, this amendment is about looking for a bridge road on a move from Zabok to Krapina or vice versa. It is a road that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to build because until the closing system is charged on the Zagreb-Macelj highway, in early 2006, it has not yet built an adequate connecting road which would be an alternative to this road that requires to pay the toll. It was after the pressures of course by the local population, there was a promise that construction would begin in 2007, ending 2008. Now we have, we have heard of a promise to start building in 2009, and I would just like to say in 2010 that this is not at all and there is no comfort for the citizens of Krapina-Zagorje County and for entrepreneurs. I'll just remind them to pay the most expensive, convincing most expensive toll in the country. And here, the other day we have information that Minister Kalmeta has agreed with transporter associations to reduce their 20% toll across the country, but only on the Zagreb-Macelj highway which I repeat once more expensive than anywhere on any road in Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23344	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the third amendment to the same representative, Mr. Zeljko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23345	The amendment is not accepted. Same as in the previous amendment. This road is located in the design phase and its construction will be planned in the next four-year programme of construction and maintenance of state roads for the period 2009/2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23346	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23347	Thank you very much. And I thank you for this information, unfortunately. The served Krapina-Zagorje County was unable to win through its institutions. And I ask you to give our institutions an answer that that's how it's going to be. Because we haven't gotten that information in spite of what we're looking for so far. I'll just remind you that this fast road was and in the 2005 plan, it wasn't realized. Here, I deeply believe, I hope, I'd like to believe that it will be during this four-year period. But I would ask that in response to Krapina-Zagorje County for the start and completion of the construction of the fast road and to deny those speculations that have arisen that we will not get a fast road, and it is known that it is a fast road, it is known that it is four wheels, a split belt, intersections and knots in two levels and traffic speeds of 100 km per hour. Please make it clear to our county that we'll get a quick road or God forbid with two hospital lanes. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23348	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Secretary of State. Please engage to see the quorum. The result? 119 MPs. So we can decide. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are going to vote on the State Budget Proposal. Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. So, I am voting on the 2009 proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour, no abstentions and 52 against voting and we have brought the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. In accordance with Article 24. The budget law, we are now going to vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra- budget beneficiaries. First. Proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This plan was passed by a majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 51 against. I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the majority of votes are 80 votes for, no abstentions and 52 against, a decision to give consent to the 2009 Croatian Roads Financial Plan. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. Please, let's get on with it. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 79 votes for, 2 abstentions and 50 against. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 80 votes for, no abstentions and 52 against. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 80 votes for and one abstention and 52 against this decision has been taken. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and of the financial plans prior to their publication in the "National Journal". I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The board's conclusion was accepted by most votes, 99 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 14 against. Thank you very much. And as the final item of the agenda - Final draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 219 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Law-making, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Local and Areaal (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Local Region (regional) Self-Government. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a few introductory notes. So what is defined by this law on the implementation of the state budget? The budget stock of 429 million and 900 thousand kuna has been defined. Based on specific rules of 3 326 kuna, for the calculation of fees and other receipts. In addition, the total limit for borrowing units of regional and regional self-government 2.3% of total income achieved in the business of all units. The law also determines the issue of debt management, allowing the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be in debt abroad and on the domestic money market up to 14.7 billion kuna, of which the current repayments of the principal amounting to 9.8 billion kuna, and the rest to cover the deficit. The total amount of out-of-counter debt of 1.6 billion kuna is determined, the current principal payment of €487,9 million. It is also authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give new financial guarantees of 4.9 billion kuna, and there is exactly maybe that point, and when we spoke about HABOR and the model of the functioning of HABOR due to the debt problem, we will certainly be able to through state guarantees whether at home, whether or not, and we will have to ensure on the international financial market that HABOR comes to funding, and through the programmes of the resolution ministries, we will co-finance the interest rate and thus obtain funds to encourage the economy. So it is also defined what we had in previous laws, which is the return of the paid VAT for the equipment purchased in science and fire, the return of income tax after the annual application to bonds in the field of special state care and mountain-mounted areas. The funds for the subsidisation of interest and... the capital of HABOR of 490 million kuna, so this would be as short as possible to regulate the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23351	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HNS club, Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23352	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will not accept the 2009 State Budget Act, because it is in fact simple words that determines the procedures for the implementation of the state budget and we have a second concept of the state budget. We have given two amendments to the execution, the Law on Implementation, and in a way to delete Article 7 we each warn that we do not agree that the Parliament transfers powers on the redistribution of almost full budget to the Government because it is the original right under the Constitution and the Budget Act of the Parliament, so it brings state budget and brings rebalancing. In practice, this could now happen if the government already made the first redistribution and more significant redistribution of funds in the budget in January and it can ultimately look quite different from how Parliament brought it. And on Article 18, which limits the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government, we propose to increase from 2.3% of income to 5%. And we want to warn you of another absurd, implementation of the Budget Law. As we have violated the Budget Act on the deadline, we are still not fully applying the budget in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, so Article 43 at the end of the application of the existing Budget Act adopted five years ago, and we are still not fully applying it, and this article is exempt from the application of Articles 26, 28 and 29. Budget law, and it refers to development programmes, job plans and public procurement plans, and that is the consequence of having such a non-transparent proposed budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23353	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. And Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23354	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think we have a very important law in the debate, my colleague Zgrebec pointed out in the name of the club one detail, and that's what I really want to talk about, that's Article 7 of this law, but also the law on the implementation of the budget of that last year and all those before, and it seems to me that back in the last two years, and the formulation is such that it actually suspends Parliament's right to bring the budget. And it's not a bad interpretation of me from the opposition right now. I would like to give you an example, and such examples have so far been three or four to prove to me that everything my respected colleagues and fellow MPs here voted as a budget, the government once by its decision but completely changed. In early November, the government made the second in a row of three so far, decisions on redistributing the budget precisely by the basis of such a provision of the article and the redistribution law that it could absolutely change everything and everything. At that time, it suffered in that redistribution of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, as the government directly redistributed 212 million kunas in fact redistributed 10 billion items out of a total of 12 billion budgets. Of course, none of us MPs are unreasonable, we understand that not everything can be planned in the kuna and in detail, so there are certain circumstances that require occasional correction, but what happened with the Ministry of Science's budget is the foundation of the government's decision in November, and it seems to me two or three weeks ago and with the health and social budget is actually a complete suspension of what Parliament voted in the budget. For example, we voted on an item called the prevention of violence in schools that had a million and 202 thousand kuna, the government reduced it by 70%. And now you have one 20 pages of such items that the government reduces from 20 to 70, 80, 50% or I don't know how. But what is terrible for Parliament and ultimately the government that gives itself the right to do such a thing, which is one whole series of items that the government has reduced to zero. And I don't know the example, the equipment of libraries with mandatory booklets and professional literature zero. Parliament votes in primary schools that it needs 4 million kuna, the government by its decision says minus 4 million, we have zero. Making deficit textbooks in vocational education, tomorrow we will talk about it, the government votes zero even though Parliament voted otherwise. So it's not now that adjustment we're a little screwed up in the plan or the execution is going differently for us. A complete suspension of Parliament's decisions. I don't know the school network project of one-way work. So there's Minister Primorac at all four explaining one-way work, network, school, here and there, government decision minus zero. And you have such zeroes to say so, very much. So what's this about? That formulation that before these laws on the implementation of the budget stood that actually these redistributions could be done if there was a lack of pay, for some loans, etc. It seemed to me somewhat more reasonable than this provision is now. As the government very extensively interprets its regulations, we had, for example, a relatively similar case with the Government's Law on Power to regulate specific matters, it absolutely accepts the right to change everything this Parliament adopts. Of course, in a crisis situation, it gets a whole new dimension. Neither does the government know what it wants me to repeat, nor does it know what it will not, and in fact from day to day it will be able to change what this Parliament has brought, regardless of what I personally or any of the other MPs thought about what Parliament has brought. Parliament has voted something and it has a commitment to the government. According to our Constitution, the Government still corresponds to the Croatian Parliament and, by our Constitution, Parliament still brings state budget. If this kind of government practice continues, and I say it didn't go well this year, because it was very intensely interpreted, I don't know what we're going to have left. To propose amendments to the Constitution. So let's just write it down nicely that it's the government that's making the budget, so let's all deprive ourselves of ourselves, and we bother to discuss it all day, because no one living in the government cares what we as advocates have to say, and it can redistribute everything itself anyway. Because the interpretation within the section of the planned items is interpreted exactly as I told you. Some items at zero, some with 80% up, some 90% down. So it's completely re-distributed, and the connection to that budget ultimately doesn't have anything to do with what we voted for. Of course, a special problem then arises in a situation where we have a budget calculation. Then it's all about the execution of 100s, and then they say we're very good, we're doing great, and you're actually going to go work as representatives of your work of control of the executive government, so you can't hold your head or tail as much as any project was planned. Therefore, I think Article 7 is as it was formulated in the Law on Budget Implementation as extremely dangerous. Dangerous to democracy, dangerous to a state that is in crisis and dangerous because the government interprets it very extensively. I repeat, similar to the rules. That's what the ministers are telling you. I hope you know what decisions you've made about redistribution, and I'm very interested in how you're going to explain those zeroes. Because no matter how you turn things around, something's wrong. If you can reduce something to zero, it means that whoever planned this budget and convinced us here that it was just so best, that it wasn't well planned. And if it happens to him year by year, then someone has to answer for it, on the other hand, if it was well planned, and for political ones or those, or for these reasons and such reasons, it has to be said by Parliament, because Parliament voted that such things should be done. Therefore, I think that by adopting the law, especially this provision of Article 7 we are playing with very dangerous things that are not and can't be a joke and I think that none of us as MPs, no matter what the time, no matter what, we can't easily agree that someone else is actually doing a job for those who we are responsible, we as advocates. Because it says what's the alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23355	Thank you. We have one, two replicas. First is Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23356	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, very briefly, I am encouraged by my colleague Lugaric because listing these items at the Ministry of Science, the same happened with the Ministry of Health where it is particularly interesting that the item for the prevention of malignant diseases was cut in half, it was millions of amounts, and the same thing was, which I was already talking about at the previous point about the protection of health on the islands, where practically 8 million kuna was reduced. Particularly interesting in the Ministry of Justice was the provision of paragraph 367 000 for the prevention of disease and drug addiction and prevention. They spent three thousand kunas, and then this year 367 thousand kuna was put back on again. So, it actually warns about two things that my colleague Lugaric was talking about, about bad planning, and then I wonder why it was planned that way. And secondly, it actually reduces the responsibility of those who had such bad plans when decisions are so big, and it's 2 billion kunas that were distributed in November pass by this Parliament and this assembly. And that's why this article 7 is really warning, and I don't think we should accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23357	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23358	My colleague Jovanovic, you and health care still went well. That's 10 billion redistributed. For example. The Bicro Business Innovation Centre, therefore, is the transfer from technology to economy, zero, by decision of government zero. Or, for example, the programmes of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. It has all the excellence that exists in Croatia with the 5 million that Parliament voted at zero. Therefore, by reducing 70, 80% of you in health care to relativise a little bit, you've been well compared to education and where you have three pages of zero, zero, zero, zero, zero by government decision, past Parliament's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23359	Mr. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23360	Thank you, Mr. President. So you see here all night, and both the prime minister and the government claim that this budget deficit is due to those 6% of the collective agreement with the unions and health reform. And I figure the budget as let's take this as one bottle, a litre missing one of the kids. And then we say that what's missing is health reform, it's the money of health reform and this 6% increase in wages based on or based on a collective contract. When we turn that same bottle upside down, then the missing kids are upstairs again. So this part is full down there. Or something else. I don't know anything either. So the budget is one whole. You're now saying that the health reform or the salary increase under the collective contract that the culprit is for, I can't say the culprit or for this deficit in the budget is, it's, it's not that simple. You're missing the money, and the budget is total.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23361	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23362	Comrade Grubisic, really don't talk about missing something. I mean missing, we're aware of that. But it's here that he's trying to take one punch to say two flies. Here I am, for example. from education, because I know that, but I say there are such cases both in health care and in social care, there's one part there in public works and so on. When the state budget was passed, they were on the last year’s budget for 2008, for example, telling us that we had good projects, for example, this design of teaching programmes, or girls, and we planned 2 million kunas for it. Great, great, great. Then of course they lacked, say, a hall in Osijek they didn't put 120 million as much as they needed, but I don't know 40, so they had to subscribe, and then they were actually trying to assume the government's power to do what Parliament really needed to do, and in reality nothing is happening. One big nothing. One big hate and one really big eye-snatching for us here in Parliament, but also in public. So that's the problem here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23363	Thank you. And finally Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23364	Thank you, Mr. President. When we discussed the budget, I actually said it was just a general rehearsal. I would say that this law on the implementation of the state budget actually shows the government's understanding of the budget and the conduct of economic and economic policy. So this law is actually a permanent budget order. What we have a permanent payment order for some accounts is this permanent budget order or to be that is one permanent amendment to the budget. So several times a year, it's likely that everything that the ministries mispredicted or what the government had mispredicted or what could not have predicted, and that actually spares us a rather large discussion of the amendments again. In fact, I am not sure that what Mrs Lugaric said in the previous debate said about some bad plans and that it might be expected for Minister Suker to punish what they are planning badly, I think it is quite the opposite, because the worse they plan, the more the Minister Shuker will have the opportunity to move to the other side. The worse they plan, the more he can transfer, the more he can, not him, but these other ministries can re-design because what is planned well and spends it can no longer be re-scheduled, and what is planned doesn't need to be re-scheduled. So I think this story about not actually sending amendments to this budget is good. I think that in fact this law leaves the possibility for all MPs to put their amendments in a postal envelope, send it to the Ministry of Finance, and it may happen to them that in one of the next decisions on re-use they see it as I see it, let's say I saw this re-use for subsidising the shipping lines. She came and pleasantly surprised me and I knew I couldn't stop driving. It's just that you know how much you're fueling, for example. Spend it. That's why I'm kind of an irreparable optimist here, and I'm here because in this budget I'm not going to see anything good for the islands that I'm going to find in some re-appropriate or new decision that I'm going to see something better than it's pleasantly surprised, and of course the ministers today we've been having a business discussion about it, and I'm pretty sure you already know in this budget at least 5 billion kunas that you can re-design from what's not planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23365	Thank you. And final. Late after that. But here you go, but it's not very common.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23366	As soon as possible, I think we don't have to be very surprised when we know that every unit of local self-government has to make a budget with most of the councilors until we know how to bring the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23367	Thank you. And finally, Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shucker, with the hope of being as concise as he was just before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23368	Oh, no. This time, I won't be aware of the simple reason why because of the record, and because of the obvious ignorance of Mr. Bauk who was in the MORH and should at least know some things about the budget, because simply as Minister of Finance, I can't walk away from things here. First of all, this budget was made under the law that you passed in 2003. This law we passed is from 1. 1. In 2008. The other thing is, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP attorneys, I have absolutely no intention of accusing you of anything right now. But look at what the state audit wrote about how you were redistributing in 2003. Compared to how it was done then, at least by amending the law in 2004 we said that we would deliver both to the Parliament and to the People's Newspaper what is being redistributed. That wasn't the case in 2003. So let's not argue when I'm doing something, then it's okay. And then that's fantastic. And when the budget has 400 subaccounts, then that's awesome, then that's great. And now that the treasurer has one account, you get a notice for every redistribution. And another thing, Mr. Bauk, we should know that the Minister of Finance does not order redistribution. The redistribution is sought by budget users. The second thing, you should also know, and if you had read this new Budget Law, then you would have seen that the new Budget Law has been passed on to budget users, so those who have received the funds. But I repeat, if it's necessary, I'll provide you with the State Audit report for 2003 when it's been redistributed somewhere around 3 billion and 400 million. And there's something else I want to say. And certainly that colleagues who know a little better about how the budget works, as long as the fourth-level budget is done, it's very difficult to execute it without having a redistribution to... So we can talk whatever we want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you will see that the amendments to the law and when the 2010 budget is made, that budget will be made at the third level, will be based on the programmes and will then be a problem for the budgetary user when he proposes redistribution. He will have to explain why he proposes redistributing why he gave up some program. But in order to come to such a law, colleagues and colleagues who do not deal with finance, but are more of a general profession, certain conditions should be created. And be assured if anyone is in the interest of not having these redistributions, the more loyal the way this High House adopts it is to the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because then it's a lot easier to plan things, but I repeat. There used to be 400 sub-accounts, today we have one account. So much for redistributing. And I say it's not good for the public, it's for everything to say when I do something, it's good, and when someone else does it, it's not good. That's not good. It's simply because we're throwing everyone at each other no matter what political option they belong to. Another thing about borrowing local self-government units. In 2003, I'm not coming back to something... was a complex situation around the deficit and a decision was made that units of local self-government could not be borrowed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know why it was. It was an election year, and to me at the time, as mayor, it was not at all a pass that we could not be in charge, but never in any of my debates in the Parliament have you seen an attack on a fellow Churchman. Why? Because I was aware of the situation why that was the decision. No, I don't. You can, you can check all the records and you'll see, but look, we're now, we've now made it possible for local self-government units to be in charge of 2.3%. The second thing, if we insist on fiscal stability and sound fiscal policy of the central state, then local self-government units should have the same firm fiscal policy and let's not when Požega happens or something like that takes place on the side of those just for some political reasons but, let's just say, clearly, one and the other: You've been in debt beyond the rules that were in force at that point. No matter what political party, who the mayor and the chief was. So this is something, I can tell you, this is my fifth budget. I've been a minister for four, five years, and we've given authority for five years. I don't know. We're giving permission to be in charge. I don't know that two or three times we turned down a local self-government unit and only because they didn't have complete documentation. What was the problem was the problem with Rijeka and was the problem with Zagreb and was the problem with Split. That's another thing. It is because of the size of these cities, because of their fiscal capacity and in principle if they gave permission to how much Rijeka wanted, but as much as he asked for Zagreb, as much as Split asked for, they would crack a complete quota. But of these other units of local self-government, you can ask your colleagues from your parties, as well as HDZ's, and you will see that no unit of local self-government has received a negative opinion from the Ministry of Finance. However, if certain units of local self-government were applied at the end of the year, they were the first to be granted borrowing. But I repeat, remember we had a debate here about Pozega and some other units of local self-government. If this law had been respected and these provisions of the law, surely such things would not have happened. I had to say this because of my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance who have worked hard and you can see that whoever comes to us in the audit that we have compliments on how public finances are arranged. You can say whatever you want, it's your political right. But I also cannot allow those who have failed to fill out their tax returns to teach someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23369	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23370	Here, just really short. I have to correct the Minister for my colleagues in the city of Ivantz. Here, the town of Ivanec also didn't win last year. We gave complete documentation but we didn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23371	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23372	Okay, I have information here from the city that it was all right and we didn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23373	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23374	You got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23375	Mr. Arsen Bauk is also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23376	I'll try to correct three incorrect allegations so long as I get there in time. First, as to the minister's claim that the Ministry of Finance has no maltene effect on the level of individual users, it may be true but people from other ministries I met today on two committees have just said the opposite. So, by explaining in four eyes the small budgets said we planned it, so the Ministry of Finance gave us three times the cut. I'm not gonna tell you who it's about. I don't think there's any need. The other thing is, as far as your insinuation is concerned, that I don't know anything about the budget is exactly what you said from 2000 to 2003 exactly because I know something I just noticed what Mrs. Lugaric noticed is that the change is happening and that what we're saying today is actually just some kind of general trial and not what's really going to be done. And the third thing, as far as politicians of general practice, Mr. Schucker is concerned, I'm a mathematician and I'm going to let myself say about numbers regardless of the years that I know more than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23377	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we will continue working with the agenda item Final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 194. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 219. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate about the government's amendment by raising our hands? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal is to discuss the amendment accepted by most votes, 81 votes to, against 8 and 12 abstentions. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the Parliament adopted the amendment of the Government, which reduces the expenditures of the state budget by a billion 951 million 836 thousand and the expenditures of extra budget funds for 350 million automatically, we propose that in Article 26 billion 715 million 950 kuna be replaced by 12 billion 764 million 950 kuna, and in paragraph 3 billion 664 million and 206 thousand 840 kuna be replaced by an amount of 474 million 206 thousand 840 kuna and in such a way by this amendment and this kind of voted budget, we left the Croatian economy with 2 billion and 100 million kuna more resources to be owed, and that was the basic reason for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because in such a difficult situation, these 2 billion and 100 million will certainly come to Croatian economies next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23380	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's proposed amendment. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The amendment was accepted by most votes, 86 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 30 against. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the SDP Representatives' Club. I would ask the proposer's representative to declare the amendments, the first Legislative Committee, to Articles 45 and 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23381	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23382	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. In accordance with Article 51 of the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23383	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23384	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government Amendments to Article 40
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23385	The government does not accept for a simple reason because it is intended and it would be illogical that these funds can be used by one amendment to the budget law for other purposes, because at the end of the day when the legislator proposed the laws and when he defined the funds collected by those laws, why they can be used for the exact expenditures of local self-government units, then it is certain that with such a proposal, the amendment would have ordered this for me and it would have been likely that the funds intended for the construction of municipal infrastructure could be transferred to some other expenditure which is certainly not in the interest of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23386	I would like a representative of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, Mr Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23387	So the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government is proposing this amendment on behalf of the Association of Cities. The chairmanship of the Association of Cities, made up of the mayors of all parties, believes that next year there will be very serious difficulties in cash flow within units of local self-government especially after local elections, not because of local elections but because of the return of income tax, which most local self-government units must return. That was one reason. Another reason is that today there are already problems in the functioning of units of local self-government, because the means of purpose burden therefore the normal functioning of units of local self-government, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on local opposites and the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which our Parliament ratified as a whole. For these reasons, the Association of Cities Bureau has proposed, and the Committee has accepted that an amendment be made which will allow for next year, not to change the law, but to suspend for the following year the provisions of some of the laws which provide for the whole series, and the thought of 13 dedicated revenues of local self-government, can be more flexible, in particular, during the period of 6, 7 and 8 months when there will be a smaller inflow of tax revenues, and on the other hand, when there will be a much greater tax drain because it will be a very serious return to income tax that most cities have. Since the board has not met, I, on behalf of the board, ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23388	Thank you. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would ask the Minister to take note of article 7 of the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, 1st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23389	The government does not accept for the simple reason that such a provision exists for many years, at the end of the year and the positive experience of the European Union tends to increase the flexibility of budget implementation, and as long as the level 4 budget is impossible to implement without the possibility of redistribution as provided for by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23390	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23391	Thank you, Mr. President. The club proposes that the provision of Article 7 be deleted, and this is a redistribution of the budget, whose authority is transferred from Parliament to the Government. We find it unacceptable that the Government is practically making, because we have seen that all the amendments in Parliament given by the Members of Parliament have been rejected, the Government executes and, under this decision, the Law on Budget Implementation will also oversee budget spending. Namely, our Constitution says Parliament is making a budget. The budget law says that Parliament is making a budget, according to the same procedure the budget rebalances. By adopting this formulated Article 7 in the Budget Implementation Act, Parliament will not discuss any budget rebalancing at all during the year, in other words we will adopt one budget today, but on 2 January this budget can be completely different because the government can make a decision on redistribution. According to this, the government would only inform us within 15 days of what it's done, and experience tells us that once the government can redistribute 2 billion kunas as it did with the last redistribution decision a few days ago. So I ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23392	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment to Article 18 of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23393	The government does not accept for a simple reason, the whole state is seeking to balance the state budget, it is a illogical proposal to allow units of local self-government to be more in charge than it was in previous years, twice as much. On the other hand, a question arises in this situation on the financial market where these loans would be found, and what is most symptomatic and what has prompted us to reject this SDP club amendment for the simple reason that every year rarely when, here I am for the fifth year of the minister, it once happened that one or two units did not get approval for the post, but are the first on the list next year. Therefore, this is in charge of 2.3% is entirely sufficient to exclude three major cities in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, but they solve it in other ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23394	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23395	Therefore, this amendment was accepted by the SDP club at the initiative of the Association of Cities or the Presidency of the Association of Cities. I would also like to remind you ministers that when you were mayor, you were in the Association of Cities and the Presidency, and I advocated that local self-government had a higher capacity for borrowing and that when you were mayor of the local self-government unit, they had a significantly higher capacity...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23396	They couldn't be in debt at all in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23397	No, no, they had a significantly higher borrowing capacity than you've been offering since you became minister. At this point of 103 billion kuna, the debt of the general government, 85 billion is the debt of the central state, 16 billion is the debt outside of the budget funds, and the total debt of local and regional self-government units is 1.55 billion kuna. Therefore, 1.5% of local self-government units are in the structure of the general government's total debt. We here suggest that with 500 million dollars next year, this capacity can be increased to 870 million kunas because the first on impact in the crisis will be units of local self-government, because if there will be layoffs there will be fewer income taxes in the budgets of local self-government units. If there's going to be anything else, there'll be less income in local self-government units, and we're only suggesting here that this capacity increase. Today in the Croatian Roads project, a 90 million credit has been removed for the construction of a fast road, and Croatia's roads are said to raise a 3 billion loan there next year to build some ficles, highways between some cities, and here we are talking about 270 million kunas that exist as capacity. So we're not saying that local self-government units are going to be in debt so much, but we're opening up the possibility that the government is considering such demands if units of local self-government meet all other criteria, which means that they've done business with income this year, that they don't have a duty of up to 20%, that they have the ability to repay these investments and everything else. So, when units of local self-government will not be able to borrow from HABOR, because HABOR will otherwise spend its money, when the Regional Development Fund is reduced in this budget, I think it is very incorrect that it is again impossible for local self-government units to maintain the quality of life in their cities, municipalities and counties, especially because, I repeat, this is the request of the Association of Cities Chairmans from all parties, and they have therefore agreed and asked the Government to consider their proposal. Therefore, if this amendment is rejected, then we are ignoring the Association of Cities that we otherwise had to consult when we adopted the budget, and we did not consult when adopting the budget. And the last sentence, so the Association of Cities asked for a meeting with the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of budgeting. Unfortunately, that request has been ignored. We are in this way practically ignoring the entire local self-government which is logical because it is obvious that before the local elections, the government will allocate funds from the state budget where they will need to win votes or buy votes, and the rest will obviously have to continue to manage in the way you said in different ways, because the state does not allow them to function normally. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-10-0.u23398	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the minister. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour of no abstentions, 52 against the adoption of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 together with the amendments adopted. Good morning ladies and gentlemen MPs, we continue to work, move on to: - Final bill on amendments and amendments to the law on textbooks for elementary and high school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 194. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Education of Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, joint representatives Marija Lugarič and Iron Flego, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of Representative Ljubica Lukačić, representative Ivanka Roksandić and representative Furio Radin. Does the Proposer's representative want an additional yes? Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education, Sports, please.
