ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14074	Dear MPs and MPs, we begin today's session according to the announced agenda, points of the 9th edition of the agenda and that - Final proposal of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 84 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Amendments may be submitted until the end, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Vican Diana, secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14075	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools will be presented in concept, structural and according to the steps as qualitative improvements in educational and educational practices in primary and secondary education and education. In terms of concept, it is an act that connects primary and secondary education wherever possible. The law is unique because of the same activity, objectives, principles, organisations, obligations and rights of direct holders of educational activities. The tendency to make it as a fundamental law has also been realised, which can be seen through the need to produce a series of sublegal acts stemming from this law. Sublegal acts ensure a deeper and more detailed development of all segments of educational activity. In structural terms, the law is divided into 20 subunits. General provisions, the Network of School Institutions and Education Programmes and the registration of students in the school institution, the National Curriculum, the Education Plan and the work formats, the School's work organisation, are particularly students. Next Monitoring and evaluation of student achievements, Pedagogical measures, External evaluation and self-evaluation of school institutions, Founding and termination of work of school institutions, School institution workers, Founding and termination of working relationship in school institutions, Professional training, training, improvement, promotion and licensing, School institution management, Student home, Parents' Rights and Obligations, Pedagogical documentation and records, Funding of school institutions, Control, Penal Provisions and Transitional and Final Provisions. The steps of this law which qualitatively contribute to improving and clearer powers and responsibilities in educational and educational practice are as follows: the introduction of an educational standard and initial education of teachers as the main holders of education and education at school, in addition to the main holders of changes and qualitative improvements in schools. We remind you that for the past 40 years, the educational standard of initial education of teachers at higher-school institutions has been on average 150 hours of teaching, which is slightly more than a course of auto-school. The standard of initial teacher education did not even exist because the higher schools themselves created different programmes with a focus on the parent field of studies without a desire to qualitatively improve initial education for work in complex activities of education and education. The European standard of initial teacher education is ten times higher and stronger than ours. With us, if we translate them into ECTS points, 6 ECTS points and standard European is 6o ECTS points. This has another consequence, given that the Bologna process abolished teaching schools, higher-school institutions continue to intend to produce teachers. This law undertakes to implement initial education according to an educational standard that ensures quality work in educational and educational activities. A step is also the objectives of the principle of education and education, which are under the law, and in the acts that will result from this law will continue to be operationalised. The law is innovative by introducing licensing, promotion, awarding and professional training of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors. In our case, the educational differences of teachers regarding teacher competences are significant, especially in the course in question, both at primary school level and at secondary school level. The introduction of systematic training of teachers, teachers and professional associates is based on licensing, but also on continuing professional development obligations for all those who conduct educational and educational work at school. Because our training is unequal, and practice shows a great difference between teachers who, although changes were permanent, we have those teachers and teachers who have never been to any training, and they have done 2/3 of their working life. To date, the training has not been based on an examination of the educational needs of teachers, teachers and professional associates and has not always been with changes in education policy and social and educational change requirements. So we have a consequence that teachers do not often deal with situations such as violence, educational problems, immorality, students' absences, co-operation with parents, self-evaluation and evaluation. It is also a step to standardise the educational level of directors and to improve the position of directors so far, to introduce licensing and their continuous professional development. Over 40% of primary school principals have completed a higher school which is unacceptable for a country that has put the value of knowledge on pedestal social and educational values. There was never a obligation to train the director even though the function itself requires higher knowledge and competence. This law introduces the National Education Standard for Directors. It is a high-school level, and the licensing of directors to be drawn up by a special regulation is assumed to consist of a set of modules that meet the clear competence requirements of the directorial function. It will also ensure continued professional training of directors who do not exist in Croatia today. National curricula and school curricula introduce more transparent work into the realization of educational values and goals, improve the educational dimension, and assumes evaluation. The conduct of national exams in primary and secondary schools and the evaluation of all curriculum components is also a newspaper in this law, as basic education has not so far been prescribed. Changes in the educational system based on evaluation will be carried out strictly on scientific and professional research. National exams in primary and secondary schools in the entire school population have contributed to obtaining a full picture in the educational achievements of our students, which has never been questioned in Croatia. A gradual picture of the situation in primary and secondary education gives us guidance for further implementation of external evaluation. For conducting national examinations from all other teaching courses for the evaluation of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors, for the evaluation of cooperation with parents etc. Valuation is the basis for monitoring and timely intervention in the system in order to permanently improve quality as a fundamental principle of this law. Step into the law is rewarding teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors, including schools. Namely, non-recognition of the best, most innovative, most successful reduces motivation and directly affects quality reduction of educational work. The award is very encouraging for individuals and schools and affects competitive impulses, not only within the country, but also abroad, especially in the European context. The institutions of the Board of Parents and the Council of Students have been introduced, changing the place of subjects in the culture of equal dignity at school. Because for decades, the system of education and education has been a strictly defined purpose, this law creates a culture, the law assumes the code of ethics, the order of the house, the rules of conduct of the students, the law provides for the exception of rules of conduct at school, and, in particular, the ethical code of teachers. State graduation is foreseen in high school since the school year 2009, the tenth and the possibility of a state graduation in four-year vocational and artistic schools. The principle that we've been following, and we believe that you recognize it by reading, is that not all changes are making improvements, but every improvement makes a difference. We therefore expect your heartfelt support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14076	Thank you. The amendments were submitted by the National Minority Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club, the Committee for Human Rights, MP Marija Lugarić, Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, the Committee for Education of Science and Culture, the joint representatives Marija Lugarić and the Iron Flego and the Committee for Legislatives. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. It is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Honorable Representative and Vice-President of the Committee Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14077	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In Professor Selem's absence, I'm going to give a brief, very brief report as vice president, but I thought it necessary to go ahead of you at the beginning of this debate. Namely, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools at its 7th session on 9 July and below on 10 July. I would remind you that an exhaustive description of the amendment and the addition of the law was presented in the debate report on the occasion of the first reading of this law and the proposer introduced a large number of amendments in the final bill. The debate that I mentioned on July 9, or on July 10, once again showed that different views could be aligned, or brought near in much, of course not entirely. And what I would certainly consider necessary here to do is to thank all the members of the Committee, to thank the Prime Ministers, because we seem to be doing for the first time how we should all work regularly. We worked together a lot, compared various suggestions, looked at the good and bad sides of each proposal, and finally the board, the parent board came up with nineteen amendments that were supported by all the board members, so as many as 19. I really hope that the Proposer will accept these amendments, even Mr Vice-President, I suggest that in front of the Government the Proposer declare whether they accept these amendments, in order to direct the debate so that we do not needlessly discuss what is likely to be accepted, at least I hope, so that we can focus our discussion on those elements that are not in line on the Committee itself, thank you, thank you to the promoter who is patiently, the presidents who have listened patiently to all our proposals, initiatives and I think we have done a really good, good job. Here, therefore, I repeat, we have as many as 19 proposals in front of the board, there will be a number of individual proposals, where we could not agree, but I repeat, for the first time, I must say that I was even satisfied during one committee, because in this way we spared you colleagues and colleagues in the plenary session of unnecessary debates on those elements that are given on working bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14078	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club Nevio Šetić. Here you go. As for the amendment, the government's representative will come forward after the debate is over. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Madam Secretary of State, State Secretary, Associate, Honorable MPs, MPs. Let me say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that this time we are passing a brand new Law on compulsory education or primary and secondary education, which has so far reached the most complex and comprehensive level of education in Croatia. I would like to say here that there has been a very professional and dynamic debate both in the first reading and between this second reading, so that our parent committee has adopted as many as nineteen amendments, saying that all MPs have very complexly engaged in this debate and improved this truly complex law. He is complex from some fact-finding fact because he makes his provisions even in twenty chapters. In these chapters, some are almost entirely new because they deal with those topics that have not been defined in the law so far, such as the next national curricula, curricula and programs and forms of work, which is the third chapter here in a different way. I also want to say what I am experiencing is a whole new professional training, training, advancement, licensing, such as external evaluation and self-valuation of school institutions. I would also like to say that in this law it also chapters such as the chapter on students, then pedagogical measures, monitoring and evaluation of student achievements, and the management of school institutions, the rights and obligations of parents, pedagogical documentation and records, the financing of school institutions offer a host of new solutions, modernise and modernise Croatian compulsory school. It should be said in the introduction on behalf of the HDZ Club and the following, that this law unites two systems, primary school and high school. And I want to underline once again that in this way we can fully realize all the forms that accept Europe and the world and that is the magic formula four plus four plus four that are also mirrored here. What is important is that Croatia has decided to expand compulsory education until the first year, or 18 years, which is very important for our future. And secondly, this law fully complies with European standards, experiences but modernises Croatian education in Croatian experience and that is important. But here is something more that MPs and MPs know but because of the Croatian public, which is that the Croatian schooling in the normative part is what the law is, but also that life we live together and the curricula that applies based on all the experiences so far and this external evaluation that is being conducted, this communication school with environment, with parents, with founders, these are important newspapers that live today in Croatian society, in Croatian school practice. I have chosen several areas here today which I would like to particularly underline and I think it is very important to say that the school board is formed and what competence the director has on the basis of this law because there are important newspapers that are introduced today in the proposal, and we will soon have, so that the school board has nine members from now on, and one member appoints a working council and workers directly and eight members appointed by the founder, two members from the teachers, teachers and professional associates on the proposal of the teaching or teaching board, or one member from the school board, one member from the order of parents who is not a school worker on a proposal from the Board of Parents and two members on the proposal of the Office of State Administration, and in school institutions which the founder of the city of Zagreb is two members of the School Board of Management, who, as a rule must have completed the least pre-graduate university study or professional study where at which at least 180 SCTS points can be not appointed to the school board. I read all of this on purpose because it is an important newspaper and it sets out and shows what competence people should have to have who enter the school board so that they can carry out this important and honorable task. Moreover, the founder also appoints three members on their own who must have completed at least a pre-graduate university study or a professional study in which at least 180 SCTS is acquired and cannot be employed by a school institution whose school board is appointed. I believe this choice is quite complex, but it seems to me that these competences will allow less problems because we know that there have been and that schools will be able to manage well this way through the school board. And now I want to say the specificity of the director's working relationship because you know that we had a lot of difficulties earlier, especially about keeping the director's job, so you'll see how this legal proposal solves. He is appointed by the school board, director with the previous consent of the minister for five years. So far it has been for four years and the minister has not given prior consent. Also, if the school board fails to resolve the director on the proposal of the Educational Inspector, if there are reasons for this, the director will resolve the minister on a proposal from the ministry's committee. It also requires a level of education because university graduate studies unlike primary schools, as so far principals could be teachers with high-level vocational training. There is a big debate and you know that education is fully elevated to university level and that education is a branch of science and therefore we need to work on getting both doctoral studies and their people who will mean a lot more in education than we have today even though we have valuable people working on it but even more people will focus in this regard. Also, a licence for the work of the Director must therefore be granted to the Director. If the principal is employed in the school institution, his work contract may rest during the term of the principal's term of office and for the maximum two term of office. This is an important paper to be applied from 1 January 2012. The required level of education and licensing will also apply from 1 January 2012 to prepare the system for more education standards. Here, I purposely showed how school will be conducted and what the role of the school board is and also the principal. I think they're here, that the ministry has found good solutions and that these solutions will bring more stability and responsibility to our schools. Here, let me highlight on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club some other important newspapers that this final proposal brings. So, national high school graduations from school 2009 to 2010 and the possibility of a state graduation in four-year vocational and art schools since the school year 2009/2010 as well. if that's what the students choose. So it's now regulated by law. I would also like to say that these newspapers are suitable so that at the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education they are formed in electronic form the central register of state graduations in which data is stored on all persons who have passed the national graduation, the subject matter, the grades achieved and the percentage points achieved in the state graduation exams and other relevant data for the state graduation. So that area is now regulated by law. Also with regard to the adoption of networks of school institutions and programmes in order to ensure the availability and rationality of the implementation of the educational process, the proposal for a network shall be determined by the founder in his field and the network at national level shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry. Also, before the establishment of a school institution, the founder must obtain a positive opinion from the ministry on the need to establish a school institution that the ministry provides taking into account, accessibility and rationality requirements and other relevant indicators of justification for the establishment of a school institution. You know that Croatia, given its shape, on the island and other parts that we often have institutions with quite few students but you know that the ministry has decided that wherever there is one student there is also a school opening. It's the case of the island of Premuda. That's us, that's the experience we have, so it's good that this is how it's regulated. Therefore, work in school institutions is based on the evaluation of all components of educational and school work and self-evaluation of the direct and indirect holders of educational and educational activities at school in order to achieve the highest quality national educational and pedagogical standard. Important regulations for external evaluation and self-valuation were prescribed for secondary education only. Although this is all in one sentence but this is a huge job and this is, this is developing through the law and giving new basics and opportunities to and this is the newspaper that is also in European experience so that we now get a full picture through both legal competence and here in Croatia. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports also brings national "curriculum" and schools are required to bring school "curriculum". A clear picture is being created that educational outcomes are coming out of the curriculum, coming out, continuing school "curricula" and national "curriculum". So we get one process, one course that unfortunately we have to live. It is not enough just to put it in a legal framework but to live in practice and now we have a complete opportunity. I want to say another newspaper that's very important to me. The educational activity in the school institution is based on the autonomy of planning and organisation and freedom of teaching and methodical work according to the guidelines of the Croatian national educational standard and in accordance with the national "curriculum", the curriculum and the programme and the state pedagogical standard. It also fits into one sentence, but a very complex task and a job. The truth of the will we have recently brought to this High House Croatian state pedagogical standard and we have these frameworks. We have experience of the Croatian National Education Standard, which is both experimentally and truly implemented, implemented and implemented in Croatian education. Although in primary school, based on this experience, you can build on these competences now that have a legal framework and I think it's very well designed. I'm also going to skip all the papers a little bit so I can point out maybe the most important ones. It is very much devoted to the law of attention and to those parts that regulate the protection of the rights of pupils and the obligations of the principal of school institutions to inform the competent authority of social care and other competent authorities. I would like to say that this social, educational, socializing situation that often gives schools headaches is now legally regulated here. Then introduce a new pedagogical measure. The possibility for the Director to remove the student from high school until the end of the procedure, to impose exclusion measures with a view to ensuring the safety conditions of teaching and preventing repeated violent behaviour. And maybe a few more sentences. I would like to say about teachers that the teaching professions in primary school can, except for a person who has completed a graduate university study of an appropriate type, be carried out by a person who has completed a pre-graduate university study or a professional study where at least 180 ECTS points are obtained, the appropriate type has the necessary pedagogical competences. So all these areas around working relationships, about the competences that teachers and professional associates need to have, are built in here. And finally, I just want to express my satisfaction on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that for the first time we have received such a whole law and a whole new law that regulates this important matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14080	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14081	I'm very sorry, Mr. Šetić, that you somehow forced me to do this correction because I didn't want to correct the party's exposure. I'm correcting your claim that this government has defined itself as compulsory secondary education. This government has indeed declared itself a mandatory secondary education but, as in most cases, when a concrete one comes to a concrete one, the government withdraws. And so she didn't get enough political courage to introduce it into the law as a legal obligation, but it remained on a clean declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14082	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14083	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. The SDP club will not support the adoption of this law. Since the debate in the first reading to this day, the promoter has not accepted any of our major remarks despite the fact that many of the professions as well as we have brought out a whole series of serious concept objections to the bill. The final draft of the law continues to be abundant in contradictions, intricacies and the last but perhaps most importantly does not offer education the necessary and necessary changes. Therefore, we do not see the purpose of adopting a new law that completely unnecessarily unites existing laws on primary and secondary education although these two systems link nothing. The primary school is general and mandatory. The middle one is not mandatory in spite of everything. The entire spectrum of vocational education remains to be regulated by a special law anyway. The law introduces some newspapers into a school management system that was possible with only a few novels of changes and additions. This is our impression that we are getting a new law of the new law for the sake of not making the necessary substantive changes in the existing system. At first, I would like to point out in particular that in the debate we at least discussed the European provisions of this law on which there is no dispute, and we would like to point out that the position of P.Z.E. is here. labels on laws such as in this case only hiding behind Europe that will not benefit Croatia in the long term. Of 167 articles of this law, only two or maybe three are European and everything else has nothing to do with the accession of Croatia to the European Union. We really expected that after a good debate in the first reading, the promoter would have the courage to take steps in the system of education, which would mean a step forward in the system of education. We expected courage to introduce a new way of programming, because it only directly affects what is being taught and how in school. We expected courage to set up a system for the promotion and licensing of school workers on a modern and professional basis. We expected courage to strengthen the autonomy of schools and teachers, the courage to pull the school out of the midst of politics. But it all didn't happen, and we got a law that's more or less perpetuating the existing state. My colleagues and colleagues, only education and permanent learning are the only way out for the social development and development of individuals. Education is the only way that can ensure a better standard of living for our citizens. Therefore, we in the SDP really expect that we all trade together and instead of politicizing the concept of a knowledge society on each occasion turn the cycles of the agreement with the aim of reaching consensus on our most important national project to build an education system that will aim to acquire basic and practical competences for life in the 21st century. Instead, we are almost daily witnessing improvisation, politics and almost pathological efforts to show that something is done. Work without results, efforts that cause not improvement, but additional confusion not only are harmful, but areas of education and multiple executions. There is a colleague and colleague, an anecdote. One man complained to another man that he had worked hard all summer to learn how to speak to his dog. When this guy told him, this other guy wanted to talk to that dog. However, this first one told him that this was not possible, for despite his hard work, the dog did not learn to speak. And the changes proposed by this government in education remind us, work for work, and not to achieve results. Because if it were the opposite results would be visible. This is how we witnessed the protests of students and students, the state's graduation was delayed, the national exams dropped more than half of the students, and this is a disastrous fact for systems and programmes over which there is no need to seek justification or to come up with other criteria but to break up and take big steps. Allow a few concrete substantive remarks to which both our MPs and MPs have submitted amendments. For the first time since '91. The law redefines the goals of education and education. According to us, confusingly mixing values and goals by giving some really questionable things. Furthermore, the law also defines registration areas. According to us, the provisions on enrolment areas are backward because they do not allow the freedom of choice for parents to enroll their children in the school they want, but the one that belongs to them in their place of residence. These provisions are also an indicator and deep misunderstandings for other processes that are nominally implemented. For example, for external evaluation. In addition to improving quality, the objective of external evaluation is objectively to assess the advantages of individual schools as well as through competence to impose a better improvement in the quality of teaching. These results can be an indication to parents of the best choice of school for their child, and this is how they become quite excess in that context. Our biggest professional grudge against the law is in Chapter III. A law that defines national curricula and curricula and programmes. This is about deep professional remarks that really have nothing to do with political arbitration which may be present in some other parts, such as defining school board members. Pedagogical science and didactics are in this area and more than clear and unequivocal. The concept of programming by the theory of curricula is essentially broader and more comprehensive than whether it is a concept of programming based on curricula and programmes. And finally, these two concepts are kind of opposing and can't function complementaryly. That's what the waist says. And our ministry says that it is possible to complement the functioning of these two concepts. Or maybe to illustrate it. It is a similar situation for you, for example, that you want to take the car from Zagreb to Karlovac. You have two roads at your disposal. Both roads lead in the same direction, but they're not the same. Each has its perks and faults. One is a modern highway, and the other is an old county road. You can't drive both roads at the same time. You just have to choose one. And regardless of the decision, so which road you'll go to, you'll come to the finish line. It's the same with the curricula and the curricula and the program. Both concepts lead to the goal, but you just have to choose one. We advocate in the SDP to choose a more modern theory of curiculum as most of us who drive will, of course, choose the highway. And we really appeal to the motion that either accept the proposed amendments or intervene with its amendments in this area, because if it stays this way, we'll get additional confusion in the prefuse school system anyway. And given the obstacles in schools, there's another new obstacle we really don't need. A lot of things in this law are declared newspapers that aren't newspapers. One was mentioned by Ms. Secretary of State Diana Vican in her opening statement on the Council of Parents and the Council of Students. This has existed since 2001, so that some of these alleged newspapers are actually recycling a solution that exists or that we had until 2005. These are for example a provision on the employment of teachers and teachers. I am personally pleased that you have returned to the solutions that were before 2005 even though we warned them at the time of the amendment in 2005, that the solutions you proposed at the time were not good and that they would cause a number of problems. Three years later you realized that and you're going back to the old solution and that's totally fine, but it would have been much better if you'd listened to us back then and in schools over the past three years, you'd have deprived of the manipulation of employment. We are afraid that this time too will be with the solutions you insist on, which we warn that they are either wrong or harmful. The paper in this law is the composition of a school board in which most will have local politics for the first time. I am sorry that the promoter does not see the perilousness of introducing politics to schools, although in the past three years, when the process of introducing politics was started, there was more than enough evidence that bad solutions were involved. Although one of the principles that the law calls for in Article 4 is further decentralisation in the system of education, this is in no way open to the law, and will not result in any practice. As part of the school boards, we introduce representatives of the state administration, and the programme remains fully nationalally defined without even the slightest possibility for schools to show the specificities of the region in which they are located and that localised programmes show education according to the needs of the local economy. As far as finance is concerned, this law creates significant new obligations for local, regional self-government units, and it must indeed cease once with the practice of imposing obligations on the locals that they will not be able to fulfil. Because the stakes in this particular case are significantly higher. The funding that units of local self-government will have at their disposal depends on achieving pedagogical standards aimed at equating the conditions in which all children in Croatia are educated. One of the most important things in Croatia is otherwise professional training here is particularly important. Professional training and the constant adoption of new knowledge and skills of teachers and teachers, so those who convey their knowledge to others is almost essential to the success of teaching. The law offers an outdated and insufficiently defined model of improvement. We do not understand why a little more decisive has happened and has appointed an accreditation agency for training programmes as well as, for example, the number of ECTS points that every teacher or teacher has to collect within three years. There are good models here when perfecting, for example, a doctor. On the other hand, the law must prescribe what levels of professional advancement are and what progress has been gained in calling. This is not foreseen in the law, and since the first reading we have come from 5 levels, as predicted by the first reading of the law up to 4, as far as it is now in the final draft of the law, and we have indications that the amendment will ultimately bring this down to at least 3 levels. Does it need better pictures to argue that the law isn't actually ready for adoption at all? This law, with some of its provisions which I will touch a little later, almost gives rise to the need we talked about on the occasion of the first reading of the law, hence the need to adopt a roof law on education that would define the objectives of a certain degree of education, so from kindergarten to a university that would define each level and the interconnection between systems and vertical passing, and horizontal passage between different types of schools. Given the need that is very common in practice, but unfortunately also in the ministry understands the lack of understanding, therefore, given this need to set up specialised agencies that are intended to separate professional jobs from administrative and political roof laws, there is also a need to regulate mutual relations between agencies as well as between agencies and the ministry. If this first step had been the basis, now the Government would not have suggested that teachers and teachers' licenses decide the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which is not at all part of the job description, and not the Agency for Education and Education, which is in the job description, they would not have suggested that a council for curricula be established in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but rather those jobs would have been done, given that it is a professional job as a special law and as defined by the Education and Education Agency. Such examples are still in the law, they only show that this government does not have a clear concept of the way to the future of Croatian education, and no matter what existing laws, and we are well aware that when we do not know where we are going, it is not good for Croatian education, but it is not good for the development and future of Croatia. And lastly, what do I think is a question for all of us representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, what is the value of the documents we adopt in the Croatian Parliament? I remind you that a little over a year ago in Parliament, we adopted a National Programme of Measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. It is a national consensus, but it is also a matter of wit that extends the duration of compulsory education. In this law, a decision that only primary school is mandatory is petrified, and it is said so in the law. I repeat, it is a question of wit, but also of national progress, to extend the duration of compulsory education until the first qualification or graduation is obtained. There is a national consensus about this, but from the government, apart from the declaration, we didn't get almost anything to go towards that goal and move on. The same programme defines textbooks, accommodations in student dorms and transportation of pupils in all primary and secondary schools of government salaries. I do not want to open a debate now on the justification of these measures because they have been adopted regardless of all the recommendations about them and should therefore be respected. In this law, however, there is no word on how it is an obligation for the State to finance textbooks for students in the articles on funding. That is what we have stated in our first reading, and the Proposer answers how it was settled in the Bookbooks Act. But, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, he did not. The law on textbooks defines that the state provides textbooks for compulsory school because when we passed that textbook law, you thought at the time to define high school as mandatory, but since it did not happen and how in this law you gave up that high school is mandatory, it now turns out if we do not change it to the amendments to illegally provide funds for the procurement of textbooks in secondary schools. It's the same thing with the accommodation of students in dormitories. You have boasted of funding from the state of these needs a great achievement, and now in law you suggest that the units of local, or regional self-government finance do so. Therefore, given the many discrepancies that I fear are not only the consequences of sleekness and speed but also conceptual wanderings, I wonder what the meaning of the adoption of acts of national programmes here in the Parliament is when you come out of the government with some new stories that are contrary to those adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Finally, there are provisions in this law that are not even the least elaborated, which must be developed in law. It relates to the licensing of directors, secretary's jobs and some perhaps a little less important provisions. In addition, according to this law, the minister will have to adopt 46 different regulations within a year, not counting the consent and solution he has to give. This means that schools are based on curricula, plans and programmes, state pedagogical standards, Croatian National Education Standard and 46 regulations. Finally, due to all the above, due to the concept of obsolescence and professional misunderstanding, further centralisation, but also the unpreparedness for the necessary changes, the SDP club will not support the adoption of this law, we have no objections to the provisions of harmonisation with the European acquis on schooling of migrant children, but given the far-reaching lack of solutions in the remaining 163 articles, the law will ultimately not be able to obtain our... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14084	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague incorrectly stated that the P.Z.E. code. means just hiding behind harmonisation with European legislation. Namely, this law is a very important issue, such as involving foreign citizens' children in the Croatian school education system, it is systematically and extremely important that it is on the agenda today, and it is extremely important that this part of the coordination be coordinated. As you know, education has ended among the first, temporarily closed chapter and we can be free to be proud of everything that has been achieved in education itself and as far as legislation is concerned, this law means one step forward, especially in this section. We used to have articles, maybe just one part of the article on the changes, so we brought P.Z.E. Sometimes a point is important, let alone so many articles that are really this important matter such as the issue of foreign citizens' children in the Croatian school education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14086	Thank you. We're going to interrupt the debate for a moment to complete the agenda, so allow me to introduce the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue the debate and the individual debate. Excuse me, Secretary of State on behalf of the motion after the debate of the clubs. Here you go, Reverend Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14088	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs allow me to briefly say what we had between the first and second readings of this bill and to thank all of you who participated in the debate in the first reading, especially all of you who participated in the work of the committee before the second reading of this law and helped us as legislators with our proposals and amendments to improve the text of this law. I must stress immediately that we have agreed first and foremost with the parent board and we will accept all amendments to the parent committee. Indeed, the debate was very professional and extremely high quality and the solutions offered are indeed quality solutions, as well as the Committee on Law, and these other amendments, which the MPs have submitted individually, will be declared when the amendments are voted on and on the text of the law itself. Let me say here briefly after the presentation of the representatives of the clubs that there was one obligation when it was amended, when amendments were passed and the amendments to the law on basic education were then adopted, and on the proposal of the representatives of the opposition parties to pass a new law, not to go into change but to adopt a new law and of course we have now and done so, it was necessary to do so before, so I find it odd to note that the law should not in general be passed when there is a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament to pass a new law. Furthermore, when it comes to harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, I must stress here that it is four very extensive articles that edit this matter that I hold extremely well arranged, and there is also a declaration of coherence that we have received from the European Commission. There is indeed a lot of news in this law, and in your own discussions, you have had opportunities in the first reading, as well as on committees, I hope now and in the individual debate. Therefore, this finding that work is done, not because of something being done, does not really stand in the past just over four years. A number of laws have been passed in the Croatian Parliament, I will remind the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, and then the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and the first time introduced an external evaluation of education in the Croatian school system, which we have never had before. Of course, the National Centre has started work and conducted national exams. Similarly, the Law on adult education was adopted, a professional institution for adult education was established. Furthermore, another professional institution has been established, that is, the Professional Education Agency. Many times in this House of higher education there was a requirement to better cover this system of vocational secondary education and we did so by establishing such an institution that is certainly much more quality to support the system of vocational education than it was before when we had only a few advisors at the former Educational Institute. Furthermore, I will not talk about other news such as the implementation of the Bologna Process, such as the construction of numerous school facilities etc., and therefore the finding that something is just being done and not really doing something really seems to me to be not standing. This is where the enrolment area question was created. I will remind that even according to current legal decisions when it comes to determining registration areas, they are of course determined in larger places, on the streets, but also now there is the possibility that if someone for some reason wants to enroll their child in another registration area, that it is possible. It is true that there is no coverage of transport costs if it is more than 3 or more than 5 km. So we confirm what existed before, and if we were to completely liberalize this, then there is really a danger that some schools would be broken, and in other schools almost there would be no students. Therefore, being responsible for this means doing so. A special section relating to the curricula, both national and school plans and programmes, I will remind myself that this extensive work on making national curricula has been started, but this job has not been completed and we cannot stay in some empty space that we do not know what it is that is valid. So, until the national curricula is brought forward, of course, teaching plans and programmes must work, as well as the annual plan and programme of school work that each school brings to September 30th of the current school year. The question of the school boards of this kind of structure is what is now with this supplement, one of the only ones where the members who are going to propose state administration offices are basically what was adopted by the amendments to the Law on primary and secondary education in 2001, and then most of them in the Croatian Parliament were slightly different, so it's odd that this is now going to be a grudge. Then I don't know who this grudge should actually be addressed to. There's actually no new financial commitments for local self-government here. I will remind you that when it comes to the cost of accommodation and nutrition in the dormitories, we have so far had that part on the founders, so on the units of the district or regional self-government of 50% of the actual cost of accommodation in the dormitories. Since the conditions for it to be a 100% amount have been obtained, it remains on those who have so far paid, only increases the rest of the amount in such a way that the decentralised funds go the full amount, and of those founders who do not have enough funds, which will not reach the minimum financial standard that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines each year. These funds will be settled from the Enabling Fund and nothing is disputed there. Progress in calling was discussed last time. The proposal, of course, was to make it very clear which calls would be, unlike the mentor and advisor so far. Of course, we accepted that obligation on ourselves and what we were obliged to do, so before the law came here, just like in the first reading, GSVU with its partners or social partners agreed this part. Since our unions represent the largest part of the staff in both the primary and secondary education systems, they have therefore suggested that we go with this solution without the title. But let's say, at least three calls in this vertical advancement with the opening of possibilities and horizontal advances. This is the solution that we have agreed and behind it we are standing and, of course, in the making of the rules they will participate with us after the profession gives its professional basis. We believe that this is a very correct agreement that opens up opportunities for it to be true and as we are said to be behind that obligation. When it comes to the roof law on education, I will remind you that there is something that is roofing, it is the Law on institutions so that this part is actually solved. And when it comes to other laws, of course we're going to try to topple this system and we've already announced it and you know it for the last quarter of this year and the Professional Education Act. Free textbooks, of course, are defined in the Bookbooks Act. I will remind here that in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament from the opposition ranks, the Croatian Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Arlovic, made it very clear that if there is funds in the state budget that they can be secured. So it is not at all questionable to continue as it will be this year, to obtain free textbooks for high school students, specifically this year and for second grade...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14089	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14090	And later on for the other classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14091	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14092	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting three allegations. Mr. Secretary of State said that this law is being passed on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. I remind you that the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament said that the government proposed the adoption of a new Law on Obligation Education, and you still did not respect that conclusion because this is not the Mandatory Education Act. Secondly, you said that the solution with nine members of the school board was exactly that in 2001 when the majority was different. In 2001, it was introduced that the composition of the school board is 3 parents, 3 teachers and 3 presidents of local self-government, unlike now that you have 3 teachers, 1 parent and 5 government, which local self-government. And the roof law on institutions in this sense that we talked about on behalf of the club is not true that it is roofy and competent for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14093	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Privi is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14094	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I, as well as during the debate in the first reading, will warn the proposings about part of the provisions of the law that I still think are missing and I think there is still time for repairs. And since this proposal accepted, or not accepted, the proposals from the first reading are not decided, so let's take a turn. Article 119(3) and (4) which speaks of the appointment of external members of school boards will result in the fact that the employees of one school will have to be appointed to the school boards of other schools, especially in smaller communities and municipalities, or a dozen people in a smaller county will be appointed to all school boards according to what has been seen so far. I don't know why it's so rigorous, it's like a science institute. As far as parent representation on the school board is concerned with one representative, it is formalism and formality because parents will not really be able to influence the organisation of work at school more, because everything about the profession is not in the responsibility of the school board, and the issue of school arrangement, teaching course, discipline and everything else that should be the subject of decision-making of the school board should not be a master or doctor of science. The appointment of the director, as it is now made means only one thing, it does not match the founder, but corresponds to the minister and it will be the only criterion of behavior most directors. In Article 51(1) and (2), something with mathematics is wrong. It shall be prescribed in paragraph 1 that it shall not be more than 6 hours a day, and in paragraph 2.30 and 2 a week. If it's 5 working days, 6 hours, that's 30. If it's 6 working days, how do you meet standard 6 hours a day maximum and 32 hours a week maximum? I don't understand. If you take one, at least two days, it won't work for 7 hours. This was not understood by teachers at school and warn that one and the other is difficult to achieve if two days per week, or physical education, class classes above that. So consider paragraphs 1 and 2. You will see that both are more limited, almost impossible to respect. Article 66 speaks of the termination of student status. There is no class of student exclusion in the grounds for stopping student status. So I ask the promoters if it's deliberately dropped or if it's thought that disfellowshipping a student does not lose student status. Furthermore, Article 84(4) refers again to exclusion, but I believe that it should be added from school to obtain the right to pass a class examination. And at the end of the article 113th but not the very end, it speaks of the director's right to send an employee to assess his ability. I also talked about it in my first reading and warned that this could be the subject of manipulation as far as the restriction is being imposed here that it cannot be repeated without a certain protection period, because it can theoretically happen that the director of one and the same employee is sending it every two, three months for the assessment of their ability. It is difficult to make proposals to the proposings when they interfere with fellow MPs, then. So I'm gonna have to do it again because you've been distracted by my fellow MPs. Article 113 speaks of the first director, sending an assessment of the employee's ability to work. Every two months, every month, every two weeks, once a year, twice a year. It would be very good to put a certain deadline here to prevent the possibility of abuse, so that it does not really come to any discrimination in this way. Finally, Article 166(2) refers again to an article which regulates the obligations of local, regional self-government since 01 January 2009 and calls for Article 143(1) and (2). Article 143(1) and (2) speaks of elementary school, and here in Article 166 when you refer to those points, it speaks of secondary schools. And now I'm asking again, Mr. Secretary of State, is it the obligation of the county and the cities to take from 01. 01. In 2009 at 2010 for the school year, does he meet obligations for primary school or secondary school students? What's the catch? See Article 143 of points 1 and 2 of this section about the transport of primary school students and the accommodation and nutrition of pupils in dormitories. In Article 166 you are referring to these two points, and you have been saying since the school year 2009 and 2010 for first, second and third grade high schools. And to the new indent, since the school year 2010, 2011 for students of all classes of secondary schools, primary or secondary schools. I warned you in my first reading, no changes were made or I really misread the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14095	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14096	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. With great satisfaction, I have found that one part of the first reading remarks was adopted by the legislator on the committee, as well as by the Assembly, but with great dissatisfaction, I have found that it is a matter of pure techniques and of no substance or key change. There are five reasons to worry and five reasons why this law is unacceptable to me in this form. He's partial, he's retrograde, he's missing and it's professionally missing, he's concentrated and he's contradictory. He's partial because he's missing most of secondary education, it's vocational education, and in that partiality he's mechanical, because he's combined primary and secondary education into one whole, and there's really no connection in it. That link was supposed to be what makes it retrograde. The link should have been a political will to try to make legal secondary education mandatory, not only declarative, and it is retrograded so that Croatia is likely to remain only with Albania in Europe as a country that has no compulsory education until the first qualification or state graduation. The same is the case because it does not follow UNESCO's criteria, international criteria on standards of education that distinguish between four and five degrees of primary and secondary school as opposed to those of us who have two solid eight years of primary, four years of high school. It is highly lacking because it has already been about the incompatibility of the curiculum and the curriculum and the programme. If this is such a problem, it could be solved by transitional provisions. And secondly, it makes one nakarada of the law in Article 3(2) where public service is divided from public authority which is simply not possible in law-protected interests and is not allowed because the state does not have the authority of education so that it can then transfer its authority to somewhere different than that authority for education has different institutions in the form of public service. Therefore, you have the right to make it mandatory under public authority for the school to keep records of enrolments and not to organise records, to keep records of follow-up and not to organise classes. That law is concentrated. It has been concentrated from now on with amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. The minister of fellow Members and colleagues shall adopt 50 regulations. He couldn't have passed the State Prom rule over a few years. Now you need to bring in 50 regulations. I don't know how it's gonna work together. And the stages of progress, regardless of the situation in the Economic and Social Council, actually remain with the arbitration work of the minister. This means that as the minister changes, the degrees of teachers' progress will be defined differently. So what kind of system is that? How will teachers know what awaits them in their advancement and their lives. And finally, the law is contradictory among other things because it is contrary to the existing laws. It is about the Agency's powers and powers of the External Valuation Centre. It is that HNOS now extends to secondary education and it is compulsory or it refers to basic education. I hope that horror doesn't happen in high school. Besides, about HNOS, almost no one talks about it anymore, etc. The knowledge society that we've all defined ourselves for, and what the consensus is about requires different solutions. It requires an entirely legal solution, not a partial one. It requires advanced and not retrograde, requires professional and not professionally lacking, requires decentralised and autonomous and not recentralised, requires consistent and not contradictory. Our colleagues and colleagues, we make new normative solutions to introduce new practices. If these normative solutions are contradictory and unspecified, then so will practice. Therefore, this law too, I fear much more against the knowledge society than for the knowledge society, and we also believe that this law, as well as other laws, should effectively change the situation of things rather than just declarative and propaganda and these are the reasons why I cannot decide and support this law in this form in which it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14097	Thank you. And now I have a few notices. The first announcement is that the 9th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports will be held today on 14 July 2008 at 14:00 at Janko Draskovic's Hall (202) Committee Chairman Milanka Opačić. The 1st session of the Sub-Committee Croatia's scout parliamentary union will be held today on 14 July 2008 at 14.30 am at Janko Draskovic's Hall (202) Committee Chairman Milanka Opačić. I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a ten-minute hearing at 10 o'clock and 47 minutes. Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Željir Janjic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14098	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Very short. So, first of all, I'm going to say that this law is not partial because I made it very clear in my previous address that we have taken the obligation to adopt the Law on Professional Education. Therefore, blame him now for being partial because there is no solution for vocational education, and if that is very clear then please let me ask you to accept it. Furthermore, when we talk about compulsory secondary education, we, of course, brought here in the Croatian Parliament last June 21st the document National Programme for the introduction of mandatory secondary education. Believe it and you know it from the press after a number of consultations with the Constitutional Court experts who have made it very clear that a transitional period of preparation for compulsory secondary education should be made. That's what we announced, that's what we're standing behind and of course there's going to be a moment when we can sanction it legally. At this point, respecting a profession that has made it very clear that something should change in the Constitution, of course, that we have accepted it. And I don't see anything controversial about it. When it comes to Mr. Flego, I ask you to be patient, not to announce in advance that this will certainly not be accepted. And finally, when it comes to sublegal acts, let us at this point have 32 sublegal acts relating to basic and secondary education and under this law will be 36. So please don't exaggerate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14099	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14100	Mr. Secretary of State, you told us but we told you something else, so we'd much rather discuss the whole solution than part by piece without knowing what the whole thing is. So is the Law on Professional Education. The same way we did our consultations. We've been told by experts on constitutional law that we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14101	I'm sorry, I didn't hear what quote you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14102	I'm correcting Mr. Secretary of State's claim that this is a complete solution and I'm saying it's partial because we now have one law of three laws under discussion. Secondly, I am correcting that it is impossible for the Constitution to introduce compulsory secondary education because, according to our consultations with constitutional lawyers, it is quite possible because it does not derivate the Constitution. And thirdly, I am correcting the assumption that I hope so we are, I have shown myself to what you have suggested as Article 3(2). If you're going to adopt our amendment, I'm going to be overjoyed, but for now that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14103	Thank you. Let's move on with individual debate, distinguished representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14104	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State and representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here's a little bit, unlike the predecessors, I will support the proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools with a final draft of the law that the Government sent to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption and which was qualitatively completed between the first and second readings by adopting proposals for both the parent board of education and the proposals of MPs and MPs which were presented in the debate in the first reading. This bill bears the European law mark because it is in accordance with European Union legislation in one of its segments. In the rest of the new solutions, it ensures the approximation of the Croatian system of secondary and primary education to the relevant systems of the Member States of the European Union. I support and welcome the coordination of primary and secondary education activities as part of a single system of education and education, respecting the specificities of both levels of education and education as well as the unique law governing this for our society. Why not mention that this law was preceded by the adoption of state pedagogical standards of primary and secondary education and education systems which established criteria for material, financial, human and other conditions necessary for the achievement of educational and educational activities and equal development of these systems throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In my debate, I would like to point out a few facts that I consider particularly significant. This law lays down, in Articles 9 and 10, the adoption of a network of schools and programmes necessary to ensure the availability and rationality of the attainment of the educational process in one area. First of all, I would like to thank the promoter for having followed the proposal made in the previous debate. So in the discussion of the first reading, the proposal for a network of schools in its area is being adopted or proposed by the founder, not as it was in the first draft of the law to be done by local and regional self-government units. And this law therefore found that the founder and for the territory of the Republic of Croatia the school brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry. Article 16 provides that an integral part of the network of schools is also an entry area which determines the areas from which pupils are enrolled in a particular primary and secondary school. And I don't think colleagues and colleagues that the enrolment area is strictly resolved by this law because the article 18, which, under what conditions can a student be entered in the first grade of primary school and which does not belong to the registration area, bear witness. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the second and final draft of the law also found that the network network, the proposal for a network of school founders must be delivered to the Ministry within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Network of Schools for the territory of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to bring it within a further 6 months. So for a year and a half, then for 18 months we could have a network of schools for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And yes, since I agree and support this law, I no longer owe it. I would just like to point out that I support this proposal contained in this law, which is that the classroom in primary schools can teach or work and graduates, because it is better for a first-rate professionally educated young man than to have a large number of unprofessional, represented workers who teach our children and young people in primary schools. Here is a short contribution to the debate once again, and I stress that I support the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14105	Thank you. Dear representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14106	Dear Vice President, State Secretary and Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. The first thing that comes into the eye is the fact that the existing two basic and secondary school laws are replaced by one for which there is no excuse. This would make sense if compulsory education was extended until the first qualification or graduation, which is the SDP programme. Or if high school were to be made mandatory as is the promise of the Minister of the Primorac but unfortunately still unfulfilled. In an explanation that by adopting this law, the education of the Republic of Croatia will join, it also does not stand up to European systems because the European Union does not have a single policy on primary and secondary education but is already in the Member States' competence. I found it particularly interesting to have articles that prescribe the conditions and obstacles for establishing a working relationship and the appropriate level of education in accordance with the levels of education prescribed by the law governing higher education. Thus, Article 105 of paragraph 6 reads one newspaper that says: "Teacher's work in primary school can be done by a person who has completed a graduate university study of an appropriate type or undergraduate university study" and so on. Not to quote now. So I put the emphasis on a completed undergraduate study, or on our first-graders. On these days, the first generation of first-generation students, or students from the completed 3 years of study, appeared on the labour market. It's like they surprised us all a little too quickly, and they graduated too quickly and they showed up on the market. Almost like overnight and the market doesn't know where to go with them. And Minister Primorac doesn't know what to do with them. It announces the adoption of a Regulation on the classification of civil servants to regulate the possibility of hiring a first-rater. It is good that the regulation is passed but does not the process take place in the opposite direction of the standard? Only now that we have people on the market are we thinking about how to regulate their rights and how to enable them to work in state institutions. The minister announces the stands throughout "Beautiful of ours" where to educate the businessmen for being first-raters? Is it just now? Wasn't that supposed to be done two, three years ago? And then what happens? Another experiment. The Ministry is making a rescue decision. Amendments to Article 105 and allows first-graders to be employed as teachers in primary schools although they do not have sufficient professional or methodical training. And not to say that it is absolutely against European standards. And this law is reportedly harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Another, another interesting thing about this law that has attracted my attention, which is to mention that education work at school is done in one shift if it is allowed by spatial, human and other working conditions. Unfortunately, in most cases, conditions don't allow it. At least it's in my county and I come from Brodo-Posavina County, officially the poorest county in the Republic of Croatia. As an example, I will cite the regional school of the “Blaško Dijanović” elementary school in Podkklalje, a village near Slavonski Brod, where due to its very low teaching capacity only takes place for students from first to fourth grade. But that's why the home school works three shifts at the same time. I don't have to mention that all the paperwork and project needed to build a new school building has been made for a long time, but the financial resources just don't exist. For the end, I can't help but mention two more facts about my city. In fact, we are the only ones in the Republic of Croatia who have a university that the state does not finance. I apologize and the High School of Education is now asking whether we have or not, whether a memo came from a rector from the University of Osijek a month ago, that the High School of Teachers was abolished. However, the situation has been such that both the city and the county have co-financed high school so far, and this was not legally required. For all of this, I will not support this law. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14107	Thank you. And we have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm really sorry that this is the way one law is assessed. But it is incorrect that this law is allegedly in line with European Union legislation. It is particularly coordinated in part of the issue of foreign citizens' pupils, or the children of foreign citizens who come to Croatia, and is particularly helpful to them. Therefore, it is in concrete line with European legislation. And as for the teacher of the class in question, you did not want to read the article deliberately until the end of the article which clearly states that those who complete pre-graduate university studies or professional studies must have at least 180 ECTS points of the appropriate type and have the necessary pedagogical competences. So nothing that is not in line with Croatia's current practice and with European legislation and European practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14109	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In her debate, she presented a number of incorrect allegations especially of those relating to the area of Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod from which I also came. But not to spread this debate, I am correcting the incorrect quote of a colleague who claimed that the government does not want to finance the Grand Court in Slavonskibe Brod. This is simply not true, because if a colleague had read and made a decision, i.e. a regulation on the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod founded by the Government in 2006, she would have seen that financial obligations towards the Velect in Slavonski Brod as well as other universities were assumed by the rest of the ministry, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14111	I thank you. We continue with an individual debate. Honorable representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Law on primary and secondary education first unites these two school systems and directly affects about 700,000 students and 60,000 teachers, respectively. A series of newspapers such as a network of school institutions, external evaluation and self-valuation, national and school curricula, and a common register of school institutions are being introduced. Since school is a living system I'll try to look back at its basic three elements. The first students are like users. So far, laws have mostly talked about student rights, and now their responsibilities are being introduced. The pedagogical measure of the extended professional procedure is also introduced, and better defines the move to another school. For the purpose of prevention, violent behavior and addiction, children should be kept at school for as long as possible, and therefore all forms of work that teachers spend with their students should be duly approved. As for the obligation of parents, parents had the right and obligation to be informed of the progress of their children. However, there are cases that parents regularly attend school discussions without any positive shifts. Correction exams due at the end of June should be evened with high school, as children who do not master material all year will not do so for a few days unless they usually have time from the end of the school year to the correctional exam. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to introduce a week of extended teaching that would help children without parents paying for instructions. The student or his parent has the right to appeal, however, it is better to define whether the appeal period is running from a written statement. It means when a student gets a book or a testimony, or verbally, when the grade is in class. Two. Teachers as educators. One of the newspapers is the obligation of teachers to systematically improve and license. So far, training has depended on the school's financial resources. Professional training should be very well defined, since frontal lectures at professional meetings are not something that students benefit from. Every teacher should be informatively written, for there are also those who are not. As for the financial resources needed for this, it would not be great, as schools could do so through their IT teachers. During the renewal of the licence, the results of the work should primarily be taken into account, both the regular teaching and the results in the extracurricular activities, taking into account the results of the external evaluation for the items to be valued. No licensing should be taken into account only how many seminars the teacher was sitting on and how many workshops he visited and thus collected the required number of points. Also, what about teachers who do not renew their license? The directors will be appointed after the minister's consent. Only a person with high professional training and licence may be selected at the Director's posts. So far there has been no school for directors and the introduction of licences is a major positive shift. Different countries approach this complex problem differently, as it is necessary to get new knowledge that a man who comes from the classroom did not get in college. The external evaluation has been carried out experimentally for two years and has been invested in large financial resources. He brought certain results that schools should certainly analyse and apply in improving their work. These results can also be used as one of the criteria for teachers’ advancement, although the social conditions in which students live should be taken into account. And three, school as an institution. The introduction of a new network of schools will streamline resources for the transport of students. The founder should consult local administration and schools that know the situation best with the number of students in his field. In any case, this law, along with pedagogical standards and improving and approaching European education models, is also the ultimate goal of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14113	Thank you. Mr. Representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14114	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, Secretary of State. I'm going to talk about the second aspect of this law, and that's the one that applies to local, regional, regional self-government and school management. It seems to me that this law has several hidden intentions. One of the hidden intentions is to get two representatives of the ruling coalition into the school board as soon as possible because after three years we are going again with the change of the school board's composition in a way that reintroduces something that we threw out in 2005, and that is to say that the state administration's office appoints a representative to the school board. We therefore increase the number of representatives, the number of members of the school board in such a way that all other representatives are elected by someone or delegated by someone, and that 2 members, on a proposal from the Office of State Administration, are appointed or proposed by the head of state administration. So the head of the state administration's office will have a discretionary right to propose two representatives to the school board. Now, I would understand that if, out of this need for the state to be directly involved in school management, the direct obligation of the state to sort of support those schools. But then we come up with articles that talk about what the state will provide in its budget, which must be provided by local self-government units in its budget, and we see that as far as financial obligations are concerned, the state raises its hands even more than primary and secondary education, but therefore puts its paws on management. Therefore, someone else needs to secure the money, and we will ensure influence in those schools. I don't see any reason for the state administration's office to propose two representatives to the school board. It would make sense to me that we here strengthened the role of maybe the parent, perhaps the founder that the one who gives the money, which are the founders, has some kind of normal influence on school boards. But here we go after it, so we have a situation that in the next few months there will be a huge overlap obviously on the school boards and that the Office of the State will certainly propose only to the school boards the sole representative of the ruling majority, it is completely unequivocal. What is still devastating is that the founder does not even have the right to disband the school board, but the disbanding of the school board is carried out by the office of the state administration, or city office. One educational inspector has much more authority than the founder, and when we talk about the founder, then we talk about the city council and the county assembly, not about the mayor and the mayor, not about the office for social activities in the city and the county, but about the representative body. Thus, here one person in terms of the head of the state administration's office is much stronger than the whole, for example, the County Assembly, which is completely illogical. Furthermore, it is illogical that the state does not want to be solidarity in the construction of school facilities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is something that I remained consterned, be careful in Article 142(3), says that the state budget will provide funds for schools that began to be built on July 1st, 2001, which are not finished. So tell us, is there really a school from 2001 that isn't finished until today? So who's responsible for eight years of not finishing the school that the state took over? Well, I can't believe it's even written in this law. And when we submitted the amendments, then the representatives of the ministry said, you know, the 2001 law must no longer invest in building primary and secondary schools. Well, now we have a law where you can change that. But no, it was just an excuse for you because you have no will to change that. You do not want to go after the state to take responsibility for creating or implementing the pedagogical standards that we recently adopted for primary and secondary education. You get out of it, you say something you'll handle through some loans, but gentlemen, EIB2 has been reported for Easter 2005 and no decisions have yet been made on what will be built from the EIB2. It's only now being considered. So imagine who can report it four years ago, and today, then wait and see if it's going to build. So who didn't build that school he applied to EIB in 2005? And we'll have political discretion again. Schools will only be built somewhere, and somewhere else they won't be built. Therefore, if you had a real desire to change what you said was not good in the 2001 law, you would have done it. You didn't do it, you're all the more transferring material obligations to local self-government units. Those laws are contrary to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, especially with amendments to the 2005 laws, because in the law very explicitly states that local self-government units, which means cities can be founders of secondary schools. The law explicitly states that these can't be cities, but that only units are regional and regional self-government founders of secondary schools. Therefore, our problem here is that we are in line with European legislation, and we are ignoring what we have already adopted in European legislation. We have neglected here that, with our and our European Charter of Local Self-Government, we should have had the position of the association of cities, the association of municipalities and the county community, this is not what we have here. Then why have we adopted the European Charter of Local Self-Government at all? So that we could say in the European Union, yes, we adopted it. Well, it must also be applied once we adopt some of the European laws here in the Croatian Parliament. This law in its essence regarding management of primary and secondary schools has elements of further centralisation of governance. As for responsibility for creating material conditions, there is a further step in decentralisation, but only in commitments, not in money. The Ministry of Education received an increase in the budget on budget rebalancing. However, we did not get an increase in minimum standards, and it turns out that primary and secondary schools will not collect electricity. I must warn you that electricity in primary and secondary schools has collected more than 30% since July 1st. Where will the higher bills of electricity be paid for in the fall in this? Gas will go up. Where's that going to pay? School transport, reportedly carried students in primary schools, gasoline and oil has not been collected for them. When the state pays, then it's collected, and there's something we've increased. So, we have indeed one general trend currently in Croatia, further centralisation of governance and further centralisation of universal control over local self-government units, we have further to transfer obligations to local self-government, but at the same time not to transfer money, but even more so, every new amendment of the law is re-attached into urban and county budgets and more money is taken. I finally have to say that I am truly completely disappointed with this law regarding this part of which I am talking about, because I expected the ministry to decide to transfer responsibility to local self-government, to be in solidarity with local self-government in achieving the standards adopted, but you know that this law, what my colleague Flego was saying, is that we would see why standards are so intense. Well, because the state doesn't intend to finance the achievement of those standards. Well, she doesn't think the state is building primary and secondary schools, which is why she's made such standards because she's fucking about how it's gonna be, but that's why the minister's gonna call mayors and mayors who won't make it. But the mayor and mayor, or the city mayoral council, will not have any influence on that school board larger than the state administration's office, either, or I'm not talking about control anymore. I therefore think that this law is not in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government but even more so that it is contrary to it and contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14115	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mrs. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a series of incorrect allegations, here's one. The mayor of the town of Koprivnica, a respected colleague, said the EIB2 was a candidate that was four years ago, was in April 2005, so three years ago. And the incorrect allegation that public administration offices will appoint representatives of the ruling majority among the members of the school board, because I don't think that's true. The Office of State Administration will propose for members of the school board of persons who have the least status of first-raters and then I am surprised why as founder, the founders' representative do not welcome the rise of the educational structure of the school board members who are now first regulated by this law but politically, or politically, only refer to the political dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14117	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14118	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, I am correcting Mršić's incorrect claim that the European Investment Bank 2 programme is not doing anything yet. That's not true. Over the past year, a large number of cities have signed contracts with the European Investment Bank 2 Programme Ministry. The project is under way and my city is under way, investing $12.5 million. And I will also remind you of the European Investment Bank programme 1 where funds were made available and for schools which was also made throughout a number of cities for school institutions, for kindergartens, for construction and further there is a C5 programme that also goes through our ministry. The World Bank programme that goes through the ministry and significant funds are invested in building, equipment, rebuilding primary and secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14119	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's incorrect that the state doesn't want to be solidarity with local self-government units and that it doesn't want to invest in education infrastructure. Here's a colleague before me. I want to say that the state is the biggest investor in school infrastructure. She's the one who's actually a blocker, who invests huge funds. Well, hundreds of schools are either restored or newly built precisely thanks to state support, thanks to the programs that the state has. And secondly, nothing here is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, it's also incorrect what you said. And the third thing, clearly and logically, is that an educational inspector under the Law on Educational Inspection has an impact on the processes that happen and monitors what happens in accordance with the laws within the school system, and it is logical that he has in some parts of the power greater than the City Council, because the City Council is dealing with fellow policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14121	State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14122	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let me just answer it for a second. When it comes to public administration offices, they carry out certain tasks for education according to explicit legal powers. So they're directed to cooperate with the founders. It is not bad that they are also in the administrative part together with the founders and it was a motive and from the good part of the MPs in the debate it was last time and supported. The parents are on the school board according to the principle of representativeness, so the council of parents is what it proposes. Whether or not they're going to be one or two irrelevant, but it's important that they be on the school board itself. When it comes to the construction of school facilities that entered the state budget before 2001, then the ministry's obligation to build these facilities and bring them into a state of full functionality. I will remind the esteemed MP of two examples of what has happened that some objects have not been completed as planned and which have not yet been, and unfortunately there are. I'll remind you of the Belovar Four High School. In '99, it entered the state budget. Of course, it is an obligation to complete these facilities and they were completed early this school year, so at the beginning of this school year with an exceptional medical school that started working in the second half because of what was needed to equip the cabinet and there was a delay in the delivery of equipment. So because the contests fell, because there were different obstacles, we in the past term removed all these obstacles and this facility was completed. I'll remind you that's the amount of $95 million. Furthermore, something that also entered before 2001 that you are calling here, let's say the Sports High School in the City of Zagreb. In 99, it entered the state budget, until today there were no preconditions for starting construction. So we need to secure a place to work, so we need the city, in this case and college, to agree, to sign some kind of agreement, and that's then the basis to start with. We're ready for it, but we need to do all those necessary advances, which we can't influence. So I have to remind you of these two cases of how it actually happened and why some objects aren't finished. Certainly not because at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports they are not willing to do, but previous actions should be done by someone else. Next, you say the state doesn't want to build. I will remind you in the EIB2 loan you're talking about, so the European Investment Bank over a hundred buildings, the truth not through this ministry, but through the Ministry of Regional Development, will build facilities. I have to remind you that the calls for proposals for project documentation, somewhere still went, could have been... Likewise, when it comes to the World Bank loan, the same facilities have been selected and are moving with the call for tenders either for project documentation or they have gone somewhere else. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, the state will build on and on, and it has not left the local self-government, let local self-government build itself. One part will only be built by local self-government from decentralised funds. And when it comes to the participation of the state in costs, I will remind you that local self-government, i.e. regional capital building, investment maintenance, material costs and transportation of primary school students and the transportation of secondary school workers and this part of which applies to dormitories, which are only secondary schools, not primary schools, I think someone in the debate has mixed this up. Otherwise, most of the funds, over 85%, are given by the state. All this stuff that I've listed on local self-government through decentralised funds, and you know it's being accommodated from income tax. True, rates are different for primary and secondary schools, but everything that may be missing comes from the Equivalence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14123	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14124	There are several incorrect allegations. I'll just fix two. First of all, schools in Bjelovar are not finished because in this budget for this year you have another 7 million. So either it says wrong in the budget or you know wrong. And otherwise, in 2001, it entered the budget in '99 and the ministry is directly responsible for the investment because the Ministry of Education was an investor for building 4 secondary schools in Bjelovar and it really is a question of why it takes 8 years to build a secondary school in one city, and so was Bjelovar. And as for whether the state is going to do something or not, I don't know. I object to political discretion, this law says it won't. Here you could write in Article 142 that you would be doing so from individual loans. It clearly states here that only schools entered the budget by 1 July 2001 and schools in languages and letters of national minorities will be built. That's what this law says. What the state is going to do, I really don't know. But you obviously wrote the law that you're refuting some amendments, and you're having political discretion where you're going to build schools, and you know where those schools are going to be built, and then you're going to be built like this for 7.8 years because in the town of Koprivnica, we built high school in a year. Unfortunately, without the help of the ministry...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14126	And unfortunately, our school didn't even get a 50% hall... [[The speaker is away from the microphone, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will look back on only one part of this law regarding expert associates. Namely, Article 100(4) states: "Students in the school institution are educators, psychologist, librarian, expert in education-rehabilitation profile." Social workers have been expelled, which is unacceptable because real needs for social workers in the system are not respected. I discussed the importance of the role of social worker in school more extensively when teaching standards were on the agenda, so I will now look back on just a few important facts. Breeding and education are, although not for all children, a source of real difficulties. Adjusting new school conditions, unlike those in the family, has unquestionable meaning for all students and does not take place in the same way and in the same degree. It is not rare that the new conditions and requirements of the school are opposed to the existing system of relations and values in relation to the family. The increasing and newer learning requirements, along with the increasingly objective evaluation of knowledge in part of students, create a series of problems affecting changing images about themselves, about their own value. If, due to the permanent requirements that some students experience and as a forceful association, some other unfavourable environment conditions, such as neglect and child abuse, pedagogical failures at school, this can negatively affect the status of students in the school environment and lead to different forms of reactive and spontaneous behavior with learning difficulties. In most of the students of difficulty at school, learning, behavior, and progress at all, the most frequently result from unfavourable family circumstances. Social work in the education system is one of the components of professional work primarily aimed at prevention, as it acts to prevent the creation of specific social needs of children. The implementation of professional social work shall monitor, analyse and study objective living conditions in and outside the student family, at school, leisure and elsewhere, and propose and take concrete measures and activities. The school is interested in detecting causal factors that act negatively on student development and success, to solve opportunities around students, to create optimal conditions for their development, as this ensures positive effects in the realization of the primary function of the school. Social work aimed at changing unfavourable living conditions and applying other complementary procedures eliminates the social causes of school failure and thus improves the educational and educational function of the school. Disposing of social workers from the education system will be an even more neglected preventive action, which is most important in working with children and young people. It is quite unrealistic to expect social care centres to be able to implement social work tasks at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14129	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14130	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. First of all, I join all those colleagues who have indicated that this law has a further trend in centralisation of money and powers, and it decentralises responsibilities and obligations. However, in addition to what is said, I will point only to Article 142 of this bill at points 6 and 7 which seem completely illogical and unclear to me. In this article, paragraph 6 provides for the provision of funding from the state budget for co-financing of schools which are the founder of a natural or other legal person, and in line with the criteria laid down by the minister and based on the results of the evaluation. So it's about private schools. At the same time, you have in point 7. where you are expected to co-finance schools that implement alternative education programmes of 80% of the amount needed to achieve school education work from the state budget. So, it is unclear, I think, and completely incomprehensible, which was used by the proposer to decide to create such a difference between schools, between private schools and schools conducted by alternative programmes. I see no reason to give a vague criterion for private schools, so to speak of the criteria prescribed by the minister and based on the results of the evaluation. So, we don't know at all what the criteria are, it's probably going to be by who's closer to the fire that's getting better, and I don't think in any case it can be a good influence, because, as you know, we have 30 private schools in the Republic of Croatia today, which attends over 3,000 students and those schools in the system are like any other. Thus, they are monitored regularly, i.e. inspection educational, tax, work, and others. So the difference between,... private schools and schools with... the program doesn't seem to make sense to me, and so on, because in the European Union countries, all schools that have been implemented by natural or other legal persons are equal to schools, with state schools. So, you should take care of that, so I suggest that these things be clarified and private schools put in the same position as schools with alternative programs. So, to know in advance that they are co-financed with 80% of the resources needed for the education system from the state budget, and not to leave it to some vague criteria and almost to say so to the discretionary assessment of the minister who will determine the criteria that we do not know for now and based on the results again on which results and what criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14131	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14132	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, distinguished promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. I, in the name of the club, have already said certain things in my first reading, suggestions, so I will dare say in part and disagree, but apparently in this second reading, or until the second reading, some things have changed and I will try to shorten this exhibit in an individual debate. This law regulates the activities of education and education in public institutions, i.e. primary schools, secondary schools, dormitories and other public institutions. Despite numerous changes and additions to existing laws in primary and secondary education in implementation, certain irregularities have been shown to have an impact on the functioning of the primary and secondary education systems. Therefore, the need to adopt new solutions on the approximation of the Croatian system of education and education with the relevant systems of the Member States of the European Union, as well as to coordinate the activities of primary and secondary education, as part of a single system of education and education that will meet the new requirements of contemporary primary and secondary education and education. Furthermore, existing laws do not regulate the planning of a network of school institutions and programmes in order to ensure the availability and rationality of the educational process, and this law prescribes that networks of school institutions must meet the accessibility requirements, and as regards the appropriate distance from the place of residence, traffic connections or accommodation in the dormitories, i.e. rationality regarding the optimal usability of existing school facilities. This is all achieved in a way that the networks for their area are proposed by the founders, and they are obliged before the establishment of a school institution, as well as before making a decision on the status change to obtain a preliminary positive opinion of the ministry on the eligibility of the establishment of a school institution, taking into account programme justification, requirements, availability, rationality and other relevant indicators of eligibility of the establishment of a school institution on a particular field. Such a solution established at all levels the planning of a network of school institutions in accordance with accessibility and rationality requirements. As regards the system of external evaluation and self-valuation, so far it has been regulated exclusively by the Law on secondary education, and it needs to be established for the activity of primary education in order to monitor the quality of the educational system and to coordinate the activities of primary and secondary education as part of a single system of education. This law does so and stipulates that external evaluation is carried out by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, and that schools are obliged to use the results of national exams and all other indicators of success of educational work for analysis and self-evaluation. As far as State's graduation is concerned, it is regulated by this law, i.e. Article 82, which is mandatory for students in high school programmes, while students in vocational and artistic education programmes that last at least 4 years end in secondary education through the production and defence of final work in the organisation and implementation of the school. However, these students are also allowed to pass their graduation by this law. What we discussed in our first reading was the school committees, i.e. Article 120, now 119, by increasing that same number from seven to nine, which we are pleased with, but what we have addressed through the amendment is the question of those parts, i.e. members of the school board, related to the minimum degree of education or 180 ECDS points, which we believe the promoter had any intention, relating to the structure of the school boards themselves. But also without doubting these good intentions, knowing only the situation on the ground, really means what is around us, the development of the county, the possibility of obtaining members of the school boards of opinion, we are going to need to correct that article, that is, paragraph 3 and put in it the word "rule", hoping that there will still be as many high-quality members of the school board as possible, but considering that the school boards simply have to function and be more resilient. One of these European solutions also applies to school directors who, according to this law, will take five years, instead of as 4 and will not be limited. The directors will have greater authority and greater responsibility. Also, upon termination of the principal's duties, the teacher will be able to return to the workplace, which we said was extremely important, given the safety of the director, or teachers who become directors. Since a national programme of measures has been adopted to introduce compulsory secondary education, secondary school students need to be provided with free cross-border transport, and to provide financing of accommodation and nutrition costs in their dormitories, in order to ensure that their implementation is possible. It is made possible by funding from the state budget, and this law prescribes the same thing. The introduction of a licensing system will certainly improve the quality of the educational system. The right licence for the work of teachers, teachers and professional associates shall be deemed to be a document on the professional examination passed. Teachers and teachers and professional associates shall have the right and the duty of a licence to perform every 5 years, and the licensing procedure shall be carried out by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. The very goal of licensing is to keep teachers, teachers and professional associates up to date in order to carry out their work in an adequate way, and thus to separate educational systems, students with such knowledge and skills that will meet the requirements of the modern education system. It is important to note that the final bill adopted most of the remarks made by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, representatives in the debates of both the ruling and the opposition parties involved in the debates. As the proposals of the Education, Science and Culture Committee were adopted, a new pedagogical measure was added, educational and educational treatment, extension of the professional procedure in line with the proposal of the Ombudsman for children, which would consist of the increased work of experts of various profiles with students, and the possibility of involving students in workshops of non-violent conflict resolution, socially appropriate behaviour or sports activities to raise levels of preventive and educational activities of schools with the aim of preventing unacceptable student behaviour and the adoption of a number of advocates' remarks all with the aim of achieving a better quality system of education and education. The law is drawn up according to certain examples in several European countries, including Ireland and Finland, and many of the solutions that have proved good in the practices of these countries are taking place. However, what is crucial for both teachers, teachers and professional partners of the education system and for students as well as for society as a whole is to comply with the requirements of the modern education system and on the basis of the achievement of this objective are certainly the introduction of state graduation, licensing, external evaluation and self-evaluation, the planning of a network of school institutions in accordance with the requirements, availability and rationality, and the coordination of the activities of primary and secondary education and education as part of a single education system. So much for me, Mr. Vice President. I hope that this amendment we have proposed will be adopted as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14133	Thank you. Replica Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14134	Here, fellow Klemenic, you rightly pointed out some good solutions regarding the director but I must say that we made such remarks out of opposition when the law was in 2005. Unfortunately, that's not appreciated at the time. However, Article 127 hides another major danger. So, after seven years, we reintroduce that the minister must give prior consent to the appointment of the school principal. Now the question arises, if the Office of State Administration has two representatives on the school boards, which are representatives of the government, the Government, the State Government and if the Director is appointed on the basis of a competition opened by the school board, and if there are very well-known conditions for who to report to the competition, then what will the Minister decide whether that man can be the director or not to give consent to the Director. Well, I guess the school board is competent enough and well-produced enough to appoint a director based on a public tender. But unfortunately, there is also a reintroduction of centralised or centralised decision-making and political similarity because it is wanted to be someone again, that one individual instead of the school board makes a decision. For example, it would be logical for me to seek the consent of the founders to appoint a director rather than a minister because the director must comply with the laws and must be elected in accordance with this law, so with these conditions. And when he's so chosen or proposed by the school board, then the individual makes the decision. It seems to me that our mouths have never been more full of decentralisation and the laws are full of centralised.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14135	National Minority Representatives' Club, five-minute debate, Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. He's gone. The club loses its word. SDSS representative club Mr. Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his word. SDP representative club Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14136	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary. We had another good discussion that showed that in fact about this law which is a couple of excellance examples of a law that must have an agreement actually not have consent, there is not a single change in school that can happen within one term of this or that government in these two or three years. The school cycle lasts at least eight or twelve years or so. I want to warn you of one fact. Nearly 60 amendments have been submitted to this law. We have nineteen amendments to the parent committee, nine amendments to the Legislative Committee, almost forty amendments to individual representatives. We would really like to agree on this topic because we think that the issue is indeed national interest, but the fact is that regardless of the amendments adopted, the law will not have sufficient consistency to be implemented in primary and secondary schools. When I talked to a colleague who works as a teacher at school about the law a while ago, then she said that you in politics keep making some laws, some new regulations, and we always do the same. And I would like to warn that, in fact, the idea and what should be advocating this home and what should be a national project of the utmost importance to introduce changes to the education system. Such laws, which have been subject to many amendments, will make no provision for us to bring about the changes that we need in school. We therefore appeal that not only should this law follow its implementation. We heard at one of the committee discussions one of the secretary of state said we'd see in two, three years how the law applies, so we'll change it. We in the SDP want to warn that such approaches to change in education are extremely dangerous because we are actually doing experiments on generations of children. By the time the ministry realizes that two or three years something doesn't work, they just go through tens of thousands of children through the education system, and we don't think we can afford that kind of thing. In the end, we would like the future of the Ministry of Education to come to the proposals of the law at the debate in the Parliament, which not only agree with the social partners but also those who have at least the minimum level of expertise not to cause such discussions in the Croatian Assembly where what should actually be clear, understandable to all, which is professionally justified in fact we should discuss. And that is another reason, especially after this debate has been held that we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14137	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14138	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Let me briefly refer to a few of these last discussions to explain some things, and this applies primarily to schools with the right of the public, which are therefore founders of legal and physical persons. So far, support for these schools from the state budget has been at a high level in secondary school of 1,000 kuna, in primary school it is differently set so there are amounts that are slightly larger or slightly smaller. Mostly not far from this number. We are now proposing a better solution where we open up the possibility that schools that are founders of legal and physical persons can have greater support, can say even greater depending on the results of external evaluation. So we have no suggestion to go linearly and equally towards everyone than to open up the possibility of being more. These thousand and 450 kunas I mentioned are guaranteed and below are not going, but there is an opportunity to be more and we believe that this approach is fair. Let us also consult with representatives as you say private schools. They are satisfied with such a solution. Of course, the most satisfying would be the solution to be treated entirely as, like, public schools. But this could be one of the ways to the final solution. When it comes to schools that have alternative programs here we have indeed made a step in the spirit of European experiences and we have said that it is a very high percentage. We have three schools like that. One is in Rijeka and two are in Zagreb. We'll see if there'll be more of them in the future. I would like to say to the honourable representative that we have really gone to better solutions here, to better quality solutions, and we are sure that this school will also be satisfied. Furthermore, the issue of the minister's consent is also open here when it comes to the appointment of the director. So about previous consent. I have to remind myself in some detail, I won't say in the crucial things, but in some details really, really, as it is now in the last debates and said practice shows how good or less good some solutions are. So I'll remind you specifically when it comes to this. We have had a situation like this, and some of you who are well-accompanied in education are very familiar with the situation that one of the directors was resolved, resolved, and the director is resolved by the founding of an educational inspector if he violates the law. The resolved director, therefore, was appointed by the minister by the school board as acting director until a new competition was opened. So despite being resolved for non-compliance with the law, the same school board appointed him as acting director, and when he conducted the tender procedure, he was re-elected as director in the new term despite being warned about what was going on at school. So that we would have such situations to say so under control and prevent such extreme situations we went for these reasons with this solution. Believe us, we have also consulted the directoral associations that know well what is going on in schools and that they agree with such a solution even though it is of course related to them. So we are based on the findings of educational inspectors who go to our schools, we have records of how the school works, where there are certain shortcomings where certain shortcomings are required to remove certain shortcomings and even solutions are issued somewhere to remove some irregularities. So if you're wondering what we can say about something at school that's okay and there's no reservation, and where it's just going to be the deadline that's supposed to be, and it's supposed to be that the agreement of the day in such a situation won't have to go away from the ministry. But then this is actually a fuse for those extreme situations where you could repeat this case I mentioned. I want to thank you all and for participating in the debate. I would like to thank all of you who have participated in the work of the Assembly Committees on which you have formed certain amendments that will significantly improve the text and, finally, I would like to thank all of you who have individually submitted certain amendments which can also improve the text of this law that we ultimately have a good law on basic and secondary education as a single law unlike the present times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14139	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14140	Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that this is just for extreme situations as far as the minister's consent is concerned. This is for all the situations. So every director will have to go to the secretary's consent after the public tender is held. So it's on all consent. And I'm surprised the minister doesn't trust the two representatives he's going to appoint through the Office of State Administration to the school board. How will the minister read the papers, see if it's all right if two men appointed by the office, the head of the Office of the State Administration won't and will break the law. That's really fascinating. Minister Shuker will be sitting... to sign off on borrowings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Minister Primorac will only give consent to the appointment of the director. I thought the ministers still had a little more responsible state affairs and that they would do it and that there was someone else who would do other jobs. But here it goes so that everything is controlled again, everything is centralized, and responsibility is transferred to local self-government. I'm sorry, Minister of Education, who's gonna have to sign these all-powerful consents.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14141	Second correction by Ms. Mirjana Feric-Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The improvement spoken of is absolutely questionable in this law. Basically, if the minister has the right to have 36 regulations that are not, of which nothing has entered this law or 46 of you have said 36, then something in this law is missing significantly in the implementation of what the law must contain. First. Secondly, this law will not improve this situation because we do not recognise and the realities are that we need professional associates and psychologists and educators who are very limited in that range in which they are admitted to school. That's the first one. And secondly, what we do today, and how we limit education today, so our society will be tomorrow, and in that sense this is not a law that's a step forward, but something that's sanctioned, something that's unspeakable, but it lacks the real conviction that it's the real will to be where things are very complex and to fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14143	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one notice. The chairman of the Tourism Committee, Mr. Representative Marin Brkaric, scheduled the 7th session of the Tourism Committee today at 13.00 in the hall "Ante Starčević" with agenda - Final Proposal for a Law on Trade. During today's day, we would try to discuss all the points that are on the agenda, all the European laws and other two that have been included in the agenda of the Law on Trade and the Law on Foreigners, without delay, and when we are done, it would be only tomorrow that we should discuss, or vote on the discussed laws and close the session tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14144	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 84. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment was submitted to the benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. State Secretary, Mr. Janjic. We're moving on to the manifest after the amendments. I note that we have more votes, even two-thirds of the majority, so it warns MPs that they are taking care of it so that they do not lose the quorum to decide. We are moving to the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14145	The first amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14146	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14147	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14148	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14149	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14150	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. Committee on Education, Science and Culture Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14151	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14152	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4, Gvosden representatives Srecko Fleg and representatives of Marija Lugarić in the article... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14153	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14154	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5, representative of Mr. Iron Srecko Fleg and representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14155	In part, it is accepted, if the applicant accepts the modified form in paragraph 2.(1), that instead of "developing awareness of nationality, preservation of historical and cultural heritage, national identity", the text reads: "develop awareness for students of the need to preserve and promote national identity and protect and improve spiritual and material cultural heritage".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14156	Thank you. Please make your point. Mr. Flego, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14157	That's something different from that, so it's quite different from what we're proposing, but that article has two sections, so paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. If we are now making a statement only on item one, it is unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14158	So we're voting on that part that's unacceptable to you. Who's for that part of the amendment please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14159	So that's paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14160	Let's vote on who's in favour of that part of the amendment. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. In other words, you agree, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14161	So we have another item 2 of the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14162	For the purposes of paragraph 2, the following
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14163	Article 2 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14164	Article 2 is not accepted. I therefore put to the vote the amendments of Mr Flega and Marija Lugarić to Article 4. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14165	Can I explain it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14166	You can explain, but you've already called.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14167	Well, I think I'm reporting to explain it. It is, in fact, Article 4(2). We felt that according to the political consensus and secondary education so far until the first occupation or to the state's graduation should become mandatory. And we are in favour of gathering enough political determination to finally and legally regulate what we all agreed on and agreed on. Please vote on that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14168	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of Ms Maria Lugaric in Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14169	It's unacceptable. The application of curriculum planning and programming assumes the training of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors for this work. It is therefore necessary to maintain the curriculum and programme for the primary school or educational plans and programmes in secondary schools until the update of the national curricula as a single document. We are based on the real state of education in Croatian school. The transitional period is not easy to predict for too many reasons, among other things in initial education and training of teachers, teachers and professional associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14170	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14171	To go from the end. Mr. Secretary of State, the transitional period is very predictable. In the transitional provisions, it is simply necessary to put what I propose in a later article an amendment to apply existing curricula and curricula until the adoption of the national curricula. However, what is important here is the fact that programming based on the theory of curricula and the practice of curricula and the programme is completely contradictory and in this final proposal of the law, not accepting this and many other amendments that do not actually relate to it are defined for one of these two concepts, otherwise we will get again one specific Croatian model that is inconclusive, under two professionally unfounded and under three is simply bringing new confusion into the system of education. Since you do not accept both modern theory and what is happening in the modern practice of developed education systems and do not opt for it, I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14172	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7, Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14173	Amendment 7 of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is accepted, with one add that, in the superscription, it refers to Article 9 to include what is proposed in the article itself. We hope it's acceptable, so it's about the head and the subtitle.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14174	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14175	On behalf of the board, this formulation has been accepted. 8, Legislative Committee, Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14176	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14177	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9th Amendment of Representatives of the Iron Flag and Mary Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14178	9 amendments are not accepted. The interpretation shall be as for Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14179	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14180	Since Mr. Secretary of State is proposing solutions that do not exist in any profession, solutions that are not modern I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14181	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10, amendment of the same legislators and representatives to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14182	10 amendments are also not accepted. The interpretation shall be as for Amendments 6 and 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14183	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14184	Mr. Secretary of State, since you have opted for non-modern solutions and solutions that have no basis in the profession, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14185	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11, amendment of the same MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14186	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14187	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14188	Since you do not accept modern solutions and solutions based on the profession, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14189	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I 12, amendment of the same representative and representative to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14190	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for amendments 6, 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14191	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14192	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm asking you for an explanation that this applies to registration areas, this is not the same. I think we're a little confused, that's all. You.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14193	Do you or do you not have an explanation, but you'd better have one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14194	I would like to hear the State Secretary’s argument why he refuses the amendment to Article 16 to delete Article 16, so as to delete an article that sets out registration areas. That's not what we heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14195	Excuse me, the amendment of 12 of the same representatives is rejected because the definition of the enrolment area as an integral part of a network of school institutions is necessary for the purpose of the rational layout of pupils and for ensuring optimal conditions of education and education. The solution so far, which includes registration areas, meant that if someone changed the registration area to achieve it but would lose the right to compensation for transport costs if it was more than 3 kilometers from class 1 to 4 and more than 5 kilometers from 5 to 8th grade, respectively. We have kept such a solution in this law, and we believe that if we were to liberalize it to be extremely irrational.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14196	Thank you. Mrs. Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14197	Mr. Secretary of State, between rationality and parental freedom to choose the school that is best for his child, I am still committed to the right of parents to choose the school best for their child. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14198	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13, the amendment of the same MPs Mrs Lugaric and Mr Fleg.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14199	And it refers to the same matter. The explanation is the same as for 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14200	Thank you. Mrs. Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14201	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14202	You're withdrawing the amendment? Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 14, amendment of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14203	We do not accept the 14 amendments with the same reason that it also refers to an entry area which includes erasure of Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14204	We're withdrawing for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14205	This amendment has been withdrawn. 15, Amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandić to Article 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14206	15 amendments by MP Ivanka Roksandic are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14207	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 16, Professor Iron Fleg and Maria Lugarić's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14208	16 amendments are not accepted. The explanation is the same as for articles 6, 9, 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14209	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14210	Mr. Secretary of State, since you, as Government and Ministry, have opted for a modern and unprofessional solution, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14211	Thank you. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17, Legislative Committee on Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14212	17 amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14213	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 18, representatives of the Iron Flag and Mary Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14214	18 amendments are not accepted. The interpretation shall be as for amendments 6, 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14215	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14216	My explanation is the same as those same amendments. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14217	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14218	The 19th Amendment of the Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14219	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 20 representatives of Mr. Flege and Maria Lugarić on Article 28?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14220	Amendment 20 is not accepted. The explanation is like six, nine, ten, etc. The annual plan and program of work of the school institution is needed he is brought by September 30th of the current school year and contains everything the school will do during the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14221	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14222	Now I have an explanation for something a little different. In fact, according to this amendment, there are several parts. According to your proposal, what is taught in school, so the content that teachers and teachers hand over to children will now be based on three documents. The teaching plan and the programme, the national curricula, the national educational standard, and everything will have to be based on the state pedagogical standard, and I think it's absolutely too much, with at least three of those four documents talking about absolutely the same and simply not the same. Secondly, because of the last part of your argument, we really do not see who is the excuse for the fact that by September 15th school boards, or principals must bring the school curricula, and by September 30th the school's annual plan and the school's work programme, because it's simply the exact same documents. You not only do you not accept what the profession has established, but you also build up a school administration as if people who work in schools simply need more of the children's administration to facilitate learning the content they need for life. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14223	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14224	Amendment 21 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14225	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 22. Legislative Committee Article 31?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14226	Amendment 22 is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14227	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 23rd Amendment by Mr. Sreka Flege and Maria Lugaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14228	Amendment 23 is not accepted. The interpretation shall be as for amendments 6, 9, 10, 11, and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14229	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14230	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to immediately do the 23rd and 24th and 25th because it's essentially the same matter. We have already realized here that there is an insurmountable mechanism for the ministry to accept modern and professional solutions. So I withdraw all three amendments, so on the amendment under regular number 23, 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14231	You're pulling back?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14233	Thank you. This amendment 23, 24, and 25 have been withdrawn. 26th Amendment of Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić to article...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14234	The 26th Amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14235	This amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the proposal. 27. Representatives Marija Lugarić on Article 49?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14236	The 27th amendment by the representative, Marija Lugaric, is not accepted. We consider that a provision...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14237	27?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14238	27?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14239	Yeah. On Article 49?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14240	That's right. It's unacceptable. We believe that the provision of Article 49(1), which provides for educational work to be carried out in one shift if it is permitted by spatial, human and other working conditions, stresses the importance of carrying out educational work in one shift, and that it is unnecessary to state that educational work can be carried out in a maximum of three shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14241	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14242	Mr. Secretary of State, it is necessary to consider that there are schools in Croatia where classes are conducted in four shifts. Each second or third sentence of Minister Primorac is that our strategic project is to be done in one shift. In law, you now define the opposite. The law defines the opposite of what Minister Primorac says almost daily. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14243	Who is for this amendment to Article 49? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28. Legislative Committee on Article 49?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14244	The amendment shall be adopted on 28th.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14245	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 29th Representative Marija Lugarić, Article 56.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14246	The 29th amendment by the representative, Marija Lugaric, is not accepted. The provisions of Article 56 make clear which textbooks are used in the school institution, which are those approved by the Ministry under special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14247	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14248	Mr. Secretary of State your ministry has approved textbooks for the teaching of physical health culture in the first grade of primary school. Your ministry approved textbooks for the teaching of art culture in the second grade of primary school and in the first and fourth. I think it is necessary in the law to define that if teachers don't want to do so at all, they don't have to use the textbook, because you've really approved some textbooks for which there are every excuse that they shouldn't be used at all. What if the teacher, although the ministry prescribed a textbook in physical and health culture for the first grade of primary school, did not want to use it, and it is completely rational not to use it. Which in that case, the inspection will punish him not to use it and you've approved it. I don't think the substantial amendment really changes anything but explains and facilitates the situation for teachers at school. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14249	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 30. of the same representative of Ms. Marija Lugarić on Article 59?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14250	The 30th Amendment of Representative Marija Lugaric is not accepted. In fact, it is used to express the goals of education and education in the broadest and most general sense, and their operationalisation will follow in the documents that exist in these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14251	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14252	Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if you can tell me where the targets are then. In national curricula or plan and program? That's the problem, which is you have two documents on the same thing, and it can only be one. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14253	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31st Amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandić to Article 65?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14254	The 31st amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14255	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14256	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14257	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thirty-two. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 67?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14258	The 32nd Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14259	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 33rd of the same Committee on Article 67?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14260	We accept the 33rd amendment of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14261	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 34. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on Article 72?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14262	The 34th Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is not accepted. Namely, the final testimony as a document serves as a document for the introduction of evaluations from classrooms prescribed by the official document, the curriculum and the programme. Model C, implies additional items that are actually realized but do not enter the official certificate as assessments that would be counted in general success. As a supplemental programme that allows for further educational content to be mastered because of the respect of another culture, it is verified in the testimony as a group of academic subjects. Therefore, officially recorded and recognized, but without evaluation. The introduction of the evaluations from the supplementary case into the certificate shall result in an inequality of the testimony and inequality of the overall success in the sum of the assessments coming out of the mandatory primary education and education programme. And otherwise, a school at the request of a student or a parent can issue such a document if necessary, and something that would be similar to a diploma... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14263	Thank you. On behalf of the board? There isn't. I am voting on this proposal for an amendment that the Government accepts. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 76?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14264	We accept the 35th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14265	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 36. The HDZ counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14266	We also accept the 36th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14267	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 37. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Article 82?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14268	We also accept the 37th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14269	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 38. Legislative Committee on Article 82?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14270	We also accept the 38th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14271	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 39th Representative Marija Lugarić on Article 89?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14272	We don't accept the 39th amendment. The Education and Education Agency is one of the factors in the educational and educational infrastructure that seriousises the objectives of education policy, which is also the role of other agencies, as well as the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education and is not in any conflict with the role of the Council for the National Curricula as an advisory body appointed by the Minister. The role of the advisory body of the executive factors is not confused but are complementary and their role is quite clear. We believe that there is a Council on National Curricula dealing with issues of national curricula development and qualitative improvement of educational and educational activities at primary and secondary school level in terms of problematization and counselling. The work of the National Curriculum Council is not contrary to Article 4. Law on the Agency for Education and Education which participates in the development, development and implementation of national curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14273	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14274	Mr. Secretary of State, you've set up and we've established a specialized agency that needs to do professional and advisory work with the intention of getting professional and advisory jobs kicked out of the ministry that must then be done by these political and administrative affairs. And then you are now introducing a special council of ministers who are then specifically counseled by the minister even though he established a special law special institution that has just that and does so. Then let's cancel the agency if we don't trust the agency, if you need any more special councils to advise the minister. Therefore, the minister is obviously not enough to have a large public relations and marketing service where there are very many people, but despite the fact that there are agencies that need to deal with advisory work on the same content, he must set up special advisory bodies. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14275	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 40th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 91?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14276	We accept the 40th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14277	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 41. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 94?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14278	We accept the 41st amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14279	Thank you. 42. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 95?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14280	The 42nd amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14281	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 43rd Amendment of Representative Marija Lugarić to Article 100?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14282	We don't accept the 43rd amendment. We believe that it is enough to list educational-rehabilitation profile experts and in this we have also consulted with experts and do not need to specifically specify them. The National Pedagogical Standard sets out education-rehabilitation profile experts, including the social educator and this is methodologically absolutely correct. As it is correct that in the National Pedagogical Standard and health and professional associate, but in terms of the specific needs of the school, i.e. the so-called Colloquial term. special schools, but not in terms of an expert associate as an educational and educational worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14283	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14284	Mr Secretary of State, I accept this first section of the social pedagogogogogy and in that part I am withdrawing the amendment, but this part about health workers. This Regulation shall enter The teaching standard for primary education was said to have been written by healthcare professionals as well as professional associates in educational and educational institutions, i.e. primary schools. You've legally rewritten that formulation from the state pedagogical standard, except you've left out those healthcare workers. So, then, in that case, the State Pedagogue Standard will not be in line with the law, which once again warns us about the wrong methodology of the adoption of these documents because it was simply supposed to be the law, and then the pedagogical standard. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14285	Thank you. We're voting on that part of the amendment that hasn't been withdrawn. Who's in? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 44th Amendment of Representative Marija Lugarić, Article 104.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14286	We can't accept the 44th amendment of the representative, Maria Lugaric. In fact, the teacher's norm remains as old as it was in the system for several reasons. First, because a change of norm will be possible only through a clear analysis of jobs and rescheduling jobs that the teacher has to do and jobs that he has to do, and new norms are possible after the adoption of this law because the new law assumes new jobs, I will remind these are also queens, these are textbooks, it is the openness of school during holidays to the state pedagogical standard, etc. Secondly, because the school curricula is being brought, and it also brings new opportunities for educational and educational work for which teachers need to be trained. Third, the State Pedagogue Standard brings changes due to new norms, which will also affect the detailed analysis of the employability of teachers, teachers and professional associates. Fourthly, because the primary school staff norm will be adopted, but with social partners as it seems, because it is established in the dramatic collective agreement that this law also speaks in its article in paragraph 8. Fifthly, the article was fully adopted in cooperation with the social partners on the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14287	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14288	Mr. Secretary of State. So, what's this about? You have determined by the bill that the norm for teachers in secondary schools is 20 to 22 hours of direct education work. You also propose, by law, that the norm of direct educational work in primary schools be 22 to 24 hours. So two hours more than what it's for teachers in high school. I know that's how it's been so far, but it's been bad and it needs to be changed because there's not a single valid excuse. A team more to the argument that you have spoken, new jobs and similar related to the e-matrix, etc. that teachers in elementary schools, i.e. teachers in primary schools must work 2 hours more in class than teachers in secondary schools have to do. The more work in elementary school in this regard methodical, didactic preparation for teaching is much more demanding for work in primary school than in high school. I hope that, I mean, I'm almost sure your social partners won't mind, absolutely, changing a collective contract to reduce their norms. And to that part of your argument that says you haven't done a job analysis yet, and so on, I wonder how you even proposed the law. That means that the law you proposed, that you didn't actually know what to do and how to do it? So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14289	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 105?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14290	We accept the 45th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14291	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 46th Amendment of Ms. Maria Lugaric and Mr. Fleg.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14292	The 46th Amendment of Representatives Marija Lugaric and Iron Flege cannot be accepted and we have just accepted item 6 in the previous amendment as it has been formulated. In addition to the person who has completed a graduate university study of the relevant type, the teacher of the classroom can perform the relevant type and the person who has completed a pre-graduate university study or a professional study where at least 180 ECTS points are obtained and has the necessary pedagogical competences, and only if the person who completed the graduate university study of the relevant type does not report to the invitation to tender. We believe that such a solution ensures professional teaching in elementary school and that it does not need to be changed. And we're witnesses, I'll remind you that we have an unprofessional teaching mostly from mathematics, from foreign language, physics and depending on the region by, from some other subjects.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14293	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14294	Mr. Secretary of State that that is how you would then write an amendment to delete an article, item 14 of the same article that allows the employment of a person who not only does not have a proper level of calling but also, who does not have a proper type of calling and exactly item 14 allows you to teach mathematics as a music teacher and vice versa, and you do not change that. What you are changing and what has been accepted as an amendment that reminds you has not passed as a proposal on the home Committee on Education and Education is, in fact, the fact that you allow people who do not have a graduate study so that the former high-level professional is ready to work at school. In 2001, we made it impossible for people who didn't have a high level of expertise to work at school. You now have classes from 1st to 4th grade teachers’ jobs under this law, so people who have completed their degree studies can work for you, no less. Subject teaching can be done under certain conditions by people who have a higher school level with this pedagogical psychological education and then in high schools or high schools again have to be attended by people who have a graduate degree. I think we're very involved here. I don't think we can push first graders into class just because we don't know what to do with them, and if you really wanted to avoid unprofessional teaching then you should have deleted paragraph 14. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14295	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 47th Amendment of the same MPs Mrs Lugaric and Mr Flege to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14296	The 47th Amendment cannot be accepted. Since this is the way in which the competition is announced in accordance with the provisions of the basic collective agreement in agreement with the social partners, we have not been able to find a different solution and therefore we remain with this solution that stands here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14297	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14298	Mr. Secretary of State, this amendment is actually a proposal from the Association of High School Directors. They warned us that on job ads, every school a year, that schools spent between 25 million and 40 million kunas. We don't spend that much money a year in school equipment education. Therefore, our proposal is to publish a tender for a working relationship on the website of the Ministry of Employment School. The Association of High School Directors said that more, 4 times more applications come through the Employment Service than ads in daily newspapers, and the school would save a significant amount of funds that can then be used for example in school equipment and the like. It's really irrational to throw money at newspaper ads when we don't need it. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14299	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture shall, in accordance with Article 110.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14300	The 48th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is accepted but I would only ask for a change in one word since we use the expression of pedagogical competence everywhere and here is the pedagogical skills that, I ask you to accept this amendment because, in the explanation of the amendment, it is actually written competences.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14301	Roger that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14302	Thank you. It was accepted in the formation of the Secretary of State or Government. 49th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 110?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14303	The 49th Amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14304	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 50th Amendment of the Committee on... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14305	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14306	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 51st Amendment of Mr Flag and Ms Maria Lugarić to Article 115.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14307	The 51st Amendment cannot be accepted. We consider it necessary to enable professional training and training through programmes approved by the Ministry regardless of who developed those programmes. The provisions of Article 115 of the Law are not contrary to Article 4. The Law on the Education and Education Agency which is prescribed that it organises and implements the professional training of educators if the specific regulation is not different.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14308	Thank you. Mrs. Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14309	Mr. Secretary of State, why did we start the agency? If it is the Agency's job to carry out professional and advisory tasks for the system of education and education, then why not ask it to advise us on a training programme which, by the way, this agency must also implement. You took everything back to the Ministry. I suggest that since you have obviously demoted the Education and Education Agency that you have returned professional jobs to politics or the Ministry to thoroughly review and amend the Law of the Education and Education Agency because it is clearly no longer valid in the sense in which it was worth it when we here seem unanimously in the Croatian Parliament we have brought it here. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14310	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 52nd Amendment to the Education, Science and Culture Act on Article 115
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14311	We accept the 52nd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14312	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14313	We also accept the 53rd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14314	53, so. 54. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 54. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14315	We accept the 54th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14316	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 55th Representative of Mr. Srecko Flega and Marija Lugarić on Article 117.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14317	The 55th Amendment cannot be accepted. Article 117 provides that the licensing procedure is carried out by the National External Assessment Centre, which is not contrary to the Law on the Education and Education Agency. The Agency for Education and Education is not the only agency, so in accordance with this law, clearer powers and responsibilities of other factors will be developed for educational infrastructure, and amongsts and agencies. The terms of licensing shall be brought by the ministry, and the procedure of the institution to which this ministry has entrusted. The Agency is not an administrative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14318	Thank you. Mrs. Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14319	An interesting agency is not an administrative body, and the center is. But there's something very wrong with the whole system. In the law, you defined that passing an expert exam as the first license, right. Who's running the expert exams? The Agency for Education and Education, not the Centre for External Valuation. So the first license will be given by the Education and Education Agency, and then each of the following will be given by the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which should not be dealt with by any special law at all. If I say again, you don't trust the Education and Education Agency, the people who work there, then you re-negotiate or re-use it to serve here just so you can say there's an agency. The institution we have established unanimously here in the Croatian Parliament to deal with external evaluation activities cannot deal with teacher licensing activities, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14320	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 56th Amendment of MPs also Mr Flege and Marija Lugarić on Article 119.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14321	The 56th Amendment cannot be accepted. In fact, the number of members of the school board has been increased due to the newly proposed structure. In view of the fact that the administrations of state administrations under explicit legal powers carry out certain tasks for education by cooperating with the administrative departments of founders, they would therefore also be represented in the administrative body as well as the founders, but in a small number in order to achieve direct cooperation in that area which is particularly important for education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14322	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14323	This amendment has two parts. We first propose to reduce the number of members of the school boards. Namely, if museums, theatres, cultural institutions can be managed by administrative councils, i.e. administrative bodies with up to five members, we really do not see why school should then be managed by a body that has nine members. In part, we understand that if we understand the motivation of your second part of the argument, since you are returning to the big door to the school management policy. For the first time, the representatives of the local community and the state administration will have a majority in the school boards, and for many years we have all fought together from education, and you are again centralizing the story because, in addition to the fact that the director's re-election of the minister we interrupted in 2001, you are giving the public administration offices the opportunity to participate in the management of schools in more than parents do, even though they actually have almost nothing to do with it. School founders are units of local, or regional self-government, the Ministry of State conducts inspection administrative supervision and all others through special institutes that exist in the ministry, and we really do not see why they return politics to schools because they will be a problem warned us, many, first with these appointments, and the second influence of school management policy has proved to be more than an execution in the past three years, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14324	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 57th Amendment of Ms Maria Lugarić to Article 119
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14325	The 57th amendment is also not accepted. Since the City of Zagreb has a different constitutional position compared to other units of local and regional (regional) self-government, we are of the opinion that in order to bring together the process of proposing school board members in the Republic of Croatia, this provision does not need to be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14326	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14327	Mr. Secretary of State you are right that by special law the City of Zagreb has a special position, but in this Law on the City of Zagreb, it has been established that the City Office for Education, Culture and Sports is performing all the tasks of the Office of the State Administration, which in other counties are working on state administration offices. In view of this, this provision of this article is illegal to you, it is contrary to the structure in the Republic of Croatia, or the Law on the City of Zagreb, and we really do not understand why Mr. Palarić should appoint two members of the school board in every school in the City of Zagreb, because this is exactly what it says here in this law. What does the Office for State Administration and counterpart Palarić have to do with the management of schools in the City of Zagreb? And we have the Law on the City of Zagreb that speaks differently. This is not only tampering with the local self-government unit but also almost an unprecedented involvement of the state administration in school management, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14328	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 58th Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 119
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14329	The 58th Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities is accepted, but in a partially modified form, so that the letter of national minorities goes beyond the syntagma, so instead of "must be ensured" the text stands: "will be ensured" [[Intruder: We accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14330	Roger that. It becomes an integral part of the formulation as stated by the State Secretary, an integral part of the proposal. 59th Amendment of the National Minority Representatives Club to Article 119
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14331	It has already been accepted by the previous amendment, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14332	So he's becoming immaterial, and he's been accepted by the previous amendment. Thank you. 60. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14333	As before, it was accepted by the 58th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14334	So he was withdrawn because he was accepted in the previous one. Thank you very much. 61. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the European Parliament and the Council in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14335	The 61st amendment to Cuba by the representative of the HSS is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14336	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 62. Representatives Susana Bilić Vardić on Article 121.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14337	The 62nd amendment of the representative Susana Bilić Vardić is accepted, but in a modified form, so that Article 121(3) reads: The decision to disband the school board is taken by the office of the state administration or city office, and for schools founded by the City of Zagreb the Central Office for Management. And accordingly, in point 7 and point 10, given that it is the same matter, we suggest that this statement be evened in the same way as in the next Article 122 that Article 121(3) of this Law stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14338	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14339	She accepted a representative in a formulation read here by the secretary of state. Thank you. 63, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 125
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14340	63 amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14341	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 64, representatives of Marija Lugarić in Article 141.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14342	64 amendments are not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. private schools are provided by the founder of these institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14343	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14344	Yes, it is almost impossible for the founders of private and alternative schools, which are therefore mostly private persons, to provide funding for public needs with their means. I think there's a situation like this that we're going to declare, then the founder that he's in bankruptcy and the school is shut down, and the kids who are in that school don't have to go to school anymore. So it really needs to be solved. Secondly, which you didn't even look at in your own explanation. Your law provides that schools are financed by parents' payments for special services and school activities. I personally think it's pretty dangerous because in schools when there's no money, then schools and teachers collect money from children and parents for everything and everything. I therefore propose to just add that the fact that they collect money for the activities of those who must be defined by the school curricula with the previous consent of the Council of Parents in order to avoid in fact that individual teachers and individual schools collect money from children for what... And for what has been determined by the curriculum and the program and the school curricula and for what it isn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14345	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 65 amendments, representatives of Mr. Flag and Mrs. Maria Lugarić to the article... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14346	We can't accept the 65 amendments. Namely, this material is governed by a special law or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks, so that we have free textbooks in this school year for all primary school students and for the 1st grade of secondary schools according to the provisions of the National Programme measures for the introduction of compulsory secondary education adopted by the Croatian Parliament last year. From the next school year, free textbooks are predicted to receive second grade students until this cycle is closed. In order to obtain free textbooks and high school students, there is no need for a special legal provision, since the Constitution also opens the possibility that if there are funds in the state budget, it can be settled for certain needs, as well as for the purchase of textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14347	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14348	Mr. Secretary of State, if the procurement of textbooks by the state is for all children one of the projects you are very boasting about, why are you afraid to write in the law that this state is financing? I don't see any reason. On the other hand, the Law on textbooks in Article 4a states: "The textbooks intended for compulsory education are financed from the State budget". Since you did not want to accept the amendment that high school is also required to acquire the first qualification, or to graduate state, you actually do not have the law to obtain textbooks in high schools. And tomorrow we may have another minister come and who says I will no longer buy children's textbooks because I don't have to, because it doesn't say it in the law. And I don't understand why you're doing something you're proud of and boasting about, you don't want to write it in the law? Do you have any reservations about that, or are you going to give up another year? I really don't get it. I'm just asking that what's done be prescribed. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14349	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66 amendments by Ms. Marija Lugarić to Article 142
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14350	We cannot accept 66 amendments for the reason that funds for financing the accommodation and nutrition of students in the student homes since 2001 have been secured in decentralised functions since 1 July. So far, regional self-government units have funded 50%, and 50% have paid their parents. This proposal suggests that this is financed in a 100% amount as it seems this year for the first-class student, 50% of course from the funds of the units of the regional and regional self-government, and 50% of the transfers from the state budget, according to both the founders and the county and the City of Zagreb that pass it on to homes. So these assets are secured into so-called. The minimum financial standard established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for each year following the adoption of the budget is therefore not questionable. For those founders who cannot possibly reach that minimum financial standard, there is so-called. The balancing fund from which it is intervened so that they are all in the same position and for these reasons this entire amount is decentralised.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14351	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14352	Mr. Secretary of State, if you would accept what you said, the 67 amendments to article 143 would be exactly what you said, and in that case I would withdraw Amendment number 66. However, if you will not accept the amendment to Article 143, so Amendment 67, which explicitly says that it is financed from decentralised functions, then all of what you are saying is not true, because the law now states, so Article 143, that in the budget, units of local and regional self-government are provided with funds, inter alia, for the accommodation and nutrition of students. If that's where the decentralised supplement comes in, then that would be fine because it would be exactly what you said. So I'd like to know the fate of the next amendment because it's just a story. If not, then I would like to ask for a vote because the Parliament has also established in the national programme measures to introduce compulsory secondary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14353	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 67 amendments to the same representative, Ms. Marija Lugaric, to Article 143.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14354	Article 67 is also not accepted. In addition to this explanation that I have previously given, we hold that the formulation in Article 143(1) is quite clear. In addition, these funds have been provided so far, and of course they will be provided in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14355	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14356	Mr. Secretary of State, I read you what the law says. The budget of units of local and regional self-government provides funding for schools whose founder is the Republic of Croatia or units of local and regional self-government and for the transport of students, accommodation in homes, and is now listed further. Where does it say that this country is helping decentralised funds? It is said that it is provided in the funds of local budgets. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14357	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 68, amendment of Mr Fleg and Mrs Maria Lugarić to Article 153.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14358	68 amendments cannot be accepted. In particular, the provision of Article 153(1) is a transitional provision of a law which clearly provides that students who have enrolled in high school will conclude with the school year 2005/2006. at the end of secondary education, to place the prom unlike the students of Article 82 of this Law who are attending the national prom.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14359	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14360	Mr. Secretary of State, that's exactly what our amendment says. Well, we just want things to be clear and completely unequivocal. We're just adding that they're taking the prom, not the state's graduation, so there's no confusion. Therefore, it simply needs to be clearer. If you do not accept that things are clearer and that they remain unclear, then I ask the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14361	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 69, amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 155
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14362	69 amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14363	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 70, amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 156
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14364	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14365	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 71, amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 157
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14366	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14367	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 72, amendment of representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14368	72 amendments are not accepted since the health care professional is not listed by the final draft law as an expert associate in the school institution and therefore it is necessary to protect the transitional provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14369	Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14370	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14371	He's withdrawing the amendment. Thank you. 73, amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14372	We accept 73 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14373	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 74, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14374	We accept the 74 amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14375	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 75, representatives of Mr Fleg and Mrs Maria Lugarić on Article 166.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14376	We can't accept 75 amendments. I have already given an explanation on this subject in Amendments 6, 9, 10, 11 and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14377	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14378	Mr. Secretary of State, since you have not accepted through the law the adoption of that modern model, which is based on the profession, you have already opted for a completely confusing model that does not exist anywhere but will be Croatia specific where we will again be subject to expert gatherings as well as to HNOS. I withdraw this amendment because it really does not make any sense without accepting those previous ones, but we actually wanted to show you that if you want to do something modern through the law that you can do so, and also ensure implementation through transitional provisions. So I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14379	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 76, amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 167
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14380	76 amendments to the Legislative Committee are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14381	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the final draft law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 38 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14382	We are now going to the next point - The final draft law on the capital market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 131 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget. Proposer representative State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, in front of you on the table is a fairly comprehensive Capital Market Act which will completely replace the current and applicable Securities Market Act of 2002 and 2006 and thus regulate in a significantly different way the business of persons authorised to conduct financial instruments, the conditions for organised trading in financial instruments, the process of issuing securities to the public offering, the protection of investors and holders of securities rights, the immaterialised securities, and the establishment and authorisation of the central clinical and depositary society of the current Central Depositary Agency, the stock exchange. This law will also introduce new concepts and in the bulk of the regulation in a different way of the rights and obligations of the participants in the capital market. What I'd like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, is, in short, just to present the basic features, and we can say so in the paper of this law. Therefore, a number of provisions of the law are in a function of better protecting clients and investment firms and preserving market integrity through the harmonisation of requirements that investment firms and regulated markets must meet when entering work permits as well as through rules of business behaviour. First of all, the emphasis was placed on the risk management system as well as on capital adequateness. However, there is also a detailed provision for the termination of labour, i.e. leaving the market. An investor protection system is introduced, the basic feature of which is the establishment of the so-called so-called ‘investor protection system’. The Fund for the Protection of Investors in which members of that Fund will be paid cash in order to ensure the protection of the interests of the clients of the Fund, which the Fund member in certain cases is unable to pay or return to the client. I would only briefly refer to discussions and issues which were of respected representatives and advocates during individual committees. Therefore, this investor protection system does not entail and is not aimed at protecting against the risk of investment, i.e. the risk of investment for each potential and any private or public investor in any case. So this is one different concept after all. The members of that fund will therefore be investment firms authorised to hold funds or financial instruments of clients and credit institutions providing investment services or carrying out investment activities, including open investment fund management companies when providing certain investment services. The amount to which clients' claims of members of this fund will be secured up to a value of not more than 150000 kuna. The proposal for a capital market law shall also specify in detail the annual, half-yearly and quarterly reporting of securities issuers, deadlines and methods of such reporting, as well as the additional obligations of issuers in relation to the publication of any changes in securities issued and changes in the conditions which may affect the change in the rights of issued securities as well as any new issue of securities. The additional reporting thresholds for changes in the ownership structure are also introduced 5% or 15%, and the reporting bonds are detailed. The notification procedure and the content of the notification of changes in the ownership structure shall also be prescribed. In a different way, the law prescribes and detailedly regulates the obligation to make a prospectus in the public supply of securities or to include securities on a regulated market. The principle of investor protection is realised in a way that the investor makes the investment decision on the basis of accurate and complete information on the company, i.e. the securities it invests in. What's very important is the same for the prominent. Therefore, the law will also introduce European standards on market abuse, so this matter will be comprehensively and systematically regulated. The provisions of this Part of the Law apply exclusively to financial instruments on a regulated market. A new definition of privileged information shall be introduced. So far, these are material facts and market abuses. In the termology so far, it was market manipulation. In particular, recommendations, research, analysis and similar reports shall be regulated which are explicitly or tacitly recommended or propose an investment strategy in respect of one or more financial instruments or issuers of financial instruments. General rules for the presentation of recommendations, additional recommendations requirements, general rules for the publication of interest and conflicts of interest in the making of recommendations, the distribution of recommendations made by the third party, additional obligations for investment firms and credit institutions in relation to the distribution of recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say at the end of this introductory word, so you can see for yourself, from the pure scope of the law, which is 600 articles, currently applicable to the Securities Market Act some 80 articles, and therefore it is quite clear and obvious that this law is where and where more comprehensive. It implements the provisions of Directives 15 of the European and three of the regulations. So we have decided to try as much of the provisions of these directives and regulations as possible to implement in this law. The law also states in a number of articles that a significant part of the additional regulation will actually be implemented through sublegal acts. Most of it is the rules prescribed by HANFA. However, as I said, so one very large and comprehensive law. But we consider in any case a quality that will further improve the regulation of the situation and the overall conduct of trade in the capital market. In the end, let me just say it. The proposed law would therefore enter into force on 1 January 2009, and the period of harmonisation of the entities to which the law applies is 6 months from the entry into force. So, the end of June 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14384	Thank you. Committees on legislation, European integration, finance and the state budget. Yeah. The chairman of the board, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 14th session held on 10 July 2008, the Finance and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the capital market, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 2 July 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question under Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The discussion on the Committee supports the identification of the legislators of this law to regulate overall capital market regulation by one law, thus making it easier to comply with EU directives regulating the capital market. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law on the capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14386	Thank you. Stay. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14387	Thank you very much. The Capital Market Act is without a doubt to replace the existing 2002 Securities Market Act and supplementing 2006 and to regulate in a significantly different way the business of persons authorised to conduct financial instruments transactions, while at the same time amending the conditions for organised trading in financial instruments, the procedure for issuing securities to the public offering, the protection of investors and the holder of securities rights, the immaterialised securities and the establishment and authorisation of the Central... the depositary society, and so far the Central Depositary Agency as well as the stock exchanges and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law will also introduce new concepts and, in particular, regulate different rights and obligations of participants in the capital market. A number of provisions of the law are in the function of better protecting investment companies' clients and preserving market integrity by harmonising requirements that investment firms and regulated markets must meet when accessing a work permit as well as through clearly established rules of business behaviour. This law introduces a system of investor protection with a emphasis on setting up a Fund for the Protection of Investors in which members of the Fund will be able to pay cash in order to ensure the protection of the interests of the clients of the Fund if the member of the Fund is not in a position to pay or return to the client in certain cases. The members of that fund will be investment firms authorised to hold funds and financial instruments of clients and credit institutions providing investment services and carrying out investment activities, as well as open investment fund management companies providing certain investment services. The amount to which the client's demand for members of this fund will be secured is not more than 150 thousand kuna per client. According to the draft law, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, i.e. HANFA, gives its previous consent to the Minister of Finance the accounting, the manner and time limits of payment of the regular contribution to the Fund. The Capital Market Act also prescribes a larger initial contribution of 35,000 kuna, which is required to pay each member of the Fund, a depositary of contributions. Contributions paid for the fund and other revenue made by the fund manager shall be managed in a special account opened at the Croatian National Bank and shall constitute a fund. Under the HANFA plan, the fund operator will be the central depositary agency. The law sets out in detail the annual, half-yearly and quarterly reporting of securities issuers, deadlines and the manner of such reporting, as well as the additional obligations of issuers in relation to the publication of any changes in securities issued rights and changes in the conditions which may affect the change in the rights of issued securities as well as any new issue of securities. The additional reporting thresholds for changes in the ownership structure of 5 and 15% shall also be introduced, the bonds of such reporting shall be detailed and the reporting procedure and the content of the notification of changes in the ownership structure shall be prescribed. In a different way, the law prescribes and detailedly regulates the prospectus obligation in the case of a public supply of securities or the inclusion of securities on a regulated market. The Capital Market Act establishes the principle of investor protection in a way that the investor makes a decision on investment on the basis of accurate and complete information in the company, i.e. on the securities it invests in. This capital market law will certainly introduce European standards for market abuse, as this matter is both comprehensively and systematically regulated. The provisions of this law apply exclusively to financial instruments on a regulated market. This Capital Market Act introduces a new definition of privileged information instead of material facts so far, as well as market abuses instead of market manipulation so far. In particular, recommendations, i.e. research, analysis and similar reports which are specifically or tacitly recommended or proposed an investment strategy in respect of one or more financial instruments or issuers of financial instruments shall be regulated. At the same time, general rules are regulated for the presentation of recommendations, additional requirements regarding the presentation of recommendations, general rules for the publication of interest and conflicts of interest in the making of recommendations, and the distribution of recommendations made by third parties and additional obligations for investment firms and credit institutions in relation to the distribution of recommendations. This capital market law is conditional. First of all, the process of adapting Croatia's legislation to the acquis, although the existing Securities Market Act already contains some solutions that have partly already been made. As far as this proposal for a Capital Market Act is comprehensive, the fact that the Securities Market Act currently has about 80 articles, to which this Capital Market Act has 600 articles. It is important to stress that compliance with the European acquis will be implemented not only by law, but also by means of a number of regulations that will be adopted by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency on the basis of legal powers. It is assumed that some of the currently existing 32 brokerage companies and 21 banks, which are licensed to carry out securities transactions, will cease to exist with the adoption of this Capital Market Act due to the inability to meet numerous and demanding organisational conditions, but also the conditions relating to the de facto capital. It should also point out that the legal area of the capital market in the European Union is very dynamic and subject to frequent changes, so that this law and sublegislative acts should be expected more often and faster changes than usual. Of course, because of all the above, the HDZ club supports this commitment to regulate the overall capital market regulation by law, and of course the HDZ Club will vote for the adoption of the Capital Market Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14388	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maras. Here you go. Gordan, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14389	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. At the very beginning, let me say that this law is too important for all Croatian citizens and the entire Croatian economy. What makes him too important? Because it regulates the market on which they operate, for example. pension funds through which millions and 400 thousand Croatian citizens are directly involved in the market, which are members of compulsory pension funds. It regulates the market in which 800,000 of our citizens participate after a stockholdership boom in Croatia. It regulates a market where, although traffic has fallen during this year, it has caused negative world trends, revenue achieved, i.e. 2 billion kuna in May, and a month earlier, more than 2.5 billion kuna. All of this I'm saying is that we try to figure out how important this law is, to lay down clear rules on that market, and to protect all participants from potential dangers that could happen with unconscious behavior from any participant. For this reason, I must say that the SDP Representatives' Club is not satisfied that this law is passed on a short-term basis without more serious public debate. Let me remind you, in the middle of last week, we received a proposal from this law on benches, which, by the way, has 600 articles and is written on page 381 of the text. We got him on the assembly bench last Wednesday, today's the debate, and tomorrow we'll probably vote on him. In doing so, we are even less clear as to why we are in such a hurry when its official application begins early in the next year 2009. Someone may say that negotiations with the EU have made an obligation to bring this part of the legislation into line by the end of June of this year, but it is difficult for us to accept the fact that because or because of the slowness of our administration in the preparation of legislative proposals, such an important law must be passed literally overnight. We are sure that this will result in some solutions that are not ideal and that we will soon have to change. I must say that the public debate on the law has come down to a lecture in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, on 30 June of the representative of the HANF, i.e. just reading the legislative proposal without the possibility of a real debate. This is certainly not the way the law that affects such an important segment of Croatian society should be passed. The adoption of this law is conditional upon the applicant, the process of adapting Croatia's legislation to European acquis, and this will be implemented through the sixth articles and certain regulations to be issued by the HANF on the basis of legal authority. The Capital Market Act regulates the area of investment services and the provision of investment activities, for example, the regulation of the market. We define the offer of securities to the public, the publication of information related to them, market abuse, immaterial securities and other matters relevant to this market. In the law that we have before us, we support the provisions that define the system of investor protection, i.e. to protect investment up to 150 thousand kuna through the establishment of the Fund for the Protection of Investors. We also welcome the provisions that will contribute to greater transparency on this market through timely and quality reporting of all participants. Unfortunately, we have a feeling that the law goes hand in hand to big players on the capital market. These are usually large brokerage houses or banks that will be able to comply with the material requirements that this law will put before them. Smaller and medium-sized brokerage houses will be difficult to survive with these demands put before them. It is, for example, basic capital of 6 million kuna or if you are only dealing with certain services on the capital market of 400,000 kuna, but then you must have a very high insurance premium for possible damages that can occur. The lack of transparency of the capital market so far is too low a number of critical considerations and analyses related to the issuers of financial instruments and the insufficient quality of information available to small investors. For a long time, these shortcomings have been highlighted as the biggest emerging problem in the market and investors are facing in the market. So we think that all the provisions in the law that go towards greater transparency in that market are good, especially those that say that privileged information directly related to the issuer of financial instruments that must be available at that time and that the publisher must put them on his own website. A few words about an act that speaks of market abuse. The SDP representative club believes that this part of the law is very important because we have witnessed in the short history of trading on our stock exchanges many examples when data has been manipulated and privileged information has been used to gain property benefits. The first thing that can be observed from the law is that there are well-predicted situations in which a legal or natural person could use privileged information in an unlawful manner and manipulate the market for the purpose of benefiting from it. I don't know if it was accidentally missed, but there's no punishment in law for a person who uses privileged information in trading a particular stock. There is also no penalty for the person who gives privileged information to another person who can then trade on the capital market. So it's stipulated by law that this situation is not allowed, and there's no sanction for a person who might have done it in the infringing provisions. It is stipulated by the law that no conduct is allowed, for example, if you do not publish privileged information at that moment, and we believe that in the manipulation of the market and non-disclosure of privileged information fines from 500 000 to a million and a half kuna for legal persons, or 30 thousand to 100 thousand kuna for individuals may not be adequate. I ask you, is a million and a half kuna a lot when on one privileged information you can earn tens of millions of kunas or when you can sell your shares on market manipulation for a much higher value than it is real, and tomorrow those who bought them and who may be thousands will lose their money that they invested in that stock. For such great manipulations, we think that it should stand a stricter penalty and even be the intended sentence of prison. Let us only remember how such things are treated in foreign markets and how people who come in different ways to privileged information are punished. But when we are punished, we come to that fundamental question that we ask, is anyone ever punished in Croatia for using privileged information? Somebody fix me, but I don't think so. We know a few examples when there were also criminal charges and criminal charges against certain management presidents of our companies who, for example, have denied privileged information for 4 days to their shareholders. They didn't give any information that there was a more high-quality offer for shares, such as Pliva, but it seems to me that such violations have never been sanctioned in Croatia before. Finally, let me say something about the very development of the capital market in Croatia. As I said, we have over 800,000 of our fellow citizens who have had this experience or traded on the capital market. Last year we had five IPOs, and the most famous of course is the IPO of HT. That's when the election year brought us into the story of a slow stock exchange. The state gave shares on which in a few days you could earn 40% on the stake. We were promised land where you could make money without doing anything. But if that weren't the case, those fellow citizens of ours who took the credit so that they could buy the stock. They didn't immediately sell the shares, and now 7, 8 months after that purchase, they're not actually winning, but when the cost of the loan is calculated, they probably lost. In the future, we expect a greater role of the regulatory body and the stock market itself to prevent such irresponsible actions, that in some ways we promise people something that is not possible in the real world. Without enough education where people would be clearly told that they could lose on this investment and ultimately that this job is not something that provides quick and simple profit. On the other hand, in the last month, we have witnessed quite a non-transparent process of further privatisation of the INA, where the prime minister first advocates the replacement of INA and MOL shares and afterwards the offer of OMV appears. Based on information on the offer of OMV, the price of the INA stock has jumped 30% in the last few days. And what now, if there is already a principled agreement to replace the shares of INA and MOL and ultimately that the price that MOL will offer for the INA stock will be less than it is now on the market. Is that privileged information our investors may not have? Does such information mean that all those investors who are now buying INA shares on the stock market, expecting a more transparent privatisation process, can lose their money? I'm saying all of this to try to figure out how important and complex matter is. Although we are aware in the Advocacy Club that we must pass some laws faster because of the process of harmonising our legislation with the European acquis, we believe that such pre-emergency laws should not be passed overnight. I say, in three days, discuss something on committees, hold a quality debate and vote immediately without any more quality public debates, we don't think it's good. That is why we cannot support this law, but we will remain abstention in the vote on how to show that we do not in principle support the work of the Croatian Parliament when it comes to such important laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14390	Thank you. For the HSS club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14391	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The new Capital Market Act, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should be fully replaced by the existing Securities Act and in its essential provisions is in line with the acquis of the European Union. The proposal also warns that, in addition to the law, the area of business and investment in securities will be regulated by sublaws in the integration of HANFA, the financial services regulatory agency. The basic general observation is that the proposed law is one of the most comprehensive laws in its 600 articles and threatens the danger of excessive regulation. The general trend in the Member States of the European Union, particularly those countries that want to improve and encourage the capital market, to modernise the regulatory framework and adapt to modern trends in the international capital market, but to maintain the necessary level of investor protection. The proposed Capital Market Act should therefore be incomparably simpler and especially for international investors on the capital market more understandable. Excessive regulation as proposed, without the urgency of the proposals for modernisation and real adaptation, the main trends in the regulatory frameworks of the European Union's capital market, can only be reluctant to investors and will not achieve the desired objectives. In a significantly different way, the bill regulates the establishment, status and work of former brokerage companies, now according to the investment companies' proposal. In a new way, their work and role of HANFA are regulated in monitoring the work of investment companies as well as the protection of investors. In this respect, the proposal provides certain modern solutions that are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, but which will improve the action and responsibility of current brokerage companies. In a different way, the question of the capital adequacy of investment companies is also regulated, thus raising the level of capital equipment of these companies and increasing the safety of their clients. The proposal also brings some newspapers in the area of orderly capital markets, i.e. the stock exchange. The arrangements and conditions for issuing and trading securities on a regulated market are also regulated. The issue of regulated capital markets will certainly have to be changed once again by the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full European Union membership, when the concept of an open financial market or by the full involvement of the domestic capital market in the integrated European Union capital market will be fully expressed. A particularly important area regulated in a completely new way is the area of market information abuse and market manipulation that is most strictly regulated or prohibited. Since the current practice of the action of participants in the capital market is a full example of market information abuse and often market abuses, the bill introduces a significantly different regulatory framework which would place the current practice of market information abuse and attempt to manipulate the need under the threat of strict sanctions provided for by the law at the very least, to a minimum. We believe that this law will greatly help to adapt to European Union regulations and resolve, i.e. better regulate the area of the capital market than the existing one. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports this proposal of the Capital Market Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14392	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14393	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am at first to express regret that we are actually passing this law by an urgent procedure without quality public debate on this subject and we have heard the presentations of colleagues of Maras. One single debate was one lecture in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. However, this law will really have a major impact on all citizens in the Republic of Croatia whose life is directly involved through pension funds, whose life is directly involved through thousands of small shareholders who invest their money in investment companies. But here we are to implement the European Commission Directives, the MiFIDA Directive. But who else of the non-European Member States in the European Union is so strictly applying all these directives? No one. Members in the European Union mean Member States in the European Union have not applied all the directives and have gradually introduced certain directives. Countries that have a centuries-old tradition on the capital market, the centuries-old tradition is decided for 10 years to apply some directives, and we are now acting as if by this law at once as a member of the European Union and we will apply all the directives without any influence or analysis of what kind of changes will bring into our capital market. I wish I had that analysis, that you had consulted the profession before to do that analysis, not that you're now coming with a bill like this without any analysis. And maybe we'll be faced with some things having to change. And that's the principle by which let's bring me all these European laws, if we have to take off our underpants in front of Europe, but only that they can't object to us, just so we can bring them in as soon as possible. So, this is not a negotiating process, the negotiating process is the process in which the interests of the Republic of Croatia are protected, and they do not pass laws and do not follow the rules of the European Union, as a drunk float. Besides, there's a bunch of questions I have to ask and now I'm asking a fellow secretary of state and I'm looking for an answer. So, for the first time in this law that has 500, 600 articles, 600 articles that are much larger than this so far, the Securities Trading Act, we bring it suddenly, the notion is expanded that it is an investment society through a bunch of different segments, and I wonder if, in view of its capacities, it will be able to control all these financial instruments or it will have to employ 500 new people. I think that too must be of interest to the taxpayers of this country. The second question, too many exceptions to which the second chapter of the law does not apply. So why is such a large list of exceptions? Prison sentences shall also be abolished for intermediaries of privileged information, i.e. which information abuses. Although the fact is that in this country no one has ever responded to the use of privileged information. Speaking of penalties, when Sanader and Zuzul were at the opera in Verona, when we agreed to sell Pliva at that time was the man against whom HANFA filed a criminal application, Zeljko Covic had an offer from BARR and therefore bought shares at a lower price, which he later sold more expensively. In this process, it is estimated that he has acquired an asset of 30 million kuna, and now you are hereby prescribing a fine for individuals of 100,000 kuna. So tell me, what is it to a man who gets 30 million kunas of illegal benefit, to pay 100 thousand kuna? The next thing, which is not sufficiently defined, is the question of the adequateness of capital that will be determined by the agency and discreetly. So on the one hand, you yourself said in the context of the opening law that certain brokerage houses would have to connect less power, or completely disappear from the market. Of course, 21 banks that have no problem providing adequate capital in a monetary sense will remain. But let's not forget that banks are mostly and almost all owned by foreigners de facto by this decision on capital adequateness, which is discretionary, so you haven't worked it out properly, you haven't worked it out at all, you've given guidance on how to develop it, you're protecting foreign capital and you're sending a message to Croatian investors by, by the way, it's time for the foreign investors to invest here. Next question, the Investor Protection Fund. How will this fund be charged and we must have 20m euros in account until we enter the European Union? How will it be charged except for those initial 35,000 kunas for the members? So, I wish you'd at least figured out through some guidance on how to charge that fund. And that's what I have to say now, in 2002, when the quotations were introduced. The necessity of quotations from public shareholders, so all stock companies have to show their results on the stock market, they have to quarterlyly submit a business report, which was initially created by one, 'let's say this in a non-flexible administrative framework, but then there was a boom on the capital market. Swedish, Finnish, many European funds, thanks to their insight into all the data of business entities in Croatia, have come here and invested money and a bunch of other markets, introduced the same thing after the Zagreb Stock Exchange, following a good example of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and now this law puts the obligation into retirement, so it is put past the strength. However, if it is put past the force for all new entities that do not want to, or want to trade discreetly or otherwise, I have no objection, but it is put in a way that those who are now on the market can withdraw. And there's Article 332. And now I'm going to read you what it says. So, I'd like you to explain that to me. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does this mean a respected fellow secretary, that if the president of the administration at a rainy day in an unaccessible time, very discreetly convenes the main assembly of shareholders and is attended by 51% of all who represent the underlying capital. Does that mean that he can make a decision, and according to this, he can, as it says here, make it three-quarters of 51%? You know what that means? When Sanader goes to the opera in Budapest to arrange to sell INA, when MOL comes to INA MOL can decide in the assembly by owning enough shares to say ok, it no longer suits us that we are on the market and now we will withdraw from the market. And to all shareholders whose price is now the stock of 2 thousand 900 kuna will offer a fair fee. However,... and not just that. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] And if they also issue an unfair fee for shares, no penalty and sanctions are prescribed for those who do so because they are projected to become obsolete after six months. We have given because of this Article 332 paragraph 2 of the amendment to include the word "total" between a quarter and a capital base, so that "total share capital" and that this other part of the sentence is "represented in the main assembly when making a decision" because it is simply in the name of reason. And I have a feeling and what might happen is that by adopting the law in this form of comprehensive that a lot of things will define later by sublegal acts a lot of things isn't predicted, a lot of things haven't been done. And I have a feeling you'll be moving the market for small shareholders in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14394	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14395	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like people in this house to really refer to themselves the way they deserve it. So Mr. Sanader hasn't negotiated any sales of Pliva's shares in Verona, neither has anyone ever claimed it, nor is it true. Because what happened with Pliva's shares was very transparent in front of the Croatian public and clearly exceeded two companies on several occasions. So very transparent, unlike the fact that the SDP, for example, sold or donated it to the INA. In what way? In a very non-transparent way. HDZ implements privatisation policy in a very transparent and public way, unlike the way you sold it to the INA, without telling the hotels, that we are not talking about other ownership of the Croatian state, therefore Pliva itself, that we are not talking about Pliva shares before they were sold. Therefore, do not speak such inaccuracies and address them in the right way as it is worthy of this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14396	Replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14397	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bernardić, you have checked well but here I will believe that there is only a question of nomotechnics, that there is no intention, that the proposer probably by mistake put such a provision which can be interpreted in several ways. It's normal everywhere in the world that if three-quarters of the capital in a company wants to make a decision and that's a decision that simply if you don't have 25% plus one share, no one can challenge it. Of course, then it's possible to get off the securities market. But in this case you've said well it would be possible theoretically with 37.5% of the underlying capital and that should be corrected in this law. And we gave that amendment to correct it. And as for the transparency of the further privatisation process of INA, not if it wasn't non-transparent, but I don't know what word I'd call it, as I would call it. A month ago we received the first information that there was an exchange with MOL, the prime minister met in Dubrovnik with the Prime Minister of Hungary, now the OMV offer is coming, the government is transferring responsibility to HANFA, shareholders are buying shares on the stock exchange of 3,000 kuna shares. What if Croatia agreed to replace shares with OMV in a way of 1:3 so that share is worth much less, so MOL that there is a binding offer on the stock market that will not be 3 thousand kuna but much less. You know what, what's that answer? Croatian shareholders or investors will lose money. That's the deal. That information should also be made clear to the Croatian public. And for this reason, I believe that this law in that part of the privileged information should also be further completed and in some way imposed some sanctions because the law did not criminally provide for any sanctions for the provision of privileged information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14398	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14399	Thank you, colleague Maras, for supporting me in my thesis. And I hope that it really happens to be the second paragraph of Article 332 that looks what it looks like and that's why we have submitted the amendment that this injustice that is now here is this article that now seems to make it right. So, I, too, in good faith really think it was an accident by the promoter that this article was classified in this text as it was, as it was also by chance that Željko Covic, Ivo Sanader and Miomir Zuzul were also accidentally in Verona on the same opera, which is also an accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14400	Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14401	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The capital market for each country represents an area of special importance. In this market, financial instruments are placed to finance many development projects through which companies supply the necessary capital and also through which institutional and small investors seek to earn profits under different conditions than, for example, by savings in banks. Due to the importance of the capital market and also due to its exceptional sensitivity, the proposal for a law on the capital market is one of the most important laws governing relations in financial markets. The new law thus provides for a investor protection system through the establishment of a investor protection fund whose members will have to be all investment companies. The members of the fund will pay the funds in order to ensure the protection of the search of the clients of the fund members, which is a member of the fund in certain cases, is not able to pay or return to the client. The members of that fund will be investment firms authorised to hold funds and financial instruments of clients and credit institutions providing investment services and carrying out investment activities, as well as open investment fund management companies when providing certain investment services. The provision of recommendations to clients in the form of research, analysis of reports specifically or tacitly proposed by the investment strategy will be regulated in terms of better protection of investors and prevention of trust abuse. The most important thing about this is the regulation of a prospectus obligation in the case of a public supply of securities or the inclusion of securities on a regulated market. The new law will thus provide protection that, in the following way, the investor makes a decision to invest on the basis of accurate and complete information on the company or securities it invests in. The new law calls for the investment company to adopt liquidity crisis management plans, which certainly makes investors in investment funds happy because not so long ago we have had the opportunity to witness the statements made by the president of the management of some respected fund management companies that the fund managers are forced to sell shares because the funds are inequitable and that the withdrawal of the roles of their participants cannot be affected. Moreover, the HANFA Regulation will prescribe minimum requirements for the risk management of the liquidity of an investment company. Each investment firm will therefore have an approved internal risk measurement procedure from HANFA, although for all types of risk, the HANFA rules will prescribe a method of calculating the capital requirement. A number of provisions of the law are in the function of better protecting investment companies' clients and preserving market integrity by harmonising requirements that investment firms and regulated markets must meet when entering work permits as well as through business conduct rules. All of this will contribute to the protection of small investors in the capital market and contribute to the creation of small investors' confidence in the Croatian capital market. Finally, I personally consider this to be an extremely high-quality law and therefore give full support to the adoption of a final proposal for a capital market law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14402	Thank you. Final review of State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, thank you for this debate. We heard several valid and arguments and comments on the proposal for a law on the capital market, however, and several comments that I would now like to comment on. So criticism related to consultation with the expert public. Something I said recently when we discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. So concrete facts, I'll just say a few facts. The task force working on this bill was composed amongst others and we call it the industry. So from the capital market. When the first draft was drawn he was on the HANFA website for 2 months available. So we can say publicly available. All opinions were further and subsequently discussed within the working group. So I repeat the industry one more time. And you yourself know that this law must have been consulted and discussed with the representatives of the European Commission so that our departures to Brussels as well as their comments were further discussed with representatives of the professional public. However, in any case, I can accept the argument in some way and criticise you parliamentary representatives and such urgency and urgency. But on the other hand, I repeat to you once again, so this law is not a fruit of any hasty, speed, but very thoroughly prepared. At the end of my opening statement, I said about 15 directives and 3 regulations. So our intention is not, so I have to repeat, and I believe that a good part of my colleagues is the same behind this pay phone in front of the government saying that when we talk about European directives, so when we refer to the old members of the European Union the time and circumstances when they joined the European Union were still we all have to agree on something different. And if there are certain laws where certain Member States have not fully applied certain provisions of the Directives and regulations, in no case shall they amnesty or exclude that they will not have to do so. For some provisions, they may have a certain transitional period. We know what our tasks are, and we know what our duties are, and that's how we try to do it. As far as the Capital Market Act is concerned, there was the same option that we might try to break those directives and regulations to several laws, however, we felt that regardless of the scope of 600 articles now, this was one happier solution. I am pleased to hear the same in the debate that you welcome and certainly support certain and that you have recognized the government's actual efforts to draw up this law where, in fact, in a better and more transparent way, certain things will be regulated and regulated in the capital market. As for HANFA, so HANFA is among other things one can say so main player in this whole story. In any case, HANFA was at the head of the task force and I can only answer your question very simply. Therefore, all this work and supervision for the HANFA resulting from the proposal for a capital market law will be fully able to implement and operate HANFA. This is both her task and the HANFA draft itself practically has and, here we can say from the local public but also from abroad only commendation of her work and I am absolutely sure that she and as regards the application of the provisions of articles and articles of the individual Capital Market Act will do her job. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, criminal provisions are also a very clear fact. On 10.9th, a meeting of the Working Group of the Capital Markets Act and the Criminal Law, i.e. the Criminal Law, was convened. So our decision was that all these criminal provisions would be implemented and put into the Penal Code that goes towards the end of this year so that, as we said at the end of the opening statement of 1.1.2009, we can look for, we can expect to actually implement this law. And finally, just one answer, so as far as your amendment is concerned, I thank you for it, and in any case I can say that we will consider it, but I can answer you right away. So what we've been saying to the congregation of any trading society not, I have to say so is not scheduled on the basis of some weather or trouble. And the Law on Commercial Society makes it very clear how it is called both the annual and any extraordinary congregation. The extraordinary congregation and the annual congregation, the very call for the agenda is proposed to all shareholders who then have the right and the opportunity to actually decide whether or not they want to join or participate in the discussion of the congregation. Our intention in any case of this law, I have to be very clear here, was not in any event in any event that anything affected negatively as we have heard here on the market of small shareholders. And finally, I would like to thank you once again for your amendment to the esteemed SDP representatives as well as the Legislator's Committee which will, in any case, contribute to the improvement of the nomotechnics, but in fact some perhaps deeper things in the Capital Market Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14404	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned criminal provisions. I must mention that this law only mentions violations and what you just said concerns me a little bit. So now we're not supposed to do these things that we're bringing...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14406	Dear Maras, this is a comment, but not a correction of an incorrect quote./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14407	It's not a comment. So it's not a comment when I can show my colleague Maric said there are criminal provisions in the law. They're gone and I'm saying that now it's a worrying situation that these criminal provisions are not intended for these manipulations and irregularities stemming from this law. And that's what I'm really worried about. I hope that you will settle this in the next six months and that you will bring it into the Penal Code, because it is unacceptable for someone to earn a certain amount of money on the capital market without paying even a criminal penalty under some of the provisions of this law. The articles speak of a person being able to have privileged information, say it to anyone, and he will not pay a penalty for it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14408	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14409	Here's the thing. I wanted to point out that the wrong thesis of the promoter that both the working group meeting and the amendments to the Penal Code will remove weaknesses in the repressive part of the law for the reason that the criminal liability is one form of responsibility, the criminal others and they may, but they do not have to intervene, so that it would be good to consider now this little time that we have left this remark on the criminal provisions to be better. And what will be in the Penal Code will only be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14410	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14411	We move to the Final Proposal of the Capital Market Act, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 131. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Joint Representatives Davor Bernardić and Gordan Maras. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Capital markets. Please make it clear on the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment 1 to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14412	Mr. President, the government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14413	Therefore, amendments 1 to Articles 5 to 17 of the amendments were accepted, the government accepted all amendments. And we have a proposal from MPs Davor Bernardic and Gordan Maras on Article 332.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14414	The government does not accept for reasons because this would make it significantly difficult to make the final decision on the withdrawal of the company from inclusion in the regulated market. Thank you. Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14415	Thank you. Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14416	Thank you very much. Well, look, Mr. Minister, according to this proposal, we already explained it yesterday in the debate. It's possible to pull the company off the stock market with 37% of the underlying capital. We don't think that's appropriate, or that we need to secure 3/4 of the total core capital, and in this way, theoretically, when we sell either to OMV or MOL to INA, they could move the INA from the stock market with 37% of the underlying capital in some theoretical variant. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14417	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Capital Market Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of votes, 88 votes for, 37 abstentions and 2 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14419	We are going to the next item - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Washing, Searching, Suspension and Subtraction of revenue obtained by criminal act and on the financing of terrorism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 132 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, the judiciary and internal policy and national security. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The law certifying the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, Suspension and confiscation of revenue obtained by criminal offences and on the financing of terrorism is ratified by that Convention. The obligation to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, Suspension and Abuse of revenue obtained by criminal act and on the financing of terrorism stems from Chapter 24 of the negotiations – Justice, Freedom and Security, and is foreseen by the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. At its meeting held on 10 April 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Convention in question authorising the Extraordinary and Authorised Ambassador, the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia at the Council of Europe, to sign on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, subject to ratification of the Convention in question. The Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia signed this Convention on 29 April 2008. Most of the Member States of the Council of Europe are parties to the Convention. The purpose of the Convention is to establish an effective system of international cooperation in order to increase the efforts of the parties States to combat serious crime by means of the use of effective international methods consisting of taking away the perpetrators of the criminal offences of income obtained by criminal acts and means. Furthermore, the purpose of the Convention is that each State Party adopts legislative and other measures to ensure its capacity to seek, to track, to establish, to freeze, to suspend and confiscate property of legal or illegal origin used or intended to use any means entirely or partly to finance terrorism or revenue achieved by this criminal offence, and to ensure cooperation to the maximum extent possible. Confirmation of the Convention will require the addition of the penal legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Confirmation of the Convention is a significant step in further adapting Croatia's legal system to European standards. The comparison of national legislation with the Convention in question estimates that the Croatian regulations governing this issue contain part of the provisions of the Convention. However, further harmonisation will be required in relation to certain provisions of the Convention, in particular as regards the amendment of certain provisions of the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. The Action Plan for the Prevention of Money Laundering provides for an amendment to the Penal Code as regards the accuracy of the definition of the crime of money laundering set out in Article 279. Penalty law. Amendments to that Article of the Penal Code will be made in such a way as to fully comply with Article 1. Directives of the European Commission. The same Directives as with the provisions of the Convention, in particular with regard to definitions and assets and property benefits. The interest in confirming the Convention also stems from the fact that the Republic of Croatia and the parties to the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Suspension and confiscation of revenue obtained by criminal acts drawn up in Strasbourg on 8 November 1990, as well as the International Convention on the Prevention of Financing of Terrorism, drawn up in New York on 9 December 1999. By confirming the Convention, Croatia will improve cooperation between the States of the parties to the Convention in order to combat serious crime more effectively, which requires the use of modern and effective methods aimed at confiscating the perpetrators of criminal offences obtained by criminal acts and means to prevent money laundering as well as to combat terrorist financing, all for the purpose of managing a common criminal policy aimed at protecting society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14421	Thank you. The committees? The legislation, European integration, the judiciary, internal policy and national security. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14422	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, I would like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Searching, Temporary Subsistence and Subsistence of revenue obtained by criminal act and on the financing of terrorism submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 2 July 2008 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. This proposal for a law harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. This Convention shall be ratified by the parties to which most of the Member States of the Council of Europe are parties. The interest in confirming the convention stems from the fact that the Republic of Croatia and the Party to the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Suspension and confiscation of revenue obtained by criminal acts as well as from the International Convention on the Prevention of Financing of Terrorism. It is also important to point out that the obligation to ratify the Convention stems from Chapter 24, justice, freedom and security, and is in line with the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The main objective to achieve the ratification of the Convention is to establish an effective system of international cooperation in order to increase the efforts of the parties' countries to combat serious crime by using effective international methods consisting of taking away perpetrators of criminal offences, incomes, criminal offences and resources. The bill also prescribes investigative powers and techniques, legal medicines, crime of money laundering, legal liability, financial intelligence and prevention, national measures to prevent money laundering. Furthermore, the Convention requires that each State Party adopts legislative and other measures to ensure its capacity to seek, to track down, freeze, suspend and confiscate property of legal or illegal origin used or intended to use any means to finance terrorism or revenue achieved by this criminal offence and to ensure cooperation to the widest extent possible. In view of the fact that certain provisions of the Convention do not comply with the provisions of the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, the confirmation of the Convention will require the addition of criminal legislation in particular in a part of the more precise definition of the crime of money laundering. Amendments to certain articles of the Penal Code will be made to fully comply with Articles 1 and 3. Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Commission... as well as with the provisions of the Convention, especially in the case of the definition of property and property benefit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fight against serious crime can be effectively achieved through international cooperation between the Member States of the Council of Europe, as well as by unifying Member States' criminal legislation. By confirming the Convention, the Republic of Croatia will improve co-operation between the States of the parties to the Convention in order to combat serious crime more effectively, or rather, will include the introduction of a common criminal policy on the protection of society. For the sake of the abovementioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, this proposal will support the law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Suspension and Abduction of revenue obtained by criminal acts and terrorist financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14423	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14424	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. How much, it could be said, in global terms, a serious problem of money laundering and crime related to money laundering and vice versa, money laundering to finance criminal offences shows the need for matter to be arranged and combated transnationally in order to obtain international legal opportunity to combat such crime. Of course, the SDP club, it could be said, is highly expected that in the Croatian system of anti-money laundering with the principles of regulation and the accumulation of regulations in this area, it will also move on to the activity of preventing money laundering and all that is related to it. So, of course, we will vote in favour of passing this law and confirming the convention. Unfortunately, we're late for that. If Croatia had used a system so far to prevent money laundering, of course the national mind that has warned about it for 15 years, I am convinced that the disastrous consequences of living standards and the social security of Croatian citizens from the conversion and privatisation process that has been carried out in Croatia would have been a crucial reduction. Today we would have at least an x-ray of our bank accounts, under the alleged signs of "successful entrepreneurs" from conversion and privatisation. We knew how much they had on their accounts in Austria, the Canary Islands or somewhere else. And 15 years after, or 17, or 19 years after we were able to implement measures to prevent money laundering, the European Commission's report, in particular the Council of Europe's Committee on the Prevention of Money Laundering in the Republic of Croatia, stresses the need to strengthen Croatian institutional and interinstitutional cooperation within the country and with such institutions in Europe. So, each of the Croatian institutions in charge of preventing money laundering, and it has quite limited them by specialist action and jurisdiction from its work. For this reason, we would have to analyse why the Parliament has not discussed or discussed the so-called so-called Parliament until now. independent Croatian institutions responsible for preventing money laundering in Croatia. In this session, therefore, at this session, the Croatian Parliament discussed 2 laws, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Finance of Terrorism and the Financial Inspectorate Act. These two laws, which we have already discussed, have been established by many entities and many institutions in the Republic of Croatia that are in charge of preventing money laundering. It is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Financial Inspectorate, that is the Croatian National Bank and all banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If this is known, and yet the European Commission and the European Council warns us that our institutions do not cooperate, proper cooperation within the country and not similar institutions of the European Union, then we must be concerned that this law, or this Convention, will introduce another institution that is responsible for preventing money laundering in the Republic of Croatia, it is the MUP. But we do not have a specific co-ordinator in all these entities that are responsible to the Croatian Parliament. If some institutions are independent of the Government such as the Office for the Prevention of Money, then the Croatian Parliament would have to receive an annual report on how successful the office was and how much property or money was seized in the process. Is that supposed to be the Ministry of the Interior in the future? If so, then we should predict that the system in the Republic of Croatia, the money prevention system is functioning in a coherent manner. Namely, the European Union's objections claim that inconsistency with the international standards of the Croatian system for preventing money laundering is one of the major problems in the Republic of Croatia. We also know, and Europe suggests that this system does not have sufficient cooperation or coordination, as well as Europe, but we also know that, even we feel very good, a lack of experts to carry out expert and quality surveillance in the repression and control of entities that are obliged to work on implementing the Law on Money Laundering, or to combat money laundering, in particular we do not have financial forensics who are professionals and trained for that, but most importantly we do not have any licensed experts who are qualified to analyse and prevent money laundering. So we re-determined to pass regulations and adopt international conventions that point to the world's problem of money laundering without analysing the real situation in our backyard. How many entities from the Croatian National Bank to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Financial Inspectorate, all banks act in harmony and what we have achieved in this area. We don't have that kind of analysis. Nevertheless, of course we cannot refuse and vote for this convention. At least it will point to everything that has been adopted on the normative part so far, but it will show in whiteness that practice is quite the opposite of what we adopt and determine by law. If this is the goal of harmonising Croatia's legal system with the European Union's system, I am afraid that we will have a greater obligation to coordinate when we enter the European Union, when I say we are formalists and that we are working on a level of form rather than content, that it will be much harder for all citizens, but also for the institutions in the first years of the European Union when we will have to comply with the standards of the European Union countries, because we will be in one hope in a harmonised system at least as far as this is concerned, than it is now. So our objection to this occasion is that it is not enough just to pass the laws on the prevention of money laundering and to spread the circle of institutions and persons dealing with it, but rather to implement them because it is only possible to say so, to stop the global problem of money laundering. If this has come to the ears of the Government, I hope that, at least for the past year, it will come to the benches of the Croatian Parliament, the report on money laundering and everything about it, by then we will vote to confirm the Convention on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Subtraction already as it is now called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14425	Thank you. Before further discussion, one notice. Today at 13.30 p.m. in the Croatian Parliament at entrance number 6, the relief of St. Joseph, the protector of the Croatian Parliament, and those who are not bound, would do well to attend that moment. Let's move on with the debate, on behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14426	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The management of serious crime, the acquisition of property in an illegal manner by criminal acts and thus acquired property financing terrorism are the topics covered by the entire international public. Therefore, by seeking solutions, the international community wants to ensure, above all, good international co-operation between the States of the present Convention, and to promote cooperation and apply modern and effective methods aimed at protecting society. We believe in the cube of the Croatian Peasant Party that the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, Temporary Subtraction and Subtraction of Incomes obtained by criminal acts and on the financing of terrorism, the Croatian Parliament should be supported or ratified. By confirming the Convention, the Republic of Croatia will show interest and will join the efforts of the International Community, especially the Member States of Europe, in order to further formulate the state's determination to fight serious crime in this area. The confirmation of the convention is also a significant step in further adapting Croatian legislation to European standards. The Convention will otherwise also constitute a legal framework for the further addition of the legislative framework necessary for the effective application and use of modern and effective methods aimed at confiscation of perpetrators of illegal income and cases obtained by criminal acts to prevent money laundering as well as to combat terrorist financing. In the process of adapting these standards, and in relation to certain provisions of the Convention further harmonisation will need to be most visible in terms of amending certain provisions of the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia. We consider the important element of the Convention to be the measures to confiscate illegally acquired assets, objects or revenues. If such acquired assets were not taken away, all other actions and efforts taken to detect the perpetrator would have no purpose, since it is often the revenue that is greater than the income of a man's entire working life, which means it would be worth spending some time, shorter time in prison, then clearly enjoying such an illegal acquired property or income. We also consider the provisions of Article 12 which speak of a financial intelligence unit which we consider to be extremely important both in international cooperation and in the notification of the member states of the signatories of the Convention. We would like to say to the debate that the Croatian Peasant Party will support the subject and text of the bill's proposal as the confirmation of the Convention will become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and will thus contribute to the implementation of a common criminal policy aimed at protecting society as a whole. With this in mind, we hope that all the assumptions for the entry into force of the Convention will be met as quickly as possible and that the central authorities of the State Administration in charge of the affairs of the judiciary, internal affairs, finance, together with the judicial authorities in which this law will be implemented, will make a full contribution to the effective implementation of this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14427	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Of course, in order to support it, and I personally support this proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching and Suspension of revenue obtained by criminal acts and on the financing of terrorism. The sooner and the more defeating the latest MONEYWALLA report, which says that Croatia today does not worry at all about the possibility of funding dirty money from even terrorist organisations, and about other abuses and malfeasances that are not spoken at all. So it's just part of the MONEYWALL report, the bodies in charge of fighting money laundering in Europe. The special chapter in the report speaks precisely about the devastating data in the past 10 years as far as our Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering is concerned, that Croatia was not at all dealing with cases of serious money laundering. Only two cases have been recorded in which 14 people have been charged, but there is no judicial epilogue. And then the public gets really confused and really wonders if every investigation goes without a trace. It has been warned that in the case of the Croatian Post Office, therefore, there are no appropriate regulations to monitor and control the flow of money. This report by MONEYWALL should be taken seriously, it has 200 pages and systematically therefore and the Council of Europe's Committee has contributed to this report and it is concluded that the dirty money in Croatia is mostly coming from the account, from a numberless account and from a false name account. So, I am now no longer quoting everything that is stated there because there was little more debate on the occasion of the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. So, when we adopt this proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching and Suspension of revenue obtained by criminal acts and on the financing of terrorism which are our tasks? It is our job, therefore, to remove in the law everything that is the obstacle and to incorporate everything that we contribute to combating money laundering, fighting, or to trace and confiscate incomes obtained by criminal acts and to prevent only terrorist financing. Is that what's going on? We on the agenda recently had and voted on the first reading of the CAP amendment. Here is the introduction, the Proposer and states what are the laws that will have to undergo the changes. Both the CAP and the KZ are listed. Other laws are listed. At the same time, almost at the same time in the parliamentary procedure, we had a first reading of the CAP a few days ago and you wouldn't believe it, the article 265 said, "The bank can deny the provision of information that is a banking secret." Well, it was never in the CAP until we had a convention, while Croatia was part of the old state. No one could ever prevent the authorities from finding out what was going on in the bank accounts. But the banks declared themselves financially powerful in the Banks Act a bank secret and declared themselves above the body of criminal proceedings. So the persecution bodies have problems whether the court approves or won't give us information on anyone. So what can we talk about? So, at the same time as we adopt this convention, satisfied with it, really excellent instrumentation and in some way a country's guidance on how to fight this evil, we are paralleling laws that are pure obstruction, or that is not seen to be so, because in practice they were instruments or solutions that did not satisfy. But we haven't even had a bank secret so far. We're setting it up now. Well, the Code of Criminal Procedure is an organic law. It's after the Constitution maybe the most important law... So do we. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, according to the law of the Proposed Law on concessions, the first reading where concessions are secret has passed. Well, these are the revenues of the public budget, and these are all very important provisions here and mentioned in an effective fight against washing... temporary and temporary confiscation of revenue obtained by criminal offence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's not forget that we in basic behavior, that in the Penal Code, we don't have a punishment for the Colloquial termed "Crime Laundering" that it was done in the conclusion. Question, what will the Constitutional Court do? We acted as a SDP club at the Constitutional Court. Of course we're waiting in line, and we'll probably get the answer that it's become immaterial, because it's going to change the law. So the question is, what's going to happen to these rare cases of processing? So these are the serious things they're warning us about, if we can't stay silent about what they're about and about these solutions. The law on criminal proceedings, therefore, is a fundamental law implementing these conventions. Therefore, in view of the second reading, Article 265 which states that the bank may deny the provision of information which is a banking secret, and we here based on this convention that we will ratify, we have a statement in Article 18 of the obligation as a country that provides information about bank transactions where, by the request of the other party, we have an obligation. the requested parties, we must provide information on those bank accounts and banking operations. We mean, I'm sorry, but it's a banking secret with us. So this convention obliges us that it can't be a banking secret. Here speaking for the club, colleague Leko apostropheated, and especially our office to fight money laundering. So does anyone even know where that office is hiding and what his social role is? We've never heard a report in ten years, in twelve years of existence, a report from that office. And when we were looking for some data, where there was a suspicion that foreigners were buying some companies, so logically, if they were to check out our people, our citizens, we see where they came from and whose capital they came from. Especially with the defeating MONEYWALL report. However, we have never received a report, but it has been said to be a secret. In the same way, although there was no legal stand, at least so far it was not, but now it is intended to introduce such a secret in the concession law, the citizens, the journalists of the concessionaires' data, sought information on the amounts of concession fees, the deadline, the area of concession, the subject of concession. Suddenly they got the answer that it was a secret, because it was declared secret by the special regulation by the minister in charge. Something that wasn't possible. But now, if we pass such a law, it will be possible. Therefore, seriously, it is not enough to just raise hands, mechanically vote and confirm this Council of Europe convention on money laundering, search and temporary withdrawal, because they will follow, therefore, what is happening. It is not possible to deceive them that we have passed this convention without even making laws contrary to the obligations of this Convention. So I am especially warning about this because these laws, i.e. the proposals of the law, continue to exist. So they're on the agenda and they're on the procedure. It's not just some laws that have been passed long ago, so we need to change them, but we're putting up with them here as a proposal, and here's the motion for this bill, and it's a bill that's completely different, but the opposite of what this Convention of the Council of Europe requires is resolved. So, please, here are the seriously proposed representatives to look at these proposals of laws that are not otherwise bad, but if there are no these mechanisms, then everything else falls into the water, that the second reading is no longer brought into the law, but that it is removed and that this Convention of the Council of Europe is truly respected, which I believe everyone will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14429	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14430	Well, here, Mr. Vice President, I'd just be referring to my colleague, a little bit of that subject perhaps elaborated further on the relationship between the other laws to the convention. If we remember the conversion and privatisation, then we have to say that a good part of that process was not possible without the megawashing of money. Also, if you take a walk in the city and look at some people and ask them where they get certain shiny cafes and so some other real estate and property, you can't find a rational answer. And as long as there is no will in Croatia to ask people, where did you turn that and or buy it and open this and that, all these laws will not benefit much, although I have to say that the writers of some laws, and in particular I would say the Penal Code, were partly held by the lottery-turned crime, allowing them to perform obsolete and failing to take away the property benefit as it was, for example, solved by the Irish model. Here and now, and in this new Law on the Prevention and Laundering of Money, there are few holes in the emotional character, which we would say, for example, a ban on cash transactions, but not limited, or an extended transaction of a natural person to a natural person, but a ban only applies to legal and natural persons performing a certain registered activity, which I also think is a serious hole in all those holes that we have in the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14431	Thank you. Let's move on. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14432	Well, it's good for my colleague Josipovic to do exactly what I wanted to particularly apostrophe, but that didn't pass the time, especially if we adopt, and hopefully we want this convention, then there are our obligations as states to question all assets that are on illegal income, whose illegal income has been converted or replaced. So, if that property from that original, suspicious battery was converted into something else, it was not replaced by a clue. However, it falls under Article 5 of freezing and temporary confiscation and such property. And he speaks well of his colleague Josipovic. It seems that no one was interested, and yet no one is interested, that such persons are primarily unemployed, enough of those persons who have such an impressive property, are either unemployed or if they are employed by some job serves them to cover up their real activities. And by revenue, they couldn't buy a doghouse, let alone everything else. So these are serious things that are not enough just to ratify, but here unless they're seriously involved in the Office for the Prevention and Laundering of Money, and if we in the ZKP won't give authority to those law enforcement bodies, then we'll block them with the banking secret later, then the whole story will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14433	Thank you. And distinguished representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14434	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of Europe has worked long enough to adopt this Convention. This was preceded by a series of discussions and reports on the committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So here I have to say on behalf of this Croatian Parliament and the delegation between 2000 and 2003 I worked on a political committee report to reduce to a simple message the financing of persons, the financing of extreme parties and movements in the service of terrorism, etc. So that's one topic that's very important. It is extremely important for the functioning of our system. And here she comes right three months after the government accepted the convention coming to the Parliament. I think it could have come before and it could have been part of some debates and some other laws. What do we have here? We actually have conditions in which we know that such cases as the convention is talking about and we are passing a law that necessarily requires a new law and changes in the new law and we are actually entering a legal space. It's a legal space because we've adopted the convention, there's no debate about it, we don't accept it, we accept the law, and now it's asking other laws to apply it. When that application, Mr. Secretary-General, I think we should get an answer here. When it is in the process of amending the relevant laws that will actually enable the implementation of the Convention after we adopt this bill and when it will be in the process, because otherwise it is all another nice gesture. This is what the European Union hates not to implement today. It doesn't change much of our criteria, but it doesn't. It is therefore important that this law be, that the amendments to the Penal Code be presented very quickly to this home. What I also want to say is in relation to certain parts of the law and institutions that will deal with it and organisations. It's an education expert, it's like we had in the case of human trafficking. It was also necessary to educate the police force, and to say so, and the judges, in fact, that people in the process of such a criminal procedure are not themselves criminals. So, in that sense, I guess it also provides for funds. Those aren't small funds. That's a lot of money. That's something to take care of. Secondly, what will be missed by our citizens is expected to hear if something has happened under some law. It is our duty to citizens and citizens. They'll say there's corruption, there's money laundering, there's extremism, but nobody's worried about it. We haven't heard of it in the Parliament one report that has its own from A to G. We've heard of it in part. Well, something's not going to be allowed, so something's going to make it impossible and it's not good. Here, in this sense, I will certainly vote for this bill, but I would like him to have that implementation part and then have a real reflex on what's going on. And what I would like to warn the Council of Europe about was of great concern when it adopted this Convention, which is simply what it is today, and it is a pretext of all conventions aimed at limiting what is terrorism, which is money laundering, which is a prerequisite for creating riots, is a question of human rights and those laws that will concern those who violate the law do not violate human rights of those who are easily involved in such debates. This is a very sensitive issue and should be taken into account, before we are still on the European Union's border today, on the border of the Schengen regime, on a variety of routes where the elements contained in this Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, Temporary Substantiation and Substantiation of revenue obtained by criminal acts and on the financing of terrorism pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14435	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14436	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like first of all to thank all clubs and MPs because they have all really shown unreserved support to the law on the validation of this Convention. And fundamentally, by confirming this Convention, we are taking on ourselves very important obligations to regulate our regulatory system for one co-operation with all the countries of the European Union and regarding these adverse phenomena that are indeed not only our problem but also the problem of the European Union. I just want to say that, and within the framework of the existing European Convention, our bodies are working together with the bodies of the European Union. Whether our results are satisfactory, whether they may be greater or not is really a matter of law enforcement and the work of assessing these state bodies. But what we can do when we combine all data back a few years is definitely see that exactly what is regulated by this convention, which is the question of freezing property that was created as a consequence of these crimes, that we have achieved significant results here. Here, last year, let's say the value of this property was significantly higher than it was a few years ago. Our USKOK results are also significantly better than they were a few years ago. When we look at these crimes related to organised crime, we see that corruption is actually a lot more judgments in these kinds of crimes than it was, so in any case, this is a very important convention that prescribes ways of doing countries within the European Union, where exactly what body in which the country needs to respond and give certain information is stated. Definitely what the colleague has warned that, in any case, an additional analysis of all the laws that have entered into certain areas should be made and, if it is necessary to propose amendments to those laws. However, our current law, of course, will be, the current Law on Banks and the current Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering allows our bodies to access certain data which is sometimes also in confrontation with that right of the confidentiality of these data. Today, however, there are ways and modes in the Banks Act based on the current conventions of how these data can be obtained. Definitely, this convention will require that we do a further analysis and see where the changes are needed. As you have seen, the Code of Criminal Procedure is a very significant law in the first reading. Until the second reading, we certainly have plenty of time to install certain things that are related to this. Thank you again for supporting this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14437	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14438	24. Final proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, Suspension and Abduction of revenue obtained by criminal act and on the financing of terrorism. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. number 132. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching, Suspension and confiscation of revenue obtained by the criminal act on the financing of terrorism. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was adopted unanimously with 131 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14439	Moving to point 12. - Proposal for a law on agricultural land, first reading, P.Z. No. 124 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Kuterovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14440	Here's Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will briefly present to you this proposal for a law on agricultural land that we bring through a regular procedure and which we wish to see all together and through your discussion with your proposals include and that this law finally becomes as high-quality as possible. When we talk about a constitutional basis now for this, the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 2(4) of Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The total area of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia according to the 2005 statistics 2 million 695 thousand and 037 hectares of which 890 thousand hectares are owned by the state and owned by a million and 804 thousand or 67%. Today, the Agricultural Land Act, which was adopted in 2001 and with certain amendments and additions in 2005, is in force. Today's law mainly refers to the availability of state agricultural land, and the availability through the law is defined in a way that municipalities and cities bring the programmes for agricultural land to their areas. The same programmes shall be subject to the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and shall include all land in that area, in the area of the municipality or in the area of the city. So far, it has received 342 programmes and covers 531,000 hectares of agricultural land or 60% of total agricultural land owned by the state. The application of the law has shown that there are also a number of obstacles that slow down this process of available code, through the sale of leases and concessions. To date, it has been sold to agricultural land programmes for sale of 222,000 454 thousand hectares, of which 34 thousand 853 hectares or 16% of the plan has been sold. For the lease, 117 thousand 064 hectares are foreseen, of which so far has been leased 58 thousand or 50%. For the concession, 123 thousand 905 hectares are scheduled and so far is given in a 48 thousand concession of 384 or 40% of the total planned. Total contracts concluded are for 269 thousand 509 hectares. On the basis of contracts concluded before 2001, another 7 thousand 223 thousand hectares are used. On the basis of the service of 4 thousand 339 and on the basis of an agreement to regulate relations with each other, another 2 thousand 884 thousand hectares, so that the total area of agricultural land is owned by the country so far. Agricultural, private agricultural land has so far not been regulated by a special regulation but has been subject to general rules governing ownership and the result of this application is the constant depletion of production areas and land by the agricultural holding. We also have a particular problem with the non-use of agricultural areas for agricultural production. This law should regulate the restriction on the availability of agricultural land, the protection of the use of land use, the establishment of an information system of agricultural land, the availability of agricultural land and the availability of fishers owned by the State, the availability of unprocessed agricultural land, the establishment of an Agricultural Land Agency, the transport of private agricultural land, administrative and inspection controls as well as criminal provisions. In part of the restrictions owned by agricultural land, we have more clearly defined agricultural land and, within the meaning of this law, it is considered agricultural areas, oranica, meadows, gardens, pastures, orchards, olive groves, vineyards, ponds, reeds as well as other land that can be brought into agricultural production. Agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. She has her special protection. And land ownership rights holders cannot be foreign legal and natural persons unless the international contract sets out otherwise. In the part of the protection of the use of the change in the purpose of agricultural land, permanent monitoring of the state of pollution of agricultural land is carried out with harmful substances and means the institution of the Land Office is appointed to perform monitoring and monitoring activities of agricultural soil pollution. The conditions for changing the purpose of agricultural land have been strengthened, and the purpose of the change is considered to be the exploitation of sand, gravel, stone, clay, surface spears and the creation of landfills, the construction of buildings within the meaning of specific laws and the change of purpose is carried out for non-agricultural purposes in accordance with spatial order documents and other regulations establishing the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The amount of compensation for the change of purpose is defined as the difference in the value of agricultural land, building land and in the case of particularly valuable agricultural land, etc. P1 and P2 classification of the level of change of purpose is double the market value, the difference between the agricultural and construction land market price. Cases have been established where no change of purpose is paid, who brings a solution and on the basis of which acts and the fee is the revenue of the agency that these funds should be used for the purpose of maintaining and regulating agricultural land in the areas of units of local self-government where these funds are collected. The fee is paid towards the surface of the building particle. With the establishment of the agricultural land information system, we propose the establishment of a central system formed on the basis of catastra data and its main database is a system for the identification of land particles, so-called land particles. Elpis, and central system also contains data on the availability of agricultural land, state and monitoring and protection of land. It is prescribed who participates in the maintenance of this system and the minister in charge will specifically regulate the way in which the system is set up, content and maintenance. In the part of the agricultural land available, agricultural land owned by the State shall be leased, in concession and sold, to legal and natural persons on the basis of the programme. Prior to the adoption of the unit of local self-government programme, they cannot dispose of agricultural land owned by the state, and agricultural land owned by the state is sold, leased by a public tender. Exceptionally, by invitation to tender, agricultural land owned by a State can be sold by direct contract at a double market price only in exceptional cases established by this law. The decision to sell by direct contract shall be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry. In order to be more successful, to speed up sales, leases and concessions, we speed up the procedure and we abolish some of the consent in the process of sales and leases. More clearly, priorities are identified, as well as target groups of agricultural economies, as considered an independent, family and mixed family holding. Physical and legal persons shall have the primary right to purchase according to the law laid down in order, provided they accept the highest price offered by any bidder that meets the tender conditions, to offer an economic programme for the use of agricultural land. The offer is considered invalid if the highest price in the tender exceeds the double amount of the initial price. The tax administration shall determine the initial price of the tender for the sale or lease of agricultural land owned by the State, which is the average market price in the area where the land is located. Agricultural land in the country is leased for about 25 years, for olive groves for 50 years. Concessions for the use of agricultural land shall be given for 50 years. Agricultural land owned by a country for which the use of the concession day cannot be leased or sub-conceived and agricultural land is awarded in a public tender concession. The call decision is made by the Ministry. The decision to award a concession shall be taken by the Ministry on a proposal from the Commission for the award of concessions, with the prior opinion of the mayor of the unit of regional self-government in which the land is located. The Commission for the award of concessions shall appoint the Government on a proposal from the Minister. The order of the primary right to tender for a concession for agricultural production has been established, and the tax administration determines the initial level of agricultural land. The assets resulting from the sale of leases or concessions are the income of the Agricultural Land Agency and the units of local self-government. Agricultural land purchased by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation will be placed in the function of agricultural production through the Agricultural Land Agency. So far, there has been no quality arrangement for fish stocks owned by the state, and we are trying to make these proposed legislations clearer, so that we have defined the pond as a unique technological unit that represents agricultural land for special purposes and the ponds are placed in concession for up to 50 years. Priorities in the pond competition are also foreseen here. We propose to pastures and meadows owned by the Republic of Croatia in protected areas that there is a public institution in whose area of protection the land in question is located in accordance with the general acts and specific regulations in force, which are valid. Equipped agricultural land. The obligation of the owner and the authorisation holder to keep the land fertile and to process them in accordance with good agricultural practice is prescribed. Penalties for the non-processing of land are prescribed, and agricultural land owned or owned by the Republic of Croatia which has not been processed during the previous vegetative period can be leased to a natural or legal person for up to three years, with the remuneration of the lease to the owner of the land. This procedure is also detailed. We propose, by proposing this law, the establishment of a Agricultural Land Agency for the implementation of environmental and agricultural land management operations. We suggest establishing an agency as a specialised public institution. It would make its resources available to the Agency under this law, i.e. from the state budget, to carry out its activities from other sources in a manner and under the conditions laid down in the instrument of establishment and statute. The Agency may purchase agricultural land owned by legal and natural persons for the purpose of rounding up agricultural holdings. He has the right to buy first place for agricultural land offered by the owners for sale, and the land is bought on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. This law, statutes and other general acts of the Agency shall be governed by this law, statutes and other general acts of the Agency. Agricultural land purchased by the agency does not enter the available programmes. It shall be open to the Agency in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the Statutes and other general acts of the Agency. In part of the transport of private agricultural land, we suggest that in this law, we regulate sales, the lease of private agricultural land. A procedure has been established where the owner of the agricultural land intends to sell its agricultural land, and according to the priorities set out in this law, it is prescribed who has the right to buy first, provided that he accepts the highest price offered. Administrative inspection controls have defined the takeover of agricultural land supply operations from units of local self-government which do not bring about a programme of availability and carry out procedures in accordance with the provisions of this law, and the sale of concessions on agricultural land will begin until the entry into force of this law if a tender for sale, lease and concession has been announced will be completed under the provisions of this old Agricultural Land Act. By implementing this law, we expect the introduction of greater discipline in the purpose of agricultural land, the establishment of a core of agricultural economies, the start of the process of rounding up agricultural holdings from private agricultural land funds, increased transport to private land, and the establishment of an information system will improve the overall management of agricultural land. Only speeding up the availability of state agricultural land should also be the result of the application of the new law. Fishermen through this one, through the concession should provide a long-term basis for further development and operation of this production, and the establishment of the agency will speed up the process of rounding up as well as the overall land availability processes. We propose funds in the state budget for the implementation of this law in 2008, and funds are also provided for the establishment and start of the Agency for Agricultural Land. Here, I have briefly tried to explain the draft law on agricultural land, so please, through the debates and you help us to edit this law in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14441	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14442	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land as a home working body. The debate expressed satisfaction that law enforcement will ensure the protection of agricultural land as state and national wealth, as well as putting it into office. In fact, this bill includes both state and private agricultural land. It also stressed the importance of setting up the Agricultural Land Agency as a specialised public institution that would ensure better quality conditions for the functioning of the agricultural land market in view of the negative experience when agricultural land possessions were carried out only by local self-government units and there were objections that the impact had had nepotism, bribery and corruption. It is also commended that the total of the laws is at the same time ensured by the circulation of agricultural holdings for more economic exploitation, the increase of the agricultural land used and the function of the unused agricultural land so far. The problems raised in the debate are the harmonisation of land-based and cadastrian records with a real situation on the ground, as well as the resolution of the problem of state land under the rule of the Croatian Forests. It is sometimes in most areas agricultural land, and it is possible to bring it to agriculture, which is an highlighted problem in the Mediterranean area. The importance of not allowing the cadastrian land particles to be shared in private ownership is highlighted, but the question has been raised whether only this provision will be resolved so far by a non-adequate legislation that regulates the inheritance of agricultural land or whether it needs to be ensured by amendments and other laws, such as the Law on Property and other real rights and the Law on Inheritance. It is necessary to take care of the return of agricultural land taken from owners during the communist era. It is necessary to provide for and allocate agricultural land for return. The opinion was expressed that it would be good to analyse the situation of former land communities' assets as well as to consider the need for the adoption of the Law on Land Communities. It is pointed out that in this proposal the three categories of agricultural holdings differ. A family agricultural holding, an independent family holding and a mixed agricultural holding. On the other hand, the Agriculture Act distinguishes the agricultural economy and the rural economy or the family agricultural economy. It would be good to consider the possibility that the laws only regulate the agricultural economy as the form in which agricultural production is produced, i.e. not to stress the difference between legal and natural persons, but to ensure that the agricultural holding can be competitively produced by technology, size, multifunctionality. In the part of the bill on fines, the opinion is expressed that there are too little differences in penalties for legal and natural persons and that penalties should be tied to the surface. Namely, it is not the same if it is an unprocessed large or small area of agricultural land. The debate expressed satisfaction that this important law is being discussed in two readings. The Committee members agreed to hold a thematic session on the Draft of the Final Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, having regard to and at its disposal to the negotiating positions relating to accession negotiations in Chapter 11 – Agriculture and rural development, as well as to the starting point for a negotiating platform with the European Union, or to a moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners from at least 12 years after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. After the debate was held, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: 1. Proposal for a law on agricultural land and 2. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14443	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And the first one is on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that this Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land is a strong step above all in the section of the protection of agricultural land as a national wealth that this law should in one part and speed up the process of making agricultural land owned and also contribute to the process of rounding up agricultural land as one of the necessary assumptions for competitive agricultural production. Today, at the level of the European Union's common agricultural policy, particularly in the most developed countries of the European Union, it attaches great importance to sustainable agricultural production, particularly because of the uncontrolled exploitation of agricultural land, the maximum use of chemistry in the function of maximising profits in certain countries, not only has the value of agricultural land been violated, but there has also been significant pollution of the environment. As a result, some European Union countries have introduced even a system of providing support for non-treatment of agricultural land, and also within the scope of, above all, to rest the land, and also within the framework of the common agricultural policy, organic production and support in the form of single payments per farm, so where the primary objective is no longer exclusively the primary objective of increasing production clearly shows the direction towards Croatia, so this is sustainable agricultural production and protection of agricultural land as a national wealth. Today, it is often said that we want to ensure the profitability and competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, ensure that agricultural and food industries are equally competitive in the markets of the European Union. However, in order to implement these objectives with all the measures taken to reform the restructuring of Croatian agriculture from the change in the support system, to increase the agricultural budget to the implementation of a series of operational programmes, it is necessary to address the problem of agricultural land and, above all, to speed up the process of availability to agricultural land owned and secondly, it is necessary to speed up the activities on the rounding up of agricultural land and reaching European Union standards, so according to the number of hectares, according to the user, at least 20 hectares. Therefore, it is necessary to speed up the process of availability to agricultural land owned by a state that has not always gone to the desired dynamics, partly because of the laws and models for which we have defined ourselves, and partly because of the lack of administrative capacity of certain municipalities, and where there has been intentional obstruction where, in fact, by postponing the implementation of the programme without competition and by extending the one-year lease contracts, it has somehow played the law and favoured individuals. Secondly, it is necessary to speed up the activities on the rounding up of agricultural land and the achievement of European Union standards due to the inherited problem of small areas of property, on average below 3 hectares, a large number of small and technological unrelated and remote parcels has been questioned by the rentability, the competitiveness of our producers. I will try to illustrate this, the last time we talked about pilots of agricultural land mining projects that the Croatian Government conducted in cooperation with the Swedish Government, I read data for individual countries, the situation in 1955 and the situation in 2003, and so in England in 1955 there were 26.5 hectares on average per agricultural producer, while in 2003. 68, so more than double. In Sweden 14.2 hectares in 55, 2003. 42 hectares per manufacturer, so three times the increase in France 12 hectares 55, 2003. 36 acres, so also three times the increase. Croatia 1955. 3.5 hectares, and 2003. 2.4 acres. So just one reverse process and these data actually best illustrate what our heritage was and what our position is in relation to European agricultural powers such as France, England, Germany, Italy. It should be said that the average area of agricultural property per user per producer is in fact one of the key indicators of the competitiveness of agriculture and that Croatia, in this sense, carries the burden of the past system, agricultural reforms, land maximums and also the unresolved problem of inheriting land, which, in particular, in Slavonia and Baranja, has caused an increase in the number of parcels and additional depletion of land. The Croatian Democratic Community Club therefore welcomes the fact that Article 31 says that agricultural land owned by a natural person cannot be shared in the succession process, but also since the first reading of the law, we suggest that the applicant further consider this provision in order to see how it is processed, perhaps this requires, as the Committee on Agriculture has proposed, and to amend some other laws, so that this good purpose of this law and this article is further regulated in order to make it easier to implement it in reality. What is good and what is happening in practice is the fact that entrepreneurs in agriculture who buy land and round up land to increase production, to carry out the rounding process themselves in a certain way and to speed up the process themselves. However, we believe that an important role should be played by the state, so the Croatian Democratic Community club welcomes the establishment of a Agricultural Land Agency whose primary role would be to round up agricultural land, but also to play an active role in the agricultural land market and logistics for our agricultural producers, means the owners of agricultural land in solving property problems on agricultural land. It should be recalled that the Croatian government has been in the past term, the process continues, so it has implemented and launched several operational programmes in agriculture that have been the main and fundamental objective of a series of incentives measures to shift agricultural production from extensive to high income intensive, which should bring higher income to our producers and which should make our potentials more profitable, we think on land as well. This applies primarily to operational programmes for the raising of permanent plantations, irrigation programmes, operational programmes for the development of livestock production, construction of new storage facilities, etc. These operational programmes form the backbone of agricultural policy, aimed at production where we record large imports that will be the subject of negotiations and quotas with the European Union, but which also bring the biggest income to producers. But the key problem for producers in their implementation was just land and land policy. If we had eventually resolved the privatisation process, i.e. the general process of agricultural land availability, these programmes would have produced much greater results. The country has often been a limiting factor of entrepreneurship in agriculture. It should also be taken into account the fact that the law, therefore, and this current and this new proposal that regulated this area, that as detailed as it is, as far as it is worked out, cannot recognise all life situations. Therefore, it is necessary not only to adopt this law and go into its application but it is necessary that at all levels from the government, the ministries to tell officials in that smallest municipality or city, each one assumes its share of responsibility and understands the actual importance of this project and the implementation of this law as a national interest. Since the first reading of the law is, namely the Croatian Democratic Community club, it believes that the provisions of Article 70 of this proposal should be reviewed, where the availability of private agricultural land is regulated, which we welcome, therefore, that this area should be regulated, because it is also important in the agricultural land rounding project. What's right is that the agency appears in these tenders, buys land from privates and simply manages in a way, directs the process of rounding up. However, it says here that the owner of agricultural land which intends to sell or rent its agricultural land is obliged to submit an offer to the local self-government unit in which the agricultural land is located for the purpose of carrying out the sale or lease process and the notifying agency. We believe that the article needs to be reviewed, that it is potentially questioning the constitutional rights of the owner of agricultural land and that this should be further considered. In addition, the Croatian Democratic Community club, which is related to re-use, therefore the change in the purpose of agricultural land and compensation, considers that Article 26(2) should certainly be reconsidered where it is said that the amount of the compensation is determined in the amount of the real difference in the price of agricultural building land determined by the competent tax administration in the area where the land is located. This is therefore a significant change and a proposal in relation to the existing Article 18, where the land referred to in Article 2(3) of this Act is said to be subject to construction within the meaning of this Act, etc. Where Article 21 is prescribed, the amount of the re-use fee shall therefore be determined in the amount of 5% of the agricultural land market value determined by the relevant tax administration in the area where the land is located. We believe that this is a significant change, so that in some situations, in some municipalities and cities it may even affect development. In some units of local self - government, some areas, therefore, have entered the construction area. They have become economic zones and it is clear that such a drastic difference between fees can even go to deter individual investors. If calculations are made, the prices of re-use could sometimes be over 50% of the investment price. This is especially important for those businessmen who have already entered the project in some way that one such drastic change is now coming that has important financial effects. In this regard, we believe that Article 26(2) should certainly be reconsidered so as not to question certain investments and certain economic projects and, in some ways, to stop development. The Croatian Democratic Community club will therefore support the law in its first reading. We believe that all of these improvements and all of these steps are an important contribution, so as soon as possible and to speed up the process of making agricultural land available, that our agricultural producers can not therefore acquire agricultural land as soon as possible, whether as users, whether as owners, because what has been said today can not therefore be obtained by the foreigners. But it won't last forever either. We're going in. We're in negotiations. The market must therefore be liberalised, and just the transitional period will depend on negotiations, our positions, our experiences, and also the experiences of other countries that entered the European Union in 2004 and 2007. What is our interest, therefore, is that our producers enter the land as soon as possible or become its owners, to round up the property and to come to this situation as farmers and to gain and competitiveness, that they can then compete equally with all other investors in such an open market of the European Union. Therefore, the interest in adopting this law is particularly important, and we consider the introduction of this Land Agency which should also guide the land rounding process as one of the key assumptions in creating competitive production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14445	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14446	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is intensively preparing for accession negotiations with the European Union, as well as in Chapter 11– Agriculture and Rural Development. The crucial importance for the future of Croatian agriculture will be land policy. One of the important issues is how large our farms will compete with European agriculture, or how much land land will be needed for the competition. Croatia is lagging behind the size of agricultural property compared to the European Union, especially with the old members. The average for countries, 27 European Union countries, is more than 10 hectares, but so on, for example. in the UK, this property is larger than 57, Denmark 54, Sweden 46, France almost 46. But there is also a member with significantly smaller property such as Greece which has slightly more than 4 hectares, Italy with slightly more than 6, Portugal 9. Of the new members, the largest average property is owned by the Czech Republic with almost 67 hectares of average property, and the smallest Hungary is slightly more than 5 hectares. The average property in Croatia is below 36 hectares, and in the case of holdings registered in the register of agricultural producers about 5 hectares. However, for the sustainability of the agricultural holding in the European Union, it is not the crucial size of the property, but other market and economic assumptions, of which the organised market performance is particularly isolated. This approach has not been built in Croatia so far, but we are just about to have a process of changing the agrarian structure. The current policy is aimed at increasing and rounding the agricultural area, which will open the restructuring process after which there will be a smaller number of family economy producers to deal with agricultural production in the future. That this is not a simple and cheap process also tells us statistics on the size of household properties and the number of parcels in Croatia. The last list of agricultural households from 2003 registered 448 thousand households that own just over a million and 170 thousand hectares of farmland that have been distributed to nearly 2 million plots of agricultural land. Up to 3 hectares of land owns more than 339 thousand households, while more than 20 hectares own only 5 thousand 250 households, but they are also located on average in almost 14 and a half plots. So, a small number of agricultural households have a somewhat satisfactory size of agricultural property, but it is scattered, consisting of a large number of small, unrelated and remote land particles. A number of agri-technical measures, ranging from melioration, arondation to comassation, should be implemented for the rounding and editing of parcels, and not only the sale of land or the purchase of land. There is also a need to add additional land regulation that needs to be done through irrigation and draining. The problem is that there is no developed market for agricultural land in Croatia, as private owners rarely decide to sell land. Often this is the reason for unresolved and unsettled property relations. The increase in agricultural property by selling the country to state property has a limited potential because the state owns about 20% of the land in the oranic class, while the majority refers to pastures, over 60% of such land. Therefore, we believe that the state land that is surrounded and arranged, often drenched, should be carefully managed and evaluated at what point to go for sale because it is today the most valuable property the state has and should not be allowed to sell out. Agriculture land policy is a very complex political, social and economic issue. In the short term, we must make decisions on the time of return of the property which goes quite slowly, on the acceleration of demining, and this is also a slow process, on ways of rounding and regulating land and other decisions. For example. In 2001, a country-owned agricultural land management strategy was adopted. Land policy is defined to include the agricultural land market, state-owned land, land consolidation and land protection, denationalisation, draining, demining and others. Little or no, we haven't realized any of it. It is not enough to bring new strategies without analysing previous results. Tax bonds allocate significant resources for support in agriculture and must know the results and economics of their spending. In the SDP, we advocate that the management of state land as a whole is managed by the Agricultural Land Management Agency, i.e. land revenues are used to raise the quality of agricultural land. We are committed to the speedy implementation of the catasters and land books related to state land, and to the financing of this process takes over throughout the country. We give the advantage in the management of state land to long-term concessions of up to 50 years, with favourable financial conditions, especially for the productions that are missing from Croatia. The proposal for a new Agricultural Land Act is assessed by a good basis for discussion. The protection, use and change of the purpose of agricultural land, the transport of agricultural land and administrative inspection shall be well regulated, and appropriate arrangements shall be made for the availability of state agricultural land. Yet, we have several observations and suggestions, or suggestions, that is, the need for some solutions to be made clear or processed by another reading. Thus, in Article 2 where the restriction on the acquisition of ownership over agricultural land of foreign and natural persons is mentioned, we should actually have an answer, is it possible to define it that way, because there is only a matter of time before we start negotiations and on what deadline we can have in such a provision. Articles 31 and 32 define family economies, an independent family economy, and a mixed family economy while the Agriculture Act defines the agricultural holding and the agricultural holding as the roof law. These two laws should be harmonised or we may intend to amend the Agriculture Act, but then we should say so. Article 45 refers to the lease of agricultural land for 25 years, and only for olive groves can the lease be up to 50 years. In fact, we advocate to keep the lease up to 25 years, but as it is later defined as 50 years old on a 50-year term, then this lease should actually be thrown out for 50 years, because it is actually a concession as defined in Article 54. Article 55 defines a concession procedure which does not comply with the Law on concessions, and in Article 10 thereof, and we adopted that law a few days ago in the Assembly which prescribes the appointment of an expert commission from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law, economy and technical professions, depending on the subject of the concession, and that members of the commission should not be in conflict of interest, and this article should be brought into line with Article 10. The concession law. Article 68 defines the rounding up of agricultural land in a way that encircles it in the process of buying, replacing and renting, but we believe that other agrotechnical measures should be added, i.e. the arondation process and the process of compromise. It also provides for a ban on the distribution of catastrian particles of private-owned agricultural land, unless such consent is given by the agency. We warn of the need to give an answer to another reading, whether it is necessary to change other laws such as the Inheritance Act, because it is actually the most common reason to split agricultural parcels. And we warn of an article in the 70s that introduces a certain type of first-ever agricultural land by the state. What that means is actually in relation to free availability of property and to clarify that by the second reading as well. We support the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency, but we believe that it should also play a more active role in the lease, commissioning and selling of state-owned agricultural land compared to local self-government units, as experience so far has shown that there are a lot of negativeities in these businesses, such as: nepotism, even suspected corruption, are frequent complaints filed here to the council committees, for example. and criminal applications for concessions, etc. I think that this way we might do better. Local self-government units often do not have enough professional people to do this job in quality. In view of the value of agricultural land, that is, its future financial value, we believe that the state should not be easily resolved by such assets as is defined by our Constitution as property of particular national interest. The advantage should be 50-year concessions with favourable financial conditions for production which are of strategic interest, which reduce imports or increase exports. We support the introduction of penalties for abandoned or polluted land, but we suggest that their height be reassessed for legal and physical persons here are almost the same. Namely, the height of the penalty should also be conditioned by the size of an abandoned, abandoned or polluted area. It doesn't matter if it's 100 acres or less than a hectare or half a hectare. Surely there are legal persons, they have far larger surfaces and more often have larger surfaces and unprocessed ones. We expect these remarks to be considered, partially and respected until the second reading, and our club will support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14447	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. Next comes the debate on behalf of the SDSS club, Honorary Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14448	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. And we agree that this is about a step forward and I think it's about a desirable step, simply because it's about an important social wealth that can't be activated. I'll say a few things here to pay attention to until the final draft of the law. But before that, what's good is good. It is good that there is regulation on the care and availability of agricultural land because we have not had it properly so far because of what I said before and what is said here because it is an important resource. Further land is treated as good of general interest because it actually is without exception. The idea on which the law is based should help to establish order in this area, which is also desirable. And what I think is, as an idea, the most important thing is this law should help use agricultural land as a resource in the best possible way. Now, a few things that deserve attention and to which attention should be paid in making a final proposal. First of all, this issue is made of an information system. The law provides for a full information record of the amount of land and how they are used. The fact that you will have some kind of x-ray that will contain the full amount of that land and how it is available or not. What I think should be kept in mind is that I think it can be done on the basis of the records that are in the land books. It can be done on the basis of the records that the catastres have and can be done on the basis of some insight into the situation on the ground. It won't be good if the records are based only on one data simply because there's a danger of getting a record that won't be consistent with the state of life and the state of the field. This primarily refers to land-book records because at least in some of the environments that I know land-books are in complete range with what's in life. The castration record is much more up-to-date, but there may be problems, and if we were to enter that record in a pattern, then we would delete some owners or some owners or some people who claim to be owners and, in fact, by all living situations, yes, but they won't be in that record because of the great delays in that record. I think it's very important there I don't know how to enroll in the law that records must be done patiently, that people who use land or who are in the Catastrian, who are the owners to give people an opportunity to plead before they finally enter that data into the records. It won't be good if we want to do it quickly. And if because of the hard work that's not going to work out for us, we somehow break it up in fact and then we create a record that will sort of be a suspension of what's really a state of nature. It's important, it doesn't say in the law, but it may not have to be written in the law, but the creation of records and the change of relationships that it wants to do so must be publicly promoted, it must seem gradual, and it takes time to live. Simply, landowners, agricultural land owners, even people on the ground need to know what they want to do and what's going on on the ground. The second thing I want to emphasize here, which seems to me to be worth the attention, is this issue of maintenance and land protection. The obligation that land must be processed and maintained in its capacity, not to be rooted, not to be polluted is quite ok. That's what needs to be pursued, and that commitment makes sense, but I think it should be borne in mind that this commitment for a large number of people on the ground is huge because if we don't do it once and for all, it's always in sync with the purpose of bringing it in so that what we're doing is beneficial. I say that because in a large part of Croatia we do not somehow have the general conditions that we are processing agricultural land or that we have created conditions for people whose land it is or whose land it is or who have mastered that the circumstances and facts are such that they can, without delay, process every square meter and that it is worth it to them. You have many situations that are actually at the limit of cost-effectiveness or not worth it, and then people are in great trouble to process it and bring it to a point, and it will be a big problem to meet these conditions that are here in the bill of law. It would be best to process the land and to maintain land according to the criteria given here in the law but not under the burden of sanctions, not under the burden of punishment, but with the motive that there is an expression of interest to do so. Why is it important to pay attention here? Because it takes reasonable time for conditions to be created and the owners to prepare to fulfill what we ask them to do, to process the earth, not to be rooted, simply to take care of it. The third thing that's about what I just said. We have large areas that are unprocessed and that needs to be changed. And what the law says here and what makes people change it is fine. However, the bill states: "if not processed during the previous vegetative period, the ideas of the law should immediately be taken." Right now, the competition, right next door, right now, rent, immediate concession, or I don't know, sells right away. That if this thing is being carried out in this way, then I'm kind of experiencing it as a kind of a agricultural revolution. We don't, I don't think we're able to do this quickly without doing a lot of damage to people who own and through the atmosphere that's going to be, the atmosphere of dissatisfaction that's going to produce it. Here, what is said here by my predecessors about this offer to the sales agency I join the opinion that it is a restriction of freedom of land and I think that, I agree that this solution as described in this proposal is not good and should be modified. Because it's certainly a matter of some kind of firm condition that the agency has the advantage of buying whether it's the first purchase right, whether it's some other variants, but I don't see why the agency would have as much advantage as it was given in this proposal. The fourth thing is, these penalties are prescribed for this unprocessed, unsettled, impeccable and so on. It also says that it is done if it has not been done previously or processed in the previous vegetative period. Many situations where the facts and circumstances are such that people are not able to respond to this request whether it is an ageing household, whether it is invaluable, whether it is a return space, whether it is a number of transition situations that have not been dealt with for objective reasons. And now if we don't respect these facts and these circumstances, then we cut off the maximum penalties that we are, which are prescribed in this proposal, I think it's going to be dragon penalties that will produce injustice and that we haven't previously respected the circumstances that we now have. I think there should also be a permanent transition period and that the law should respect the circumstances and facts that we have in real life on the ground. Because otherwise it's going to happen that we've come up with provisions whose applicability is questionable and so if you can't apply something then it's like you've got it wrong. It's simply that some environments have demographic deficits, have a development deficit and actually have a deficit of good conditions for their land to have according to what's written in this law. We have to solve those deficits, and then we'll get into a situation where this one will be, this law will be applicable, and we won't actually make a repression against the country's owners. I hope some of these suggestions can be remembered and can be incorporated into the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14449	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14450	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In his presentation, Gajica actually misread the role of the Agricultural Land Management Agency and called this form in the article against the constitution. I think we all agree that agricultural land is a national good. In this way, we must deal with it, and it is clearly defined here that the agency has the right to buy first all private agricultural land but at the highest price offered, which means that in principle it will not be discriminated against by any bidder but if it is something that is national good, then, of course, the state should have any influence in whose hands it comes in. And I would also like to look back on this part of the unprocessed agricultural land where colleague Gajica pointed out that the circumstances should be respected and adapted. I think that for years it has been respected that in some parts of Croatia, especially in areas of special state care, some people simply do not live and do not want to live that agricultural land to stand unprocessed, that those who wish to expand their possessions cannot expand them. The only way is to regulate, regulate, regulate and punish those who do not want to farm land and for, and the possibility for those who want to rent or sell it to do so through the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14451	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14452	Vice-President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on agricultural land that we have before us at HSS certainly welcome and support because we believe that it is a major step forward, seeing that the existing law that was passed in 2001 could be seen over the past seven years and see all its failures, shortcomings and everything that has certainly prevented the more quality and better implementation of this agricultural law and the end of the availability of agricultural land. I have to say right away in order to talk seriously about the proposal to make agricultural land available, and how do we first of all have to say what kind of agriculture we want? We in HSS have long said that we want peasant agriculture with as many family economies as possible because we believe that they are the backbone and certainly provide one guarantee for the sustainability of agriculture in Croatia and for sure the preservation of our villages. We said that the farm policy some people used to call was not good. It is not good because it would go in the direction that a small number of people deal with this agricultural production, and a large number of people give up on it and, of course, try to seek their life safely somewhere further, and the question is where they will find their existence if we have three to four farmers in one village, and all others should be a hired workforce. Where is Croatia today concerned with agriculture? I will just say a few information related to the incentive to help us understand where Croatia is or where agriculture is located today in Croatia. In 2007, we have about 170 thousand family economies in Croatia, and in 2007 the incentive was paid to 2 billion and 419 million kuna. Of these, 0.1% received 624 million or 25% of these incentives. 0.9% of these producers received a billion and 55 million kuna incentives or 43.6%. What are these numbers telling us? They tell us that today in Croatia, a small number of large producers are getting huge money from the state budget and that it is certainly in great advantage over other family economies or those that are smaller and smaller. This is what is worrying about all of us, and that is what we must certainly arrange to open up space and a path to family economies to be more competitive on their market and that they can certainly be taken into account together with all those who are in a privileged position. When we talk about agricultural land from practice you can see the following. The municipalities and cities that have brought their programme, and these materials show that most of them have brought their own programme, and therefore it can also be seen that a good part of the land has gone through this availability towards sale, according to concession and lease, but what is certainly not satisfactory, which is that a very small number of land has succeeded through this process and sold to family economies. It is certainly a great danger, and we in HSS last year announced if we came into a position that we could change things to change them, of course, with a goal towards better, because it was a danger that the deadlines could expire and that by any chance a part of the agricultural land through this facility would not be sold and that a good part of our family economies would not come into possession through agricultural land. If we look at these figures then it can be seen that for the sale of agricultural land owned by the state, 222,000 454 hectares are foreseen, and so far only 34 thousand 853 or 16% have been sold. If we look at our goal by the end of next year to complete this process, it will certainly require much greater activation and much greater engagement to fulfill all that we want and fulfill. In practice, it has been shown that many people are interested in buying agricultural land. On average, a dozen people or family economies appear when a parcel is going to be sold, and that only shows how interested they are and how much desire they have to come to the property of the country because they can guarantee themselves and give safety to themselves, so that they can deal with agricultural production in the future. We also said in the HSS that our goal is to sell as many surfaces as possible, because we think that whoever comes into possession and who owns his own grant can have better quality and better possession of that land. If we take only that a man who owns it can raise a loan, put a mortgage on that land and can certainly use that land in more ways and for more purposes. If we look at the concession itself, then we must say that some entities have been privileged in that part so far, and the family economies have been in a subordinate position. This law changes this and this law will come into the same position as there will be no more privileged concessions or preferential concessions where some will be entitled to it, and some will not be entitled to that same concession. We think it's right, that everyone should be given equal rights, and that everyone can certainly get into that game equally. I also believe that when it comes to the ownership of agricultural land, one border to which someone can buy agricultural land should still be put. I think it's about 300 acres and we're here and in HSS we're talking about, so it's not good for someone to own thousands of hectares of land and tomorrow if this company comes into trouble and this company is sold then watch out, we get this property owned by that company so what we don't want to happen can happen to us, which is that the foreigners become the owners of our greatest wealth along the woods and the water we have in Croatia. So we think that this part of it should certainly be placed as one limit to which it can go, over it again I repeat, a great danger. This law will certainly simplify through the process of obtaining of course this land through the sale of agricultural land, and it will certainly be fairer. I must say from practice what has been known to happen so far. One case that was recorded with me, it was that a man bought 20 acres, paid about 200 thousand kuna, and within a year he sold that land for 500-600 thousand kuna and slowly put one piece of money in his pocket and said listen, I'm smart because I got rich in speed. With this law, it means that amendments to the law will certainly prevent such things, and it is our goal to prevent certain mixing, to prevent all that is not good, because we are going to be told about the purchase of agricultural land by those who have nothing to do with agriculture. There have been cases like this so far, for, of course, if that country gets its hands on it, it's certainly become a rich man. These are the dangers that have certainly been present so far, but this proposal of course changes that will go, by the proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, absolutely certain that many of the problems and many of the mixings that have been so far will be avoided. The interest of farmers gives us quite sure of the right to say that agriculture should not be stricken as peasant agriculture, because that part of agricultural producers does not have another alternative and they are certainly condemned to be seriously engaged in the production of agriculture itself. I can make a joke and tell a joke and today the food is absolutely certainly at the price and will be at an even higher price. While the Chinese were living off a handful of rice there were no big problems, today when they start to spend much more and milk, much more meat, then all are sure to see certain and disturbances on the world market, and Croatia is not excluded from it. Therefore, there is also a large, large space for us and we need to be aware that food is becoming an increasingly important factor in the overall functioning of this world and we need to seriously start thinking in this direction, and we should not be afraid that family economies or these 100,000 family economies as we know to say or peasant economies can be handled with the support of the country itself. In those figures that I was saying at the beginning, it could be seen that the state was well instigated by agriculture, but of course the question arises whether this money that went went was going into the right hands. I don't want anyone here to think, to attack someone in particular, I have something against someone, I don't have anything, we need big producers and we're absolutely sure in Croatia as bearers of some production and as a guarantee that quality production can take place on these surfaces. But be careful, we still have to understand that we are a Croatian country that has very many villages and has a lot of family economies and that we simply cannot escape from it and that this is our priority. I therefore believe that this law will contribute to the development of our villages, to the development of our family economies, because I believe that these areas that are dealt with by this law will come into the right hands. In the end, that was our goal. And what we want, I have to say here and finally, is that the process ends as soon as possible. I said by the end of next year. We are witnessing that Croatia is at the door of entry into the European Union, we are witnessing that foreigners do not have the right to buy land in our country for 12 years. That's what we're looking for. If we're gonna deal with it, that's the question. But the priority is to finish this job if we can by the end of next year because then a man can be more serious about this production. The Croatian Peasant Party's club is of course supporting this proposal and will vote for it in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14453	Thank you very much. We have an application for a rectification. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14454	I wish I did, but unfortunately, it's not true that with this bill of law, we're going to make it impossible for meddling that was present so far. According to Article 35, the State will be able to continue to sell agricultural land. And as soon as he sells, he no longer prevents that owner from having that property as his real right and does not alienate without any restrictions. Unfortunately, maybe we should intervene here so it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14455	Thank you very much. Next time you log in. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14456	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Everyone praises this law, but I wouldn't exactly join their intention, although I am deeply convinced that the law enforcement is more than positive. I agree that this is agricultural land of general interest, which everyone pointed out. I agree that agricultural land is the key to dealing with agriculture. If someone doesn't have agricultural land, clearly they can't be a farmer. I agree that there is too much unprocessed land in this country, but the fundamental question is how good this law is. How do I put it? Perhaps this law is good for one Slavonia, perhaps this law is good for one Subravina, for one Baranja, for one Međimurje. However, I argue that this law is not good for Istria, it is not good for the Primorsko-goran County, for Dalmatia, so I dare say to Lika, for our islands. That you are looking for a candle today in Istria, Lici, Dalmatia, Gorski kotar for someone to process your country, to pay for it, so that someone simply, there's no way of finding it. There's no one here. He can do you a favor, he can help you, but you'll find someone to process your country very, very hard. On the other hand, I look at a whole series of these young people in Istria who, say after the 1990s, began to deal with agriculture, winemaking, olive growing, pomidors, vegetables, fruit growing, meaning in those 10 and 15 years of farming, I see that they have become extremely wealthy people. I dare say that a good winemaker in Istria can buy, don't literally understand me, literally, half of this Parliament, all of us together. I also know that these people are working so hard, they must have been helped by this story we've been telling in Istria or which we've been preaching for 18 years. They were certainly helped by a state policy in giving or better told by renting or selling agricultural land while it was possible, up until 2000. The second thing I'd like to say is, here in this law is the payment of compensation for unprocessed agricultural land. Imagine one such intention being carried out through legal form and the next day someone in Istria, in Gorski kotar, in Lika, in Zagora, etc. must pay unprocessed agricultural land. I claim that this or such a provision is not good, that on the other side of reason, that such a provision is absolutely wrong, and perhaps it is such a provision and unconstitutional, so maybe one of us will launch a constitutional suit to see if the Constitutional Court is in the same positions that it was in if I'm not wrong somewhere in February or in the 4th month last year when he said not to tax unprocessed agricultural land or when he said not to tax unused property and so on. We're going in this kind of order by this law. Here on the first page, it is said that the application of the law in practice shows that there are many obstacles that slow down the process of availability to agricultural land owned by the state through sales, leases, concessions. It is then stated how much of this was given, or how much of that land was sold, was leased. However, I want to and I'm glad that here he is now a minister, to notice that the Istrians de facto have not been able to buy agricultural land since 2000. Well, I dare say that these people have been kind of scrawny, treated like second-class citizens. The truth is, agricultural land overnight, mainly by urbanization, can turn into a super-rich individual who comes to this wealth in an extremely undeserved way. However, the farmer should also actually be able to buy that agricultural land. What is also at this point in action, let's say in Istria that some leading companies, including from the tourism sector, etc. at this point... for agricultural land in the same way that they once tried to reach tourist land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This must absolutely be prevented as this land cannot be used and in the future without any kuna compensation that these societies should pay towards the state for the use of hundreds and hundreds of hectares, whether agricultural or so. tourist land. What are we up for? First of all, the one who wants to buy the land that he can do, but in case of re-use, if he acquired it, clearly in the state, under the same conditions under which he bought that land back to the state. It's a simple point, not that tomorrow the state is buying that same land by 100, 300, 500, 700, maybe 1,500 times the price it sold to an individual. True, the country generally came through nationalisation, in Istria it was mainly based on the so-called land. options after leaving almost 140 thousand Istrians from their hearths, the fate of their property was a breakthrough for war damage with Italy and it is clear that this land is today a state, but for this reason today in Istria is somewhere more than 30% of the agricultural land owned by the state, which is unique when it comes to Croatian opportunities. What it means is that agricultural land until '93, as we know, was municipal and that was '93. This municipal agricultural land de facto overnight under one legal provision becomes a state, not to say '93, another nationalisation was carried out over agricultural land. Otherwise, what's certainly good is that this law goes into another reading, this is too serious matter to be brought into one reading, and then we go in this sort of order. Article 16(1) speaks of a lease for 3 years, I think it's too short a time period for it to be at least 10 years, it's good that the unit of local self-government is doing it now, but as you imagined my land that I'm not processing is now being given to someone in a three-year lease, and you don't own me before that. I don't think it's exactly in line with the Constitution, and it's certainly one of the most discriminatory norms in this law that I believe have positive and fair intentions. Article 17(1) states that the funds incurred from the lease of private-owned agricultural land must be paid to the owner within 15 days of the involvement in the special account of the municipality, i.e. the city, in accordance with Article 16 of this Act. What I welcome, for example, in this legislative proposal, is an article, say 20th. the formation of disposal services and the like, it must be absolutely accelerated, facilitated. I also think that this Article 26(1) is fine, the fee is paid towards the surface of the building particle of the residential or other buildings except for golf courses where the fee is paid for parts of the building particle on which the construction infrastructure facilities are located. It is clear that without golf and such content, the maximum season in Croatia can last 2.3 months, and if we want to work this season we must extend, as well, and later we will discuss it in the season of people in one Istria, Dalmatia, the coast, on islands in Dubrovnik should not be defended from working on Sundays. However, what to do with a state that on the other hand, gentlemen treats their property as a machehian, which does not kill, say, a fee on tourist land or on agricultural land used by our largest agricultural land, etc. Combine. Article 33 of my deep conviction is inconclusive or inconclusive, pardon de facto we took away the units of local self-government land in '93. and now we ask that they take care of him, and that the state remains, under the quotes "good owner" and collects benefits based on such a practice. Let the state return it first, the state has not worked for it, not that we understand local self-government, the state has nationalized it to someone, so let them take care of it today. The key to the law is in some way this Article 34, sale, lease, concession, what may be the point of the article is also the 35rd paragraph 3 that the decision on the selection of the most favourable offer based on the tenders referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is made by the municipal, or city council, or the Assembly of the City of Zagreb, in whose territory the land is situated, clearly with the consent of the Ministry. So now the decision is made on the most favourable lease, i.e. the sale of the city council, and the ministry gives consent. The lease deadlines of, say 25 are for an oliver, 50 years, I think they're fine, while the 50-year term for the concession seems to be too long and should be the basis of the concession law of 33 years. Article 70, that's the announcement of tenders for sale through a unit of local self-government, something that comes out of me from all legal standards, that I'm not quoting all of that now, I don't think there's any more anywhere in Vietnam, maybe in one Vietnam that the owner of agricultural land that he intends to sell or lease, is obliged to submit an offer to a local self-government unit whose agricultural land is located in order to carry out the lease sale process and the agency for notice and then what this offer contains. However, what I wanted to report most about is this article of the 80th, which literally reads the article a. "that a fine of 10 to 30 thousand kuna will punish a legal person who does not keep agricultural land capable of a agricultural product" but also goes further towards a natural person, etc. For me, let me put it that way, that's something that's out of my mind. So that means that in two or three years, we're going to nationalize all unprocessed agricultural land. Well, there's no such thing as simply nowhere. That I dare say leads to the biggest robbery in the history of the Croatian state. You think that because of these standards, I don't know what agricultural land is going to do anymore. By my deep conviction, these rural areas in the interior of Istria, Dalmatia, Primorje, Lica, islands, etc. will be the most punished. where, as I said, you can't find a cure if you want someone to pay for someone to work someone's land. Finally, who does these fines from 10 to 30 thousand kunas etc. Can he even pay? I think it's a new nationalisation, which I'm sure in these elections did not advocate the HDZ that has the majority in this House, I'm surprised that one consensus and HDZ and HSS and SDP are being achieved there, and I think tomorrow someone will also introduce a tax on apartment, house, processed land, and it's certainly not one perspective policy. And what should certainly be looked at is what is with this Article 31st paragraph 4 where it is said about the inheritance of agricultural land, where a partialisation cannot be carried out in favour of it. I think it's pitching, okay. I don't think the same thing can be in line with the Inheritance Act, we're going to go to another extreme on these parcels to book a whole, two, three, five, ten heirs, and we're going to get an even more absurd situation. [[Intruder: Parcel.]] All in all for the end, I can see it's already crawling. The intention must have been positive, but I don't think these solutions I've mentioned are promising.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14457	We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14458	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain pointed out several incorrect allegations, which I forgive him for seeing him read the law here at the pay phone for the first time. But what I would point out among his false allegations is the payment of compensation, which he claims to be anti-constitutional. If we all agree that the obligation to use land is the interest of this country, then we need to find a model like this country's interest to protect it. He should not prejudge here whether it is constitutional or anti-constitutional, because the interest of the state is always constitutional, and given the world's food market, where the processing surfaces are looking practically with a candle, I think we must make great efforts to also put all our unprocessed surfaces into operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14459	Thank you very much. Just to find out, it's time to apply for individual hearings. The debate by clubs is over and we move on to an individual debate. First, the distinguished representative, Jerko Roshin, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14460	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since it's about first reading of the law and my debate has one such framework. The proposal of the Agricultural Land Act provides a significant paper on better agricultural land management, firstly I would set out the envisaged establishment of a special agency that would care for more meaningful and rational organisation of agricultural areas, and the decisive intention of selling, renting or concessioning state agricultural land economically activates all other land. Better management should also benefit from the idea of rounding agricultural areas, as well as the obligation to offer private land for sale to the Agency's administration first in order to better and faster use. However, it seems to me that the manipulation of articles relating to the sale rights of private land to whom, in what way, the price, and whether it is exclusively for abandoned land or for the purpose of which it is brought, is not clear enough, so it can be interpreted in various ways. The same applies to the definitions of the possibilities of fertilising more or less agricultural areas into a single and larger property plot. Preventing the deforestation of agricultural areas as a consequence of succession is also considered to be justified and more compatible with European practice, but the mechanisms for achieving such a goal are not clear to me. The idea of forced activation of abandoned agricultural areas in a way that is given to the use of those interested in agriculture is worth the attention, but the positive effects may be achieved by specific tax burdens on the owners, whose agricultural land is rooted and infertile. The proposal for attention would be an effort to bring the purpose of the wartime events of the devastated agricultural area back to life as soon as possible. In view of the many abuses of agricultural land reuses, it is logical and welcome that such a practice be disabled in the future. However, the proposed text of the law of several of us has been interpreted in quite different ways, which means that it is not quite clear, and the circumstances in which the new rules of the game should be implemented are not yet tailored to the needs. In particular, the situation of the catastra is compared to the intended purpose plan and the key question is whether the intended purpose can be re-purposed. In this regard, it is important to identify exactly what agricultural land is, in principle, both in nature and in nature, and not what could be as set out in Article 3 of the Law proposal. However, this law alone is not enough to achieve good results in the field of agriculture, and there are obstacles on that road in the unsettled state of the catastrophe and landowners especially before 31. 12. In 2010 until when the situation in the catastra is to be settled in relation to what we find today in reality, but also in many controversial properties of the former public goods compared to the real holder of any state and unit of local self-government or private property with an unknown residence, as well as one that seeks the return of property. Of course, in the sense of chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development within the framework of accession negotiations with the EU will need to be incorporated into the law and sold to foreigners, believing in a longer moratorium for such a possibility. The agricultural economy, depending on the specificities of shining and planted cultures, especially on the coast and islands, has the need for logistics support in solid facilities on the ground, and should be brought into line with the spatial-plan regulation regarding their size, purpose and accommodation. It would also be useful in such coordination to consider possible purposes and other possibilities. Finally, I would like to point out that I support the bill's proposal, of course, with corrections in terms of my observations, but it seems to me that one of the introductory sentences of the bill which says that agricultural areas are limited and that they cannot be greatly increased. After all, on the island of Hvar, a useful stoner turns into a vineyard with hundreds of hectares. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14461	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. One replication application, MP Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14462	Mr. Vice President, Honorable Representative Roshin had a good debate with a number of good proposals, but I still don't think he really meant what he said about selling the country to foreigners that such a provision should be incorporated into the law. I absolutely oppose it and think that agricultural land is our national treasure and that we must make efforts especially for those who are conducting negotiations today within agriculture so that such a thing never happens. According to some proposals, Croatia's entry into the European Union, Croatia is negotiating that its land will not be sold to foreigners for the next 12 years. There are examples of other countries that have successfully negotiated this. Therefore, there is no reason for us to run in front of the ore and put ourselves in our legal regulations. However, I think we need to pass a very strict law and then, of course, help our negotiators negotiate this area as best as possible. When it comes to catastrian measurements according to some of the information that I have received, it may be that the secretary of state will be better confirmed and came from the catastra, predicting that land books and cadastres will be settled, that the full measurement will be made in Croatia only in 30 years. If we wait for that complete measure then we will never solve the problem of agricultural land. As a result, there are good mechanisms in this law so that the issue can be put on the right foundation as effectively as possible. And what I have seen in the debates so far has been noticed, and in my individual debate, this is the issue of this famous compensation and areas of special state concern. Look, if someone doesn't want to live in the Republic of Croatia and they don't have it for five, ten, twelve years, we need to leave it for the grassland to grow and that those people who want to deal with agriculture can't expand their grants. I don't think we should and that's why this law may be strict in one part but I don't see a way to solve it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14463	Thank you very much. Does the honourable representative want to respond to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14464	Thank you. I didn't know it was a replica because I understood it, it started with the correction of the quote, so I think at least that's what I heard. I know and said that by 31.12.2010 the condition of the catastra must be arranged. So, at that point, we're going to, not in 30 years, but at that point, we should have knowledge. The specific reasons why I listed it is because, say, my 81-year-old house is still on the oran, not really what it is today. Of course, the problem is catastra but the Croatian state works in all its segments only in one ministry. As far as the European Union and rights are concerned, I pointed out only because we had a debate on the board that it should be a minimum of twelve years of moratorium and not that we are allowing it to happen. And of course, the agricultural land is of general interest to the state and that it should be cared for, and so I have highlighted the praise that even a stoner who was no use for any purpose. That's why I was surprised by the statement in the explanation that Mr. Secretary of State said, not from the bill that said it couldn't be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14465	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Followed by a further discussion by fellow respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14466	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Is the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land a bill to protect this non-renewable good, this non-renewable resource of ours, or is the opportunity and opportunity of what we all agree on about something that should not happen to the sale of this non-renewable resource. Namely, Croatian citizens are still traumatising the way the privatisation of the company was done. And now there's what's even more valuable than any company that's privatized or self-destructed. It's the woods, it's our agricultural land, it's the water, it's the ports. Why the state and we had promises from top state officials that it would not be sold to a respected colleague called Petir, she has now repeated her agricultural land several times and it is going for sale. And then that's exactly what's going to happen. And then we'll wonder how that could have happened. So, that a natural or even better legal person buys very cheaply let's be honest because that's also some kind of social incentive for a man who intends to produce, and so by the Law on Commercial Society, no one is responding to the fact that someone remains in debt to the believers, to declare bankruptcy, to fall into liquidation, before selling the company and then sell the land agriculturally. And thus shall the prophecy of the prophet Isaiah be fulfilled, and of the agricultural land, and of our land fall into the hands of strangers; and the strangers have moved into our houses, and we have to pay for water, and we have to buy our own wood. Is that what's going to happen to us? So did we promise that the land of the state would not be reduced? On the one hand, this is an absurdity that happens in law. We're allowing the state to sell. And why not a lease, why not a concession, what's he selling? On the other hand, an agency is set up that will then see how to buy from natural persons. There's something wrong. I can't deny the good intentions of the proposer either, but this must be removed from such contradictions and dangers as are threatened by another reading. Finally, or at the very beginning, before I say something very concrete, even though the first reading is also about certain provisions that already require that we refer to them now so as not to repeat such errors in the final draft of the law. This Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land was supposed to come when the book was finished, when the cadastre was brought into line with the landowner in 2002, we launched a major reform of the catasters and landowners. By all estimates, it was due to be completed in 2007, as far as the 12th year. Now we hear in 30 years it won't be over. And how it's going to be done when that money we raised from the World Bank is spent in electronic designing land books that don't match the real state. So, as we're going to figure out to the public, we've designed a land book and we've copied old data instead of spending all of our resources and our efforts on it, just in that it's actually a state of law. That's one thing. The second thing was to amend the Legacy Act. We deal with this law, the law directly conflicts with the Law of Property and other real rights. And in one Austria, please, which is about the same area as Croatia has dozens of times fewer cadastrian particles than Croatia has. But before that, they also changed the Law of Inheritance. Only one heir can inherit agricultural land. We still share this property with or if it is not willful under the law, so where in the second or third order or the first, second order, as they are called but mainly on flat parts and there is a sedation. And now we have a situation that other colleagues also told us that these, especially in our Dalmatia, where people are scattered all over the world. And we're going with this law of ours who stayed behind, who didn't resist, they call the distance and the wilderness, and he's staying here, and now we're going to punish him for not processing that tiny little plot. And he can't process it because it's not divided. And it's not divided because his cousin or brother in Australia who hasn't even seen the old people doesn't agree that he's working because it hasn't been divided yet. Well, that's absurd situations. And who are you punishing? They're the least. Who have the least. And who would even want to process it but can't because of the existing other laws that keep them from doing it. And finally how to give the commitment to our, to our people and to... That Dalmatia there is the tinyst, most jagged possession that a man retired who has one thirty others, that's what it's called, something, doesn't even know where it is that it's going to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even if his fellow heirs, or co-owners, would allow him to do so when it is not worth it. So he's gonna have to work on something since he retired. It's part of a small plot that's not worth it. So we're pushing him further into poverty. So the basic thing was to make a combination, rounding, and then nice to come like this, because when a relative situation is arranged, then really such owners and such users because they own and commit. Because there is no real way anywhere in Croatia that such agricultural areas stand unworked. But with this law, we won't make it possible. There'll be a dead letter left on the paper. And these penalties, therefore, which are intended for unprocessed agricultural land, some shall be punished, some shall not be punished. The question is whether, given the resources that are foreseen with, in this for the achievement and implementation of this law, are they even sufficient? Who's going to walk, what are those inspectors when they can't even visit the city what's going on in one town so they can eventually find these parcels that aren't, that aren't processed? On the other hand, there is also a question of the responsibility of local self-government units. We are all witnesses and there is also a question of corruption as to how spatial plans are made. To buy as a farm today, as soon as a certain person bought it overnight, it becomes construction. But, of course, given that regulation where certain units of local self-government and everything must be contained in that building land regulation, so many who are the owners of certain land and have always been built, during the night their land becomes agricultural. And with this law because it's declared agricultural, it has to process it. And he can't handle it because he's a stoner, because he's a wreck. So they have to fight and put in order as much. So this law certainly is a need, but a whole series of others, here's a couple of laws on inheriting that, that it's been passed that there's no further insinuation. Because every passing of time comes to a further insinuation. And those who have the most serious intention of doing something on this farm can't because of the other co-owners or co-owners. I would especially like to stress that until the next reading, therefore, we prohibit the sale of state-owned agricultural land and that we are exclusively in possession of these non-renewable state resources by other our real rights institutes such as lease or concessions. Perhaps I am also using this opportunity to document the needy in a nomotechnical way in Article 38. It needs and needs two terms that know Croatian equally Croatian and necessary. It takes a man or something or someone who's in trouble. I hope our country isn't in trouble yet, especially with the issue of documents, so there should be nomotechnically, so there are other cases like this, the law needs to be corrected. In Article 50, it cannot be possible for the borrower to terminate the lease if the tenant does not pay the lease. He can't break the contract. So it's about the state. So the state has to take care of its incomes, its fiscous. She has to. It's an obligation of the state. So the basic task and obligation of the tenant is to pay the rent neatly. Not the ad-hoc state. Someone's gonna charge for it. Someone's not gonna charge for it. So maybe you should take a look at this. I believe it was a lapus. So these are old contractual obligations. If he does not pay the price or if he does not pay the rent, they are the only reasons that lead to the termination of the contract. And here's a great chance and hope lies in this agency that has first and foremost the first, but we've passed a whole series of laws that we've given the state the right to buy first. Let's remember that island, the areas by the sea. But I don't know a single case where the state really used the right first buy and bought something other than what it's sold so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14467	Thank you very much. We have one replication report. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to replicate my colleague for one reason only. Although I agree basically that state land should not be sold, there is not a single European country that at least 10 to 15% of the land is not owned by me only replicating that lease. The worst land management is a lease. It should be short-term and there is no other solution. So renting state land would be really another bad land management. One more, in fact, another sin we've done before over that land. By renting land, every master from this day until tomorrow, exploits it, doesn't fertilize it, doesn't sustain it for many years in a fertile state. So we have to avoid that category. And since I have a little more time, I am one of those who supports in some way the punishment for unprocessed land for the reason that processing the land does not mean just sowing economic culture, but means keeping it unscathed, keeping it so that it does no harm to others. Therefore, we have to go after this because nowhere in the world there are no schnapps, there is no hard-core land that does damage, it must be maintained, cultured to maintain fertility, otherwise every country must protect this very non-renewable resource and prescribe penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14469	Thank you very much. Replication response, the esteemed representative, Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14470	Here, fellow Members, well that you have apostrophe, I generally spoke about state property that must be used by the institutes, therefore not selling and making available in that sense, but either lease or concession, but I absolutely agree when it comes to agricultural land that exclusively, i.e. in the predominantly body, concessions should be used. As far as punishment is concerned, here's what I'm going to tell you, I absolutely agree, and I also agree that you should punish those who won't, because property, I repeat, is binding and should take care of it as well. However, I repeat, a whole series of advances had to be carried out and made and the law passed so that this law could be applicable. Whom will the state punish, whom the inspectors will punish where the last entry into the land is, as you have in Dalmatia was committed 100 years ago. And there's no government records, the state doesn't have a record of who owns it because she didn't book it, or the new owners didn't sign up, that's one thing. And the other thing, the state doesn't even know what hers is yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14471	Thank you. We have one application for correction of the alleged, representative Mariana Petir. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14472	Here, Your Honor, Vice President, colleague Anticevic has claimed that through this law, not only will land sales be made possible, but malfeasance and sale of land to foreigners. Article 2 makes it clear that there is no sale of land to foreigners, Article 39, that priority in the purchase of agricultural land has been given to family farms in Croatia, and Article 73 that the agency has the right to buy first, which means that none of these articles that I have stated can be bought by any other foreigner by the basis of this law land in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14473	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It is next on the basis of the application of fellow MPs Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14474	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I believe that, here is the law we are discussing today, the Agricultural Land Act is one of the strategic laws for the development of agriculture and agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it is impossible to expect that the agricultural family economies will achieve self-sufficiency in production unless they have sufficient amounts of agricultural land, and given the analysis and situation so far, I must say that I am quite concerned and that this law is the new light that will allow a number of accumulated problems in the area of agricultural land management, not only in the possession of the state but also in private ownership. I am also concerned with what I read in the preamble of the law, which is that there are over 2.5 million hectares of agricultural land in Croatia, of which is owned by the state 890 thousand hectares. The programmes that were agreed by the Ministry of Agriculture include 531 thousand hectares, which means that some 300,000 hectares of state agricultural land are missing somewhere, which is obviously not registered as agricultural land and I think it is a serious problem and that in a very short time we need to find out where this agricultural land is because it is really large quantities. Of course, it has already been mentioned here what is happening within the catastrus and grantovnica, the problems facing people on the ground, but also with the data that this problem itself will not be solved so soon, which means that given Croatia's accession to the European Union, where we need to know how much land we have, we need to use this law as an instrument and mechanism to really get the exact data on how much agricultural land there is in Croatia and how much land it is owned. What is certainly a problem is the issue of unprocessed agricultural areas, because if we view land as a national resource, then with this national resource should be managed properly, especially in these trends that are now unfortunately happening on the global world market, which lacks land to produce food, Croatia has a very high chance and potential to feed 30 million people, but unfortunately we haven't taken advantage of any of that potential. That is why I support the Ministry's intentions to impose order into land management and that it is precisely when it comes to unprocessed agricultural land that is used and tightened by financial penalties because it is obvious for some of the only way that or that land offers to the municipality and the city, i.e. the agency for sale or lease or for the purpose of processing agricultural land. It is clear that some land is not established by the owner, that some owners do not want to farm their land, but here I repeat, by what times today here in this hall, I also find it unacceptable that those who do not want to live in Croatia do not consider Croatia as their home country in any way not to care about this agricultural land, there grow squishy and agricultural producers who want to expand their production do not have easy conditions. My county, the Banovina area, is an area that has suffered by war where there are a series of twisted small plots, where even a large part of these parcels are known to owners, but unfortunately they are rarely there, while other people living in the area, who lived there when grenades fell, cannot expand their agricultural production by raising new plantations, orchards or dealing with livestock in the cow-body system. I think it should finally be stopped at the end and told the truth in the eyes of how things are and why some advocate that such a provision should not be introduced. So these are the basic reasons why I support this particular payment provision, i.e. the introduction of a fee for unprocessed agricultural land. If we move in line with the law, Article 2 of the ban on selling to foreigners is very clear, I think the ministry must put forth efforts there as well as negotiators in agriculture to keep it that way and to achieve the goal we have set ourselves, which is that even after entering the European Union there is no sale of land to foreigners, so 12 years. What I would certainly suggest to be included in this Article 2 is also the maximum amount of land owned and up to 300 hectares. We are witnesses that it could happen if you sell the company you sell and the land owned by that company, and then such land is lost. If we go back to the fact that land is a national resource, then we need to manage it the right way. Companies can take land both in lease and in concession, but in my opinion they can own up to 300 hectares of land. In Article 6, I propose that Article 6 discuss the prevention of pollution. I suggest that a provision be incorporated in Article 6 to prohibit the seed of genetically modified seeds and for experimental purposes. Up until now, over 15 counties in Croatia have declared GMO free at the HSS initiative. At the level of their county congregations, they made such a decision, such a ban. Of course, it will become both valid and that it will be possible to control itself more strictly when the ministry, or the government, puts in this law the same provision that is binding because we have just reached conclusions on the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection in this regard. I welcome the provision of Article 18, where the holder, or who manages those areas, is finally known for the management of pastures and meadows in the protected area. So these are public institutions either county, or state. I think it's an extremely important step because of what's been happening, and today it happens to bring cattle or beyond the soft border to the pastures, to live there cattle from different owners, not to know who's in charge of these pastures. Very often, if the municipalities and cities had not placed in the competition this pasture surface, which I think was entirely justified, just so that they would not become the subject of the malversion of our famous Croatian tycoons that we can name, but here I am not going to make this opportunity. Therefore, I think it is very important that just pastures and meadows in protected areas be made available to real cattlemen, cattle associations, to know which owner of the livestock, therefore, leads to this pasture and that the livestock has health certificates, i.e. that health and veterinary checks are correct. Article 26 states that compensation is paid towards the surface of a building particle of a residential or other building except for golf courses where compensation is paid for parts of a building particle on which construction infrastructure facilities are located. I think she absolutely needs it. I don't see why golf would be the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and that the state loses on such a provision a million-dollar amount. So if other particles pay complete surfaces, that's how it should be when it comes to golf courses, and not that, for example, at 100 acres here according to some calculation, one who does golf course will pay only the price for only 2 hectares. So when it is included, and everything else instead of 100m euros, the state will receive 2m euros. This is, in my opinion, a complete absurdity, and I absolutely object to the fact that Article 26 remains that way. When it comes to Article 39, I suggest that priorities be set differently. Of course, the World Cup should be owned by an independent family holding, but I think that in second place it should be the bearer of a mixed family holding, and then in turn, as you have already stated in the law. I would also like to draw your attention to Article 56 where the right to a concession for agricultural production is spoken of where I consider it necessary to equalise the status of a legal person registered for the purpose of carrying out the agricultural activity and the holders of family holdings because it is a agricultural craftsman who, therefore, has no reason why he could not report to the concession tender. And I also want to welcome that the priority concession is finally lifted, because, for example, in my county, some tycoons have been in Jasenovac, Croatia Dubica and recently tried in Novska, besides people who have lived there for years, who have been working under mines, signing this land for use, or for permanent property, I think it is immoral and unfair and I welcome that the ministry has abolished that provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14475	Thank you very much. We have five applications for replication. First respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14476	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues in many elements of your debate agree, and especially in the part where you said that, I would say metaphorically, that 300,000 hectares of the country are gone, right? You see, I was going to say that she didn't disappear, so that's what that replica is. And I have an example from our county, where a domestic company or, therefore, a legal person bought in one of our municipalities agricultural land, then re-scheduled it for another purpose, and then this whole company bought another company from abroad. So an overseas company from our western neighborhood came into possession of a country in Slavonia. It's not the land that's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14477	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14478	Here's my colleague Grubisic interpreted my metaphor in a good way because we all have experience on our field of so-called. the disappearance of the country, i.e. the re-uses that occur and for this reason, and I am in favour of this law which should prevent such malfeasance. There was a debate here and a conversation about when it actually starts to re-apply, whether the re-purpose was already achieved when something was purposefully drawn in the spatial plan. I believe that the re-use is achieved when a power building permit is issued, and all those who want to re-route agricultural land into building land must pay for it, which will be a little higher this time than it has been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14479	Thank you. Further registered for the replica, the esteemed representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is basically a replica for everyone, let me just say. There's a lot of mention here of the word "scikara" and "scikara" is the initial forest. Since agricultural land in most cases came from the forest, by deforestation, so we don't have to think of the chic as something that turns out to be ugly like this, but it's an initial forest. Unfortunately, these initial forests are also found in pasture areas, which are led by grasslands like pastures. They grew up in forests, and then the initial forest, and I don't say the real forest, and then it's being leased, and then the ones who get the lease get it a little bit cramped, and it's basically bigger than the deforestation and the initial forest than the rent from the agricultural land. So let's just know what the forest is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14481	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14482	It's quite clear this is what my colleague Podnar was explaining here, but I think everyone understood what the term of the schizo was when I used it as part of my debate. This means that unprocessed agricultural land, that is, land that was once farmed, and because of the neglect of its masters, it has grown into different crusts, and somewhere it has even grown into chicare or unfortunately in certain parts of the forest. It saddens me that very often such agricultural land is lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14483	Thank you. Ivan Hanzek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14484	I'm not going to go into any more answers or replicas to some of Miss Petyr's views, but I'm going to say something that we in local self-government have met so far. In fact, usually one who writes laws whether or not with intent to write certain formulations, and then the law becomes inconclusive in implementation. In particular, the unprocessed land area in which it is written exclusively and explicitly by the owner. It brings us back to 1896 or 1916, and if the owner or owner writes, then it brings us back to the real state and into the situation that we know who has that land. In this way, certain sanctions or measures taken, I am a supporter, should protect agricultural land to be processed and I am a supporter in many sanctions situations. In this situation, we could also at the level of local self-government and at the level of this law implement sanctions against those who actually use land, but are not owners of the garter. And the other smaller, now the replica on the replica, when my colleague Petyr said, unfortunately, the woods, I don't think it's unfortunately the woods. I started over the county 15 years ago an attempt with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests, especially our Zagorje where small parcels are difficult to process, which are abandoned, that the state and local self-government invest in the purchase of fruit material and that for technical wood or quality forests new crew plantations, because we know in certain households that they are unable to process, but our generations in 50 years will have a quality tree that they will be able to sell or put into circulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14485	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14486	Well, here I think that my colleague Hanzek understood what I was going to say when I said unfortunately the woods, because it's sad when the agricultural areas that need to be used for food production or for agricultural purposes go to the shingle or the forest. And, of course, where there's an opportunity to relight, that I, too, support it especially when it comes to the Mediterranean and those areas that are burned. But I repeat, the agricultural land needs a really good master, sometimes my peasants say goods, because it requires great investment, time, effort, and sweat, and I think it is often demeaning, demeaning, and that people who work on it, who process it, and who keep it for generations to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14487	Thank you very much. It's the fourth line. Dear colleague of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14488	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would like to replicate to my colleague the repeated claim in this House both in my presentation and in response to the replica that in this law the ban on selling to foreigners is very clear and categorically established. I'd be happy if that's the case, but there's a point here, unless the international contract sets out differently. I would have been the happiest if there were no additional sentences, and there would have been no, because a few months ago in this Croatian Assembly we had an attempt to explain that the international contract is very difficult to determine, which is an international contract and so is the ZERP, if I remember correctly, a clerk ordinary, putting his signature on the record as we thought it was. It was declared an international contract and we had to stick to it. So, I'd be happier if it wasn't for this point, if these sentences weren't additionally complemented, or if we were to put another decimal, and let's say by international agreement it's not different if the Croatian Parliament approves it. Well, at least we know what we approve of, not the clerk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14489	Thank you very much. Answer, colleague Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the international contract can't even be confirmed by anyone else but the Croatian Parliament. This is about negotiations with the European Union. I can agree with you, I would be happy to have the point, but it is clearly defined through Article 2, Article 39 and Article 73 who can buy agricultural land in Croatia, and I also trust the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the negotiators to fight that there will be no sale of land to foreigners and 12 years after entering the European Union. It's one big test that I think we should pass, because if we don't pass it, then there's no point in even sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14491	Thank you very much. And finally the fifth replica, dear colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14492	Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, neither am I to please anyone but strangers, but who's going to buy this farm land? The poor people will not, so they will buy Croatian tycoons. Now I'm asking myself what they're better than strangers. I think those Croatian tycoons are worse. Lactalis certainly isn't worse than one Rajic, and if he hadn't bought Lactalis or I knew his name, who would? Croatian billionaires who have not earned anything in a fair way. And yet the best example is that Rajic, who with 280m euros, fled the country to Switzerland. That money clearly did not come into any Croatian bank, but immediately sat down at Swiss Bank or I do not know which bank. A stranger, if nothing else, will pay every square foot, and these are ours who use thousands of acres without any kuna compensation and yet the state has to come out clearly to meet them. And now we're going to fight all this time to keep my father from selling to someone a thousand or 500 square feet of agricultural land, but that's why on the other side of the country is going to sell to INA or HEP and thus deprive me of national sovereignty. As for these golfers, I would also like to pay those billions of kuna fees, but I know that no one under these conditions will come and invest in that infrastructure, and without golf, there is no extension of the season from which everyone lives again in this country, so among other things, I wonder why someone wants to ban Sundays in the season. Anything else in this law I'll say in my opinion, it's largely questionable, and especially this when, because of unprocessed agricultural land, a farmer in the Cains or I don't know where, he might have to pay 15 thousand kuna per hectare eventually, because he doesn't process the country. In a year, two or three will happen that all of this will be left to the state, to the state, and the state will in one such unspeakable way not damage it, but nationalise it in a way that neither the communists have done in the 1950s.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14493	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14494	A colleague of Cain’s, however, needs to end this law at the end of the Croatian tycoons, as Article 39 defines that the right to purchase or rent is owned by an independent family holding. So the tycoon can't buy land in front of the family farm, as it happened in previous years where I can set an example of Kutina, where the largest milker in Sisak-Moslavina County didn't even get a piece of land, but it's got someone who does auto transport, service fire extinguishers or the like. Or, for example, one city in the area of special state care where the president of the Milky Way Association did not get a single piece of land because it is not exactly the same political party where the mayor is, and that is why we are passing laws to prevent such malfeasances from getting rich at the expense of peasants, at the expense of national wealth and agricultural land, they cannot do so and this law will in large part prevent them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14495	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14496	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. It is good that it is so positioned, because agricultural areas are limited and cannot increase significantly, they just shrink. That's the trend. Total areas under agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia are important, amounting to 2.7 million hectares owned by the state is 33% and 67% is private property. The current law mainly refers to the availability of state land, and its application in practice has shown that there are a number of problems which slow down the agricultural land supply process in ownership means the state either through sale, lease or concession. Despite the above problems, 165 planned land was sold, plots planned with the programme, 50% of planned land was leased and a 40 per cent concession. So far, contracts have been concluded for slightly less than 300 thousand hectares, and 45% of them are leased, 33% of concessions, and 22% are sold. The private-owned agricultural land and its availability has not been established by a specific regulation so far, and general rules establishing ownership or regulation of ownership have been applied. The result is a constant trend in depletion of our production parcels and reduction of land area by agricultural economy, and the problem is not to use agricultural areas for agricultural production. This law fully regulates the protection, use and change of the purpose of agricultural land, the establishment of an information system of agricultural land, the availability, availability of fishers owned by the State, the availability of unprocessed state agricultural land, the establishment of an agency for agricultural land, transport, private agricultural land, and administrative inspection and criminal provisions. The novelty is the establishment of a central information system formed on the basis of catastra data and I agree with many today who participated in the debate that certain advances in this segment should be made, and its main database makes up a system for the identification of land particles. In the information system, therefore, all oranices, gardens, meadows, pastures, orchards, olive groves, vineyards, ponds, reeds and marshes and other land that can become suitable for agricultural use. The system will also register all private and state land, and the system will be maintained by the Agricultural Land Agency. In addition to maintaining the information system, the agency will deal with the availability of state-owned agricultural land, obtaining this in private for rounding or holding due to the inability of the owner to process it. It will manage the land fund through land transport, and will also provide assistance to the owners of agricultural land in the resolution of property legal transactions. The Agency will monitor the implementation of the agricultural policy, which is news and what is good, analyse data on the agricultural land market, take care of the planning and parceling of agricultural land, as discussed by the articles of the proposal from 60 to 68. The news is also the possibility that in the event that the owner of the agricultural land cannot find the tenant or the buyer, the agency shall do the job for him, and the agency shall also have the right to buy first for all private agricultural land at the highest price offered. The provisions of the law, in particular Article 39, will allow for the purchase or purchase of agricultural land, means only those who are actually engaged in agriculture, and the advantage of buying or renting will be given to holders of an independent family holding, legal persons registered for the purpose of carrying out agricultural activities, holders of a mixed family holding and only then others who intend to engage in agricultural production. In order to protect agricultural land and examine and monitor the state of pollution permanently, the Office for the Land will be engaged and supervised by inspectors. The conditions have also been strengthened, meaning that Articles 22 to 26 have been regulated, tightened the conditions for changing the purpose of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes and are implemented in accordance with spatial order documents and other regulations establishing the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Penalty measures are large for those who pollute and destroy agricultural land, which carry out a reuse of the opposite law but who do not process and do not maintain a capable land for agricultural production but also for those who do not carry out pollution protection. The implementation of this law means the introduction of greater discipline in the re-use of agricultural land, which is certainly good but also the formation of a core of agricultural economies that will have a long-term perspective, also the beginning of rounding. So, this law does not regulate full rounding, it does not solve, but begins the process of rounding up agricultural holdings and from private agricultural land funds, as well as increased transport to private land. Better agricultural land management means the introduction of an information system. With the establishment of the Agency, the law should, in total, bring about therefore circumnavigation, increase of agricultural land used and put into service until now unused agricultural land but certainly more protection. And the results of these measures, I would not agree with my colleague Kajin, will also be felt in the Zadar County area which has a great agricultural potential, primarily a large processing agricultural area, favourable climate opportunities and a significant amount of water for irrigation and is one of the most significant economic branches, especially if it binds to tourism and processing industries. Data from 231.7 thousand hectares of agricultural land, of which the highest quality processed 69 thousand which make up means ornanica, gardens, orchards, olive groves and vineyards, and privately owned by more than 90% of the agricultural areas. In this segment we expect great results. The state-owned land programme has so far been sold from these mentioned in the Zadar County 170 hectares and 550 hectares has been leased, so only state-owned land and less than 10% of it is in the area of this county. There is still a great potential of agricultural land that, when placed in the place it belongs to this law, is put in place as a special interest of the Republic of Croatia and a special protection will certainly give good results. The first step in achieving these results is also the adoption of laws that fully regulates and protects, and use, and availability and re-use. So I'm going to support this law, of course, in the first reading, of course, with the comments already made here and listed in one section that will make the second reading a little better law than this proposal that we now have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14497	Thank you very much, colleague. According to the order of applications, it's time for the esteemed colleague, Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14498	Thank you very much. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few words about this matter. I have to admit by reading this explanation certain data surprised me very much, first of all this information that almost 20% and 95 municipalities in Croatia did not bring this programme and as I recall that deadline was somewhere in 2003. If we add this even though I don't know the exact information but probably another part of those municipalities didn't even have spatial plans maybe brought it up then to think about it is and it's another problem whether it's justifiable to have so many municipalities if they're not able to realize it. According to this data, I would not like to repeat now what my colleague said earlier, but from nearly 890 hectares of state-owned orange land so far, the sale, lease and concession has been realised by some 141 thousand. It's a really small number and 531 thousand acres are planned. And then the question arises, in fact, what about that difference of up to 890,000 acres. This explanation might be more complete if we could also get data on how many hectares and on what basis the incentives from the state budget are being realized. And that would be very interesting to compare with this data that we got here to see what's actually going on with that agricultural land. And allow me another two, three moments to look back. First of all, as far as the concession is concerned, I absolutely welcome this finding that there is no talking here about priority concessions. On the other hand, I think that in this law, and that was today the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government, absolutely should be built in one provision according to which concession, especially as predicted here to be given for 50 years now, that it cannot be and does not make any sense to be a fixed amount. In particular, I know of the case of Baranja when the former areas of the combinations Belje is a good part of over 17 thousand hectares concluded a concession contract probably wheat was then somewhere maybe 20, 30 limes and that concession is in effect today. Otherwise, when it comes to the value of the country and when it comes to the lease, the market price is determined by the relevant tax administration. I think it would be absolutely logical if it were also about the concession. In particular, we now have a situation to say the average concession in our area and in the municipality where I come from where there are more than 7,000 hectares in such an arrangement, or in a concession average of 330 kuna. Of that is 165 of the state budget and 165 goes into the municipal budget. This means income from somewhere under a million kuna and about one fifth, perhaps even less than market price. Of course, this does not correspond to the budget or to the population living there. I've already pointed it out here, I might be a little bit boring, but for those municipalities, those hurricanes are the same thing as for the Makarska Sea. So, especially now in this situation where we can only congratulate where the harvest records fall and between 70 and 80 metric cents, but from these records, this population there is very much God knows that there are no great benefits, no KUDs, no athletes, no firefighters, no one because it's such a contract. This should be respected, but for the future I advocate that this concession should be negotiated or tied to wheat or determined on market conditions. Another problem I want to say a few words about, which is taking down a mortgage. This is mentioned here and I absolutely welcome it, but I think we should give one formulation that this is applied and a retroactive team more than a lot of countries have been sold to us, and according to the current regulations there could be common offers. Therefore, people bought certain parcels and became co-owners and there would be great problems and difficulties in disassemblying and joint assets, and if it was paid in full and there were moods and, of course, material opportunities, then the mortgage and retroactively should be taken down so that people could sovereignly dispose of their own, their own land. As far as the agency is concerned, I think they've been given good formulas. Only in that sentence where it's said that it's allowed or that it's possible to establish branches I think it should be regulated so that it becomes a commitment. It means that the agency has regional centres if not in every county but in regional centres to have its branches would be very, very lucky that we can also have the Central Office of State Property a little decentralisation and together with this agency that we have them in regional centres as well. It would be a real hit for all of us down there living on the ground to decentralize it all together because this is the kind of thing that goes in the property-legal sense very slowly. I'd like to point out another problem here. That means a lot for certain areas. The programmes are designed for certain surfaces and for return. And now unfortunately this return, this process goes extremely slowly and then that surface, in our example, is about 500 to 600 hectares. So far, I guess 150 are realized and those surfaces are not treated so well, they're used, they're confirmed for a year, which I don't think is a good solution. Returns should be settled, regulated from those areas given in the concession and here provides for either concession or finally for sale. Finally, one article says that the mayor should give his particular opinion on all of this. Now I don't know if it's binding or not binding and what's in it for what's special about it? Because if it's the same political option both in the municipality and in the county, then it's okay and it's expensive. If it isn't, then there may be misunderstandings in a certain way and I think maybe we should make it more specific and say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14499	Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague. I'm still giving my word to my colleague, Branko Boxty.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So far, the law has mostly referred to agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Agricultural land owned, its traffic and availability has not been regulated by a special regulation so far. The result is a constant trend in depletion of our production parcels and reduction of land area by agricultural economy. There are about 30% of the total agricultural areas of Dalmatia in the Ravna kotar area. The register of agricultural holdings lists 3 thousand 965 rural households, or about 16 thousand inhabitants in agricultural activities, but the Zadar County farm is characterised by up to 3 hectares, which means that it is slightly more than the average in the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates the protection, use and change of the purpose of agricultural land, the establishment of an information system of agricultural land, the availability of agricultural land and fish stocks owned by the State, the availability of unprocessed agricultural land, the establishment of an agency for agricultural land, the transport of private agricultural land. It is also good that the process of selling leases or concessions is being speeded up because of the practice so far, it has been quite slow. Of the 19 units in the local self-government in Zadar County, which own property owned by the Republic of Croatia 4 did not provide a programme on the availability of agricultural land. The town of Benkovac adopted a programme in April 2002 and a tender for agricultural land was prepared and launched on the basis of the programme and 209 family farms were leased. The main part of the fruit and vineyard production of Zadar County was located in our area, which was completely occupied and with minor exceptions the orchards and vineyards were completely killed. Knowing this, we started to revitalise fruit growing and winemaking in a way that we co-financed the fruit material of our farmer along with the county, and the result of co-financing and implementation of the programme is 700 hectares of new plantations. This law clearly defines the priorities available to agricultural land, and this is most seen by encouraging the domestic population in the processing of agricultural land. It is also important to stress that Article 31(4) provides that agricultural land owned by a natural person cannot be shared in the succession process. Several colleagues and colleagues mentioned Article 16(1), which refers to a three-year period. I also agree with that, or Mr. Caine, that it seems to me that this is too short a period, or during these 3 years of agricultural production, only those who are engaged in warfare or vegetables, and certainly not those who deal with fruit growing. The end of this sentence in the first sentence for me is multiple compared to this period of 3 years, and that is the renting fee to the owner of the land. I think through this fee is stimulated by one who doesn't process his land. I think things should be set exactly the opposite. It means the one who doesn't process to pay the fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14501	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. Next comes the debate, and I give my word to the honourable representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14502	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I have a feeling that through the debate we have turned a little bit into a particular policy, that is, we are taking into account more of our specificities from the areas from which we come, we are not looking for solutions and we are not making proposals or global solutions, so let's call it of general interest. So the problems of agricultural land and land in general, by looking for adequate solutions, were addressed by all the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, and so today we are looking for certain solutions and we need to bring solutions that respect the good experience so far and offer a way out of existing ambiguities and provide answers to the current situation in agriculture, or at least to a large extent offer adequate solutions. I will remind you of the words of our folk village tribune, Jož Pankretić, who was in this Croatian Assembly in 1993, meaning 15 years ago when the country was also at war talking about land problems, pointing to problems of unprocessed land, presales of land, food production, but he also spoke about the overall relationship with the country. I believe that we all remember his words, and I will also quote you when he said, "When you approach the earth and when you approach a woman, you must always be clean and neat because only the two of you are born in the world. The mother gave birth to the world to exist, otherwise there would be no world, but the earth beareth something to eat." These words are now spoken and talk about the importance of this matter, they say that this area is too important for the overall economic development of the country, and the survival of our village is our obligation to seek solutions to find a path to the goal that will ensure the rebirth and survival of the Croatian village, and this law is only one of the necessary laws that seek to set certain legal regulations. Agricultural land is also a national treasure, therefore any legislative proposal aimed at protecting this national treasure will also support it. If the proposed law, in addition to protection, intends to bring agricultural land into operation, that is to say, unprocessed as processed agricultural areas and produce food on them, then I believe that no one has anything to do with it, and of course I believe that they will support the proposed law. I don't think there's any food or enough food, and today we're using a healthy food term. Without quality and farmland, there is no healthy food. Food in sufficient quantities for the population of our country, not food from imports, makes our country independent of all pressures and possible blackmails. Dependence on the import of food must and can be avoided. The economic use of land is closely related to the rounding of agricultural parcels, so I believe that the proposed solutions are good and the establishment of the agency as a specialised public institution, I believe it will solve the tasks set. The agency should prevent pre-sales of land, as well as ensure that our citizens who deal with agricultural production come into possession, our farmers who need and need the land. We believe that the agency will make it impossible for foreigners to acquire ownership on agricultural land. I also point out the proposed category of mixed agricultural holding as a category present in some European Union countries. I believe that we too have a large number of mixed agricultural economies, i.e. in one economy there are sources of income from several sources in fact, so I think that this categorization is a good thing to regulate and a mixed agricultural economy. I am in favour of simplifying the process of selling state agricultural land to farmers' holdings as well as obtaining a concession to cultivate unprocessed land, to address the problem of booking agricultural land through land books, as well as to prevent the cleavage of land parcels. In this proposed law, we see good solutions and therefore I will support it because I believe that even today, good suggestions in first reading can be found in this proposal for a law on second reading and there are no perfect ones for me, or how do we say ideal solutions, solutions for all of us, but let's start to solve this matter, if we don't go and take the first step we'll never get to the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14503	Thank you very much. And now according to the application, the debate follows the distinguished representatives of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14504	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, The proposed legislation on agricultural land certainly defines the protection of the holding and the availability of agricultural land as already highlighted here by this important non-renewable resource. The burden is being thrown at sustainable development. In any case, sustainable development should be our primate, but sustainable development must not be an alibi for non-production, for non-productiveness and incompetence, all unfortunately still characterized by our agriculture. In fact, following data from the soil analysis, following data on the consumption of fertilisers is clearly reading the fact of the poverty of our agricultural areas, primarily as a result of poor technology which has returned several years back, but is partly the result of the country's lease. As the tenants master the land today, I've already spoken, so I won't repeat it, but I have to say that our land is getting less and less manure, that is, not enough manure. It does not fertilise for supplies, which is a commitment to quality soil management, it does not return to the ground even what is brought about by nature. Therefore, the land-based policy cannot be just a circle, i.e. sales, leases and concessions must already have a real weight on soil management. This law discusses the establishment of a soil office to be monitored, says pollution of agricultural areas. I must say that we must define that this institution, which will be a state institution, must rightly monitor both fertility and nutrient in the ground, that is, at each lease, during each concession giving, an inventory of food in the soil should be known in order to have at least the same land when returning such land, if not to improve fertility. The soil can be degraded, the soil can be thrown out of production and poor management. That nothing is cleaned, but that it is so impoverished, that the pH, or that the soil becomes so acidic that it is simply not possible to make more quality use of it. Therefore, I think that the law should have a wider definition of what this institution will follow except for soil pollution. I was talking about the importance of keeping the soil fertile, that it must be managed regardless of whether an economic category will shine on it or it will be maintained in terms of clean weeds, not harming the neighbours, and surely I repeat it again, and I am very much in favour of any punishment of one who will simply destroy, or not use them, while at the same time harming other parcels, because weeds are spreading very quickly. I'm not going to use GMOs here, because I'd go wide, but I think it's important that we take care of fertility. We introduce a new terminology, I think that's what my colleague Zgrebec was talking about, we need to bring it into line with the Agriculture Act, because certainly what my colleague Greek said, in Europe, is a mixed family holding that has a supplemental income from other sources, which in the end Austria is all based on, but since we know the family independent and on the other hand an independent economy which is a legal person, here is given priority to a legal person, means an independent family economy, and at the same time most of them are still registered as a family holding outside the income tax system, and thus we automatically exclude them in this law as a priority of cult land, so maybe we should make sure that the second reading takes account of how to reconcile the terminology and to whom we give priority. I finally welcome, and I won't repeat what I said to my colleague here when I commented on the law, to finally define and manage the ponds. It is finally defined that the pond forms a unique technological unit and assumes agricultural land for special purposes. Namely, precisely because it was not defined that the land belonged to the pond, we destroyed several thousand acres of fish ponds in Croatia that are being released today so as not to use the word "squires" because someone here reacted. We've ruined one activity that 70% of its production has exported, which has been good for water. Someone was talking about pollution, because they're paying for that cost. Unfortunately, they do not pollute this water but keep it biologically correct and, most importantly, third - grade soils that were mostly wetland and reeds, lead to the management and production of quality meat. So it's good that the pond is no longer just a dropout and abandonment and some kind of building, but it's also a land that will be in quality concession and I think it's a good solution. I welcome the Agricultural Land Management Agency, however, and I continue to think that state agricultural land should not be sold, but should be given in concessions, because every smart country thinks of the future of its generations and for that one do not give God and protects itself in concessions of 10 to 15% of its surfaces and thus guarantees itself some kind of security for production that at some point can be deficited. Normally, I don't understand why the lease is defined for 25 years, but the olive tree is 50 years old, and on the other hand we define the concession at a maximum of 50 years. Either it's a lease, or it's a concession, and besides that concession under our concession law can be 99 years old, so something we've been mixed up here because olive groves if it seems like 25 years of leases are little, then why don't we go to the concession and not tell the olive groves to go to the lease for 50 years which really disturbs both the concession ratio and the lease ratio. I won't let myself do it without saying what I say very often in the end. It is a pity that we have lost a very high-quality resource to round up our property, primarily family economies, and because we have avoided early retirement, which we have avoided national or whatever we call it, an age pension, which we are at the expense of agriculture and at the expense of creating the competitiveness of agriculture, we are spending our resources on something very high-quality could be solved, which would help us tomorrow and Europe, because exactly the whole of Europe is rounding up its properties at the expense of early retirement, at the expense of defining certain pensions, which creates a land fund that goes or sells, i.e. which is transferred to heirs if there are. Money that I say is meant for incentives in this sense is not to be thrown out primarily for market agriculture, because someone here today was talking about self-sufficiency. The self-sufficiency of the agricultural economy is not at all, but the self-sufficiency of Croatian agriculture is very important, and then production for European and other markets that are looking for this expensive food in any case that we will not do so by squandering and pettying. So the law has good solutions with a little improvement I think we can pass a quality law and personally support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14505	Thank you to my fellow MPs. It is up to counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14506	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Here I am sure that the proposal for this law is rooted in good faith to finally solve problems with agricultural land, this problem is very current especially in Slavonia where relatively large areas of agricultural land are. We witness daily that because of certain false interpretations, malfeasance, abuse, irresponsibility, and predatory, there are conflict situations in our municipalities, in our villages, and I would sort of explain it by looking at this bill and, in particular, the main points that end up at six, so 16, 26, 56, 76, 86, where there can be some confusion and some problems in connection with this bill. Namely, first in Article 2 mentioned by Mr. Denon in one replica. It is said that land, therefore, can't be obtained by legal work by foreign legal and natural persons, and then unless the international contract sets out otherwise. It is clear to me that this is the subject of Croatia and the European Union negotiations and that Croatia should not, if in many places it has fallen, in that part it should not give up or, in the second reading, when we have the right to submit an amendment, and I will submit it, that it is defined, so that, after a word, unless the international treaty ratified by the Croatian Parliament is otherwise defined. On page 4 of this proposal of the law, we see that additional resources are needed to implement this law in the state budget. I'd like to cut it short if we could re-establish two new agencies, the information system and the soil office. I'm not saying they're not unnecessary, they're necessary, but clearly that always establishing further and further agencies we know what this is all about. The article 16 that I mentioned earlier discusses unprocessed private-owned agricultural land that should be leased for 3 years, so to those who report to the local self-government tender. Now that you're looking at these three categories, so sales, leases and concessions, then you always have a commission appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture or other words by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When the private land that is unprocessed is leased, then it settles exclusively the local community. Any commission has been removed and the ministry has been removed. So, in Slavonia where the situation is something different than in Dalmatia, which Mrs. Antičević Marinović spoke of and pointed out that there is a problem with the configuration of terrain and distribution like children's cancers, people from Australia to Canada, and I don't know where everything else or California is, in Slavonia is the main thing that brings in actually unprocessing surfaces, which is why chicars and large unprocessed surfaces are actually the age of the Slavonian village and what Mrs. Chuhn just heard about those miserable, minor agricultural pensions. The average age of Slavonian village is 62 years. I think we should all imagine ourselves above these facts and it's clear that a large number of agricultural fertile, agricultural areas are unprocessed. However, there is a need to be fully aware that, for certain traditional reasons, we can have problems in renting this unprocessed agricultural land, to say almost I would tell the neighbors or someone else because there are certain relationships that are not very good for local authorities that would then conduct this competition, a public tender. I clearly say here, in this situation there is no ministry, no commission, no Government of the Republic of Croatia. About golf courses and damages that someone here has replicated in that sense that it may not be such a shame, but I personally prefer that the terrains are agricultural that would be re-designed to golf courses are certainly in some sense damage, and there are areas that belong to that other category, that mountain that can also be re-purposed, not fertile agricultural land. So that's the 26th article. In Article 56 of this proposal, the Law refers to the award of a concession for agricultural production and gives priority to the legal persons of former agricultural land users in social property that has become owned by the State, provided that they are owned by that land. I don't get it, and that's what I'm hoping the secretary of state will explain to me, who's in possession of that land. In fact, we are witnessing very recent events where cooperatives, cooperatives that make up three or four natural persons, form a cooperative in Slavonia to have just... in giving concessions to a thousand, a thousand, 200 hectares, 300 each, and the farmer of the family holding is only in the third row. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, only in the third row for obtaining a concession for agricultural production. Therefore, I think that someone was talking about the need to equalise and I agree with that, it is necessary to equalise the rights in the first place of the legal person and the holder of the family holding in obtaining a concession on agricultural land. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So all this stuff that says, these seven items, it's all... in two words, agricultural production and I think it is actually unnecessary and are not the criteria by which one who chooses can be treated, the commission chosen by the concessionaire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, in Article 76, no one has mentioned that there is also a agricultural inspectorate and that nine of its duties are precisely listed, nine functions to be performed by the agricultural inspector. The agricultural inspector can bear to say... Procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no criminal, criminal who is then resolved by a solution, and the solution does not delay execution, and there is an appeal procedure with the Ministry of Agriculture, the competent ministry. What you're not talking about here, and it's about the inspectorate, I think it would be good to add the tenth function that would say that whoever's in a concession or a lease, that it's absolutely safe given the number of hectares that you have to show so-called. The reference offering, clearly multiplied by the number of hectares, with a elemental disaster that can be reduced, but it has not been the case so far, so many of our tenants or concessionaries are very good, to say farmers are not many, but unfortunately these malversions have happened, they have invested in Slavonia with jeeps of various types, and nothing has actually been or was very, very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14507	Comrade, finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14508	I hope that, given that this first reading is going to make certain changes and changes to make this law acceptable, because I am convinced that it was done in good faith to finally solve the problem of the village and agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14509	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14510	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a brief on the proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land I'll say in the beginning that it's good to go into two readings and that this time, with all the proposals and suggestions, I can suggest a better quality of the law, so to say, to make and install the remarks that we as advocates have made or we will give in the course of the debate. I will not talk about the parts of the laws that I agree with, which, with the protection of agricultural land and the change of purpose that is defined here, is to suggest that, as far as changes in agricultural land's intentions are concerned, measures in the law are even more restrictive than what is happening today in the Republic of Croatia, that agricultural land is transformed through spatial plans into building land, as well as with the Agricultural Land Agency, which is tasked with regulating agricultural land management, as well as rounding agricultural land. What I find questionable is Article 16 for which it would be worth examining whether it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, given that Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be guaranteed the right of ownership. The article limits this right, I will not say that it is unconstitutional, because the assessment of it is given by the Constitutional Court, but it would be worth a second reading to check, and it is done that the property of the municipalities, meaning the unit of local self-government can be leased, means private land without the consent of the owner. The second thing I would like to point out in particular is Article 40 of the Law, which states that the price of the sale and the lease of the initial price determines the relevant tax administration, which is essentially the average market price in the area where the property is located. I think that this provision as it is written is discriminatory, I would say in conflict with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, I would say I do not believe that the ministry has proposed but indirectly it discriminates farmers on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, because it is precisely why. The price in the coast compared to the price of the continental part of the Republic of Croatia is the market price of agricultural land 10, perhaps more and 20 times higher than in the continental part of Croatia. Farmers in this part of the Republic of Croatia sell their agricultural products at unique prices compared to the second part, we know that the purchase prices gave wheat or potatoes in the Republic of Croatia are more or less the same depending on where they are sold. Whether it's trade chains or other places. Here's my proposal: the price is set for all farmers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to be a single price, because I think we discriminate against those who live in some areas where these prices are far higher, and they're bigger precisely because I talked earlier about speculating that maybe this agricultural land will become building land once tomorrow. Here I propose that we change this part in Article 40 in a way that determines that the price is unique in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that, at that price, agricultural land is sold, but also that the first right to purchase in the contracts and in the law itself is incorporated in the interests of the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent all the speculations, land malversions, to install the right of purchase, so that the Republic of Croatia can buy that land in as far as is sold under the same conditions under which it is sold. And the third thing I can certainly say is my remark is Article 80 where the penalties for natural persons amounting to 500 to 15 thousand kunas, I think these penalties, I would say dragons, that we know that rural farms are relatively small, that in the country what the data show and the data of the elderly family households and the penalty of 15 thousand kunas that someone has to pay for non-processing, I would say that is the annual pension of one such household. And this article certainly needs to be reviewed, that is, deleted. Here are my suggestions, I would say, related to both Article 16 and Article 40 and Article 80 with other parts of this law may be agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14511	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14512	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think what Mr. Brkaric said especially about the land that will use it and the measures that should be taken not to get it into some wrong segment or to become from the agricultural land building land. I think that today is especially of general interest especially for Croatia which intends to join the European Union. Today, land traffic will be even more interesting today and in the future. For what? In particular, since the support for a hectare-related agriculture will also be based on the economy and in the coming time the interest in buying, renting or concessions will be increasing. What does that mean today? This means that many farmers today point out that it is the country that is the biggest problem in the recovery of agriculture. Agriculture should be compatible with European agriculture and this means that the issue of land ownership in Croatia must be resolved in one quality way. It will be dealt with safely just so that what will be resolved by Croatia's entry into the European Union, which means that foreign customers will have, will probably get a certain moratorium. Why does it matter? Because it is already happening today that many foreign investors, through agricultural companies, enter the land or they use it but are the real owners of others. That's what I think we should stop in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14513	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Krešimir Kuterovac, secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14514	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank everyone for the discussion. As I have recognised from your presentation, you all support with certain remarks such as this one concept of law, of course, with the completion of individual provisions. But I would briefly just try to explain a little bit more of the individual provisions you've commented on. Mostly the part that tells us about the restrictions on the ownership of agricultural land and where we are talking about control, sale and private and state agricultural land. In the provisions of this law, we first defined that agricultural land is of general interest and thus we tried to give it a special importance. Of course, we, in part of the provisions that speak of the sale of private agricultural land, have in some way directed and controlled private property, but since property as we have heard here today, we think that it is perfectly okay to control the sale of private agricultural land in some way, to introduce penalties for unprocessed agricultural land because it is the only way to put into operation the total agricultural land. In the provisions of this law, there are safeguards for those who cannot process their agricultural land or in those areas where no one wants to farm land to avoid the possibility that in some way and repressive measures may be counterproductive, so there are mechanisms where any owner cannot process but that the provisions of this law apply to him. It is also clearly defined in Article 2 that land cannot be sold to foreigners. Of course it's one of our footholds in negotiating Chapter 4 where we're looking for a delay in the application and sale of land to foreigners for twelve years. But other than those provisions, this law contains so-called. decriminal measures that stimulate and which work for domestic agricultural producers. Therefore, when one day foreigners can buy land in Croatia if the provisions remain such or similar priorities for the purchase of private agricultural land and state agricultural land, they also have domestic natural and legal persons engaged in agricultural production, which have appropriate programmes and which will thus make priorities for purchase. Similar provisions as we put in this proposal have many European countries, and these are exactly how agricultural land is protected. When protecting, using and changing the purpose of agricultural land, we went for enough not to tell the sharp provisions that protect our agricultural land because we are aware that it is a buffer from which it can no longer be created, by destroying a hectare of agricultural land, that hectare can never return. And that is why we have clearly defined the criteria when re-use can be done but we have increased the prices of re-use because it was precisely from your discussion that even when changes in spatial plans happen, certain activities that can go hand in hand with the achievement of individual interests and we are simply using such a provision of the law, although this is the result that can be realized that this total price difference between construction and agricultural land goes to the benefit of the state and that it is used for further availability and regulation of agricultural areas. With the very establishment of the information system other than the cataster data, we will also use the data of our new system that is in the design, which is the ELPIS system which clearly defines and visually shows the state of the agricultural particle and, apart from its surface, gives us information on the cultures where this land is located and about the state in which it is located, so that the establishment of this system is possible to clearly control agricultural land, its use and the area at our disposal. So these provisions prevent speculation and mixing with agricultural land. Of course, it's always that big problem to fix this situation and that the total handling of both grant and catastrian is a prerequisite for the final editing of this agricultural land. When making the law, we also stated that cadastrian particles are indivisible. We do not dispute co-ownership on certain particles but we think that further dissuasion by any succession process, any other acts are very questionable and if the question of succession may be co-owners but can no more cadastrian particles are stained and shared. In these parts, the price setting means we think that the price has its own market base or if the price in a particular area is high there are reasons why it is high and certainly there are some kind of positional rents. I'm sure there are other arguments if you want air-conditioning that make arguments as to why these prices are so high. Of course, if agricultural land is used for agricultural production. If we shut down the part that tells us about the reuse of this agricultural land. With the establishment of the agency, the agency will gradually take over part of the business and units of local self-government, as well as the overall process of making that agricultural land available because 70% of the agricultural land is privately owned and these small small parcels if we launch this process will be one of the beginnings of the creation and circulation of agricultural holdings. And if we coordinate this process, we lead in a unique way through an agency that, of course, must have its own facilities in all units of regional self-government because our goal is to educate our units of local self-government but also to manage the process in certain areas. So he has to have his own infrastructure. It will finally determine the process in some way. Here's another thank you for everything, for your discussions. We are sure that in the second reading with respect I say part of these provisions we will have a better and better law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14515	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met, probably tomorrow. I am notifying on behalf of the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that the session of the committee will be held in 5:30, so in half an hour at the hall of Ante Starcevic, hall 149. The foreign law is on the agenda. Thank you. We move to the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 124. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the following conclusions. 1. Proposal for a law on agricultural land, 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? These conclusions were accepted by most votes, 121 votes for, 6 abstentions and 4 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14518	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this Act on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the Legal Position of the United States of America in the Republic of Croatia or an additional "SOFA". An agreement signed in Washington on April 3, 2008. This additional "SOFA" is thus shortened to call an international contract in which relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States further regulate issues related to the presence of US forces in Croatia in the framework of NATO or peace partnership. Therefore, the additional SOFA will develop the provisions of NATO SOFA, which means the NATO Force Legal Position Agreement and... The SOFAs of the Agreement on the legal position of the forces participating in the Partnership for Peace which are already binding on the Republic of Croatia as a participant of the Partnership for Peace and which in their provisions provide for the possibility of concluding specific arrangements between interested countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The presence of a civilian component, members of their families who travel and live with them and foreign contractors of the United States and their employees who provide services to the US military, will also be arranged with a detailed regulation of the status of the armed forces of the military component. The initiative to conclude this agreement was given by the United States, which concluded such a type of contract with a number of other NATO member states as well as those participating in a partnership for peace such as Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Great Britain, Germany, Montenegro, Serbia and others. Croatian-American relations, there are several sentences that are important to say about them when it comes to confirming this agreement. So our relations and relations between these two sovereign states exceed the frameworks of classical bilateral relations between the two sovereign states in those, these relations include partnership and alliances in promoting common values, democracy, transatlantic and regional co-operation in the face of global challenges such as the fight against terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, internationally organised crime, illegal arms trafficking, drugs and even people. Therefore, strengthening partner and Allied relations with the US is one of the permanent priorities of the policy of the Republic of Croatia no less significant than when we mention the European Union and NATO. It is also important to mention that this entry trend of very good political economic overall relations was given an additional swing first of all by visiting the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader Washington in October 2006, and in particular by visiting President Bush in April this year shortly after NATO summit in Bucharest, where Croatia received an invitation to join the alliance. From this visit, from many statements by senior US officials, it is clear that the United States sees in Croatia a credible ally and a true partner in the stabilisation and democratisation of Southeast Europe. Often, the United States points out Croatia as an example of countries in implementing root reforms. Also in the process of NATO and the European Union integration. Regarding the Homeland War in which 15 thousand people laid down their lives for our freedom, and in which the Croatian people fought for their freedom, we must not forget the fact that the change in the international community's policy towards the disintegration of the former SFRY was halted by war aggression on Croatia and BiH and the achievement of peace occurred only after the active engagement of the United States. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia today as a free, independent and mature democracy now and a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, soon the NATO Alliance also contributes to the security and peace of the world. We are participating in 17 peacekeeping missions, the largest in the ISAF mission in Afghanistan where it is now, we are participating with two hundred members of the Armed Forces. By the end of this year, there'll be a little less than three hundred of them. This agreement allows for more intensive joint activities and partnership relations between Croatia and the United States, by strengthening defence and wider cooperation in the fight against international terrorism,... Weapons of mass destruction and organized crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Negotiations for the conclusion of the additional sofa began in June 2005, 5 rounds of negotiations were held involving representatives of all ministries responsible for the implementation of this agreement as well as Croatian Air Navigation Control, the Croatian National Bank, and representatives of the main headquarters of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Agreement shall regulate the rules and conditions under which the US forces, the civilian component, family members and, under certain conditions, the contractors of the United States and their employees are staying in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and their entry into and exiting from the state territory of the Republic of Croatia, the use of criminal jurisdiction facilities, the regulation of criminal jurisdiction, the conduct of an investigation in the event of an accident involving forces of the United States, detention, visits, prisons, therefore various security issues, official exemption from payment of taxes, personal exemptions, shall be determined by a special regime for driving licences and customs procedures. Also issues of providing various military services, including the sale of food... military postal offices, the issue of using foreign currency, changing money in general, and relevant issues related to the use of municipal services, as well as the use of their own communications and connections by the US forces have been listed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about this agreement, it is also important to say a few things that have been asked through the previous debate as a question or here and on the committees, it is about the movement of armed forces, members of the United States Armed Forces in Croatia and their freedom, about some procedures... It should be said that even now the movements so far, we had this year and last year the joint military exercises were regulated with and signed agreements that I mentioned in the introduction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the status of the NATO member states and the peace partnership during their stay in the Republic of Croatia was governed by an agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other states participating in the Partnership for Peace. The agreement stipulates that the duty of forces and their civil components, their members as well as family members, respect the legal order of the state in which they are located. The stay and movement of members of foreign armed forces across the Republic of Croatia before, during and after military exercise is strictly tied to the purpose of their stay, it is not possible to move them unsupervised, each international military exercise is planned in detail, regulates a number of documents such as the Framework Memorandum of Understanding, Technical Agreement, operational plans and commands in carrying out the exercise. The procedures for entry into the Republic of Croatia, movement to the place of exercise, accommodation and accommodation of members of forces and their exit from the Republic of Croatia after training are conducted under supervision with the support of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. they are a standard part of the support of the host country. It is also necessary to clear and remove some of the dilemmas that have arisen in public, whether this is the creation of some assumptions for the permanent deployment of American forces or the establishment of any bases, so it is not true, and this agreement is not in any way, does not create any assumptions for the permanent accommodation of American forces or the establishment of any bases in the Republic of Croatia. Here, therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this law that is to be adopted, thus confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States and the legal position of the US forces in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14519	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Defence Committee, Mr. Chairman of the Board, Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14520	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, in the capacity of the home working body, the Committee discussed the proposal for this law. Now I'm not going to say what the proposer's representative said in the opening statement because he said it here, he's even expanded it, but I'm just going to say what were the objections that were such that 5 out of 13 board members said because 8 committee members voted to confirm the agreement, and 5 board members were abstentioned. Therefore, in principle the discussion raised the question of transparency in the conclusion of the agreement because the agreement itself had no classified information and there was no obstacle to publication after it was signed, it was one remark. It is pointed out that, now more important, Article 5 of this Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has waived the rights of the primary criminal jurisdiction, except in the case of special circumstances referred to in Article 5(3) of the Agreement when it may withdraw that waiver. However, according to Article 6 of the Agreement, if the competent authorities of the United States inform the competent Croatian authorities that jurisdiction is questionable, the governments of the parties to the agreement must decide it. So it's about a consensual jurisdiction that, now let me not interpret further through this report. It has also been pointed out that, above all, it is a political agreement between a major force and the Republic of Croatia and has been requested by the Prime Minister to answer questions related to the criminal jurisdiction that I have already mentioned and to explain why the agreement has been announced that this fact has been signed so that it was only done on 23.6. when the bill was sent to the parliamentary procedure. And as I've already said, the board, with eight votes in favour and five abstentions, has proposed that this law be passed at this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14521	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14522	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, First, I must express my sincere surprise by this afternoon's gathering, which is not normally the case in this House. Secondly, is this agreement disputed? On this a little later, however, this agreement that is here before us, which bears the title of the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the United States of America, etc. He opened one another, in my court perhaps a far greater problem than whether the forces of the United States will be or will not be present on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. This agreement has also raised the issue of functioning no more than Croatian broadcasters. Croatian broadcasting acts literally as a military polygon from the ban on journalistic elite, and that is certainly not good. So this is how I read 5.7.2008. "In the morning" and all other newspapers also, Spratz accuses every news story of the HDZ summit, and the controversy allegedly arose precisely because of this agreement. In general, I don't think these opportunities on television are good, what's going on there isn't good for television, for parliamentaryism, it's not good for the credibility of information. In this case, I don't want to put myself on any side, because in this case, when it comes to Croatian broadcasting, it's hardly that man can find the right side at all, but I don't think it's good there. So much for an introduction. As far as the agreement is concerned, is this agreement controversial? Finally, US Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia Mr. Robert Bretke said that he had arranged everything with some of the SDP, which Mr. Milanovic will tell us. So if that is the case, if all is agreed, then it is expected that all MPs will vote unanimously for this agreement. I also don't think that you need to radicalize these relationships, you don't need to question everything. But what is questionable is whether this raises the question of sovereignty, whether Croatia is forced by this agreement to do something that Croatia does not want or that Croatia is not in the interest at the moment. What is for me, however, and we will talk more about this second agreement on Afghanistan or the report, etc. What it means to us is disputed, it's this war in Afghanistan where at this point we have 270 soldiers, and by the end of the year there can be 300. It may not be controversial either, but it is controversial that the Allied forces are literally losing the war there. The problem is that no matter how many of our soldiers are dressed, I'm afraid the worst may happen among our soldiers. Otherwise today we have a chance to read that with... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14523	Mr. Representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14524	Well, I guess I'm right to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14525	I have a right to break up, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14526	You're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14527	And to warn you to stick to the agenda, because I am obliged to warn the MP if he discusses issues that are beyond the agenda point to interrupt it and take away his word, it also reads in the Rules of Procedure. So please do not discuss the global strategy and problems here now but focus on the agenda item on the Croatian Parliament's agenda. And you don't have to... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14528	I'm not dealing with world issues right now, but that's the point of the agenda that's going to follow this one. And I wanted to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14529	And then when it comes, you'll argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14530	I just wanted to say that more soldiers died in June in Afghanistan, Allied soldiers, than in Iraq. As far as the deal goes, let's get to the deal. First, we may need to be far more precise, we probably all agree with that, but we are told that it is a type agreement, but I still want to believe that Croatia did not go under that time-old promise that it will not avoid the International Court of Rome when it comes to American soldiers in the Republic of Croatia. But now the question arises whether we went beyond these requirements by this agreement. We are told here literally on page 2, that the agreement thus regulates the entry and exit from the state area of the Republic of Croatia of American soldiers, the use of facilities and areas, criminal jurisdiction, the determination of criminal jurisdiction, the conduct of an investigation in the event of an accident involving the United States of America's forces, detention, prison, visits, various security issues, official tax exemptions, personal tax exemptions, official imports, exports, imports-exports of personal property, motor vehicles, etc. etc. Where are there certain exceptions to this law now? This is primarily here on page 8 where it is said in Article 4 that the United States forces in the use of these facilities and areas are obliged to comply with the laws of Croatia as agreed in Article 2. Then, I know that Croatia is negotiating, for example, with the United States of America on visa waiver, but in this agreement in my court, there was an opportunity to tear something apart, so that perhaps something more could be done about it. What is also important, it is said here in Article 5 of criminal jurisdiction that Croatia recognises the special importance of the strict supervision of the military authorities of the United States over the members of the forces and the effect of such surveillance on operational readiness, thus promoting its commitment to mutual defence, Croatia is, in its sovereign position, disowning, giving up the primary right of application of criminal jurisdiction as provided for in Article 7. Then page 9 is spoken where the competent Croatian authorities consider that the special circumstances of a particular case, and in the interest of the Croatian judiciary, the exercise of Croatian jurisdiction may be necessary to recall the waivers of the right given in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article through a written statement addressed to the competent military authorities of the United States. Then in the case of traffic accidents that I don't speak, and now in the case of detention and access, too, prisons and possessions have also been arranged specifically for these legal terms to be expressed in terms of regimes and the like. It means we almost recognize the soldiers of the United States exteriority on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. True, the Republic of Croatia is not a banana state so normally that our position is somehow protected by this agreement, but it could also be much better and more fully regulated regardless of the type contract, but I am now interested in the following. We agreed to these terms, and what do we get in return? To be clear, the United States has never been blackmailed by anyone, so neither will Croatia nor God allow us to imagine that we can perform in this way, but I think that in some way the government could insist on liberating I do not know Croatian citizens when they travel to the United States, meaning these visas, and not only that is my impression, on Bruno Busic. As far as I'm concerned, which these days I'm guessing he's back in the Republic of Croatia, I'm not sure, but I think he is. As regards Article 12, or 13, which speaks about security and claims, what is interesting in the United States is excluded from paying VAT. Indeed, this provision regarding value added tax, VAT in brackets, exemption will apply to goods and services acquired by or in favour of the United States forces, etc. So with the stage of Istria, which builds the Ipsylon in Istria, the only U.S. military in this country is free of VAT. Come on, it's good that the U.S. Army will at least pay the so-called. Communal fees. But so I don't get out of the picture, but I'm asking the president to take care of others when they're speaking from this pay phone to stick to the agenda. I will say that the previous opinion of Urbroj: 71-03/2-08-02 of 20.06.2008 was given by President Mesic and would be against this agreement in some way be against, under the allegations of President Mesic, and this is certainly not what the IDS wants, and we will vote so clearly for this agreement. But no matter what I think, we can be far less servial in the future than we are. Clearly, the Americans do not need Croatia for some bases, nor will it have some larger military contingents here, but I think that every country and Croatia will have their own dose... He's got to keep it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14531	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Maybe it's a chance to warn. In fact, the only weapons of the chairman that he can use in the assembly are the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so I will refer to some of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 210, which says, you know, but it is not burned again. The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda. If the speaker does not hold on to the agenda after the second call, the President will take away his word and in that case he will no longer be able to participate in the debate on the subject. Otherwise, please, the assembly of MPs in the assembly is normal and the expected state and activity of MPs and should not cause any surprises when MPs are gathered in the assembly, because it was normal for them to gather every day at the sessions and, of course, as many as possible. And secondly, I don't think it's appropriate to comment on the contacts of diplomatic representatives of foreign countries with individual political parties or individuals, because it's not for debate at the assembly. And what does that mean if we're talking through the assembly about how he met with some ambassador this one or that one. It's his right to meet, talk, negotiate, etc. and is not subject to discussion at this assembly session, particularly within this point or any other item of the agenda. I beg you, Agent Cain has asked me to warn others if they are further away from the agenda. It's my assessment that Mr. Cain has moved away from the assembly to Afghanistan and that it shouldn't be the subject of this debate, but if there are other cases, of course I will warn. I ask my colleagues that we stick to the real points of the agenda, it is in everyone's interest to finish what we should and what is expected of us to finish by tomorrow, or by the deadline of the regular meeting of the Croatian Parliament. That's it. Forgive me for having to intervene, but better now than 10 times later. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14532	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The first and most important thing I would like to stress at the introduction is this. This law is based on good international practice that regulates these issues. Good international practice that regulates these issues for a long time, and this international practice has been defined by NATO SOF's 1951 provisions, then PFP SOF '95. A year. Finally, we must not forget that the bill and what we want to adopt is also the result of certain bilateral relations in the past 15 years between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Finally, I will remind those who do not know, back in 1994, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement on military co-operation with the United States of America in the Pentagon. This is certainly an important fact because it should be said that in these past 14 years, this bilateral military cooperation has had a series of tests, a series of verifications, proved in every sense both political and professional and military that it respected mutual respect and the highest standards. In the end, the following is said. The President of the State also gave a positive opinion on the proposal for this law. And when we discuss and comment on this law, then all these facts should be taken into account. Well, I would say those facts should be respected, but sometimes it's not a custom. The strengthening of good partner friendly relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States was a constant and one of the priorities of Croatian state foreign policy and should be highlighted, from recognition in 1992 to the first bilaterally important military co-operation agreement, precisely 29.11.1994. These good bilateral partnership relations which have nevertheless been based on mutual trust and respect, not only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the interest of peace, stability and security in these areas, without the involvement of the United States Government. Let's remember back in '93. And '94. The year the UN in a mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina experienced a debacle would be difficult for peace in these areas, and these are the facts that should be mentioned very much. The culmination of these good partnership relations took place in October by visiting the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader Washington, and then visiting the president of the United States in April 2008. In this context of good friendly relations that last, which have their own history and which have their results and obligations should be seen also in good faith, and in good faith this agreement but should certainly be analysed by any provision of this bill, as well as by fully reading each article without a point, and that it did not happen at the end of the sentence, looking at the whole, not pulling fragments, not from fragments to try to assign to this law any other whole and in that sense, and that it is important that each, not just a parliamentary representative, but that every Croatian citizen, whenever he wishes, can read all the provisions of this law completely. The interpretation or reinterpretation of this law in the wrong way, in a way that does not correspond to its spirit, are not in anyone's best interest and should certainly be taken into account. NATO SOFA, PfP SOFA, are documents that allowed military co-operation to begin in 1994. I will tell you from personal experience I remember well when the first American officers from the foundation of the contract with... began to come to the Republic of Croatia without the appropriate legislative framework, without the appropriate standards of each visit, every arrival in the Republic of Croatia was a procedure that was exhausted by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, etc. and therefore there is an appropriate standard, appropriate procedures which are clear, transparent and which have the sole common objective of ensuring bilateral cooperation, ensuring multilateral cooperation in such a way as not only corresponds to partner interests, but as it corresponds to the interests of the whole region but also to wider international communities. What I would like to highlight is NATO's first peacekeeping operation in 1995 following the signing of the Dayton Agreement, would not be possible without so-called. PFP SOFA's mission in 1995 was really the first major operation in which NATO began to teach some other things that were significantly different from what it was trained to do, with its equipment, with its doctrine, with its way of thinking, and these were wars of a completely different character. The continuation of the peace operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina without PFPSOF, SFOR, as well as the equipment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces, i.e. the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the so-called Traine equipment was based on these standards. The agreement we are talking about here today is governed by the rules and conditions under which the United States forces of civil components, family members,... and under certain conditions by the contractors of the United States and their employees are staying in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. These articles regulate their entry, exit from the state area, use of the Republic of Croatia, use of facilities and areas, fines of jurisdiction, determination of criminal jurisdiction, conduct of investigations etc. Furthermore, issues of providing various military services, including food sales, establishment, association and maintenance of military and postal offices, etc. are regulated. Many of you are known so-called. PEXs in which usually officers, soldiers of the United States Drava try to have those standards that they're used to. Furthermore, what I would like to stress specifically would be related to some articles of this law and let's try to analyze a little, for example. Article 4 relating to the use of facilities and areas. We can read these articles in different ways that suit us. Here is a way), meaning Article 4(1) of the United States Force is authorised to access and use facilities and areas in Croatia. If anyone reads this article, then for a reason Croatian people could be imagined and doubted about something called limiting sovereignty. However, the law does not write and does not stand in that form. The forces of the United States are authorized to access and use facilities and areas in Croatia on which an agreement has been reached, on which the agreement has been reached. Article 2 military and civilian personnel of the United States and contractors of the United States of America and vehicles, vessels and aircraft operated by or for the United States of America may use facilities and areas. That's one way of interpreting it. However, with good faith and responsibility, this article needs to be read to the end, so it stands, they can use the facilities and areas on which the agreement was reached. Furthermore, everything else the parties agree on in the use of these facilities and areas is obliged to comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Croatia recognises the special importance of the U.S. military law on members of forces. For anyone who's a professional soldier and an officer knows what that makes sense, but you can't just stay on Article 1(5). but you must also read paragraph 3. Where the Croatian authorities consider that, given the specific circumstances of a particular case in the interest of the Croatian judiciary, the exercise of the Croatian jurisdiction is necessary, they may call for the right of the given paragraph 1 of this article to be denied. Next, determining the sentence of jurisdiction. After the competent authorities of the United States have informed the competent authorities of Croatia that it is doubtful which authorities will have jurisdiction over some offence by the Croatian judicial authorities dealing with the case will stop until the governments of both states decide on jurisdiction and thus need to interpret and read all other articles. Here, for example. Article 21 of the military service activities. The military authorities of the United States may establish directly or through a contract to maintain and manage military service activities, shops and other retail facilities, open canteens, social and educational centres and recreation facilities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia on which an agreement has been reached. This is important to emphasise, on which an agreement has been reached for the use of by members of the civilian component forces and family members. What it writes here is a good standard that the United States forces have with almost all the countries especially NATO member states and members of the Partnership for Peace. Security. Croatia will take all necessary measures to ensure the proper security and protection of the United States of America's members of the civil component, and what is always important to highlight that agreement has been reached. Everywhere, this component is something that shows a partnership relationship and shows that there is no generalisation, that there is no general rule, that there is no giving up any sovereignty, but every single thing that is usually said is analysed on a case-by-case basis in accordance with what is the interest and what the Ministry of Defence at certain times through its training, training infrastructure and the rest can offer during joint exercises. The relationship and partnership with the state of Minnesota has lasted 15 years. Of course, this partnership, joint exercises, joint training and everything else requires a kind of high standard that these people, when they come from the United States, come to the Republic of Croatia and that reciprocity applies. Therefore, the whole law needs to be read in detail and to establish the fact that I highlighted at the outset. This law is based on good international practice, on NATO SOFA, on PfP SOFA, for 15 years of mutual cooperation, and ultimately on the previous opinion given by the president of the state, and for all that has been said and for all that is in this proposal, the HDZ Club will give support to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of this Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14533	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14534	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At first, in the hope that you won't interrupt me for breaking the Rules of Procedure, I must stand in the defense of Agent Caine who merely quoted what he read in the papers, and I am telling him at this time that you can sleep peacefully because there was no agreement, and that there were any powers of my own. I'm talking about a deal with the foreign ambassadors. And no one past this House can make a deal. We have listened to different tones in this House when it comes to international military cooperation, contracts, agreements, powers transferred to foreign organisations, alliances or states, and now, by adopting this agreement, we come to the final point of the process. Therefore, Croatia is entering NATO and must regulate its relations with some entities in the context of the process, where the US government is the largest of these entities, and therefore the agreement is the direct consequence of Croatia's entry into NATO, and it stands in the preamble. The history of such arrangements during Croatian independence is all sorts. As MP Cosic said, we can interpret the agreement in one way or another, there is a trap. The agreements must be as clear as possible. And it's clear that these are political agreements like any agreement that regulates this matter. And it is equally clear that this status of foreign forces in the early 1990s was practically particularly free, that their movement and other privileges was almost unlimited, that the action of the peace-keeping operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina was regulated in fact by another agreement, not the PfP SOFA, but the Dayton SOFA, which was generally taken or left in Dayton in 95, and gave international forces absolute powers in Croatia. The PfP SOFA you were talking about is something else, it is an agreement that was created among the members of the Partnership for Peace and Croatia joined it in 2001. On that basis, this Agreement shall be drawn up. As far as the matter of the agreement is concerned, I'd say it follows the practice. If he follows good international practice, which is such a term that would be more appropriate to trade law, or to follow existing practice. The imperative of time and space we live in is another question. And this is also a topic, and this is a question that I will be free to ask to the esteemed defence minister, and to which I expect the answer, and to what extent will depend on the support of the SDP club to this agreement, which we consider necessary in principle, that it is even inevitable and that it represents the first practical and legal manifestation of Croatia's entry into NATO. It's two organically related things. You can't separate them from each other. We must also be reasonable and fair in this judgment and say that even Croatian soldiers who participate in international peace operations under the auspices of the UN or NATO also enjoy a certain degree of protection at least this size and that if we expect something for ourselves, we must at least think about giving the same kind or similar kind of privilege to others. And besides, without much wisdom, it's simply a system that was so set up many years ago. And we know that it is also a political condition for the ratification of Croatia's NATO accession by the US Senate, it is not said here but that is to be said. So unless the Croatian Parliament accepts this agreement, the US Senate will not ratify Croatia's accession to NATO. This is "quid pro quo," sorry, this is "son qua non." So without this, it's not working. Now we are coming to what was mentioned at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure last week which did not make a decision, he postponed the decision on the contrary, taking into account, in some way, the consideration and proposal of the motion for a constitutional basis and some kind of exposure offered by us from the SDP at that committee's session. Namely, with one general principled willingness and awareness that such an arrangement is inevitable for Croatia and that it represents the consequence of Croatia's entry into NATO without any dramaticisation, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this agreement, or which majority of them are required. We are of the view that a two-thirds majority is needed and that Article 139(2) of the Croatian Constitution is applied, and not the paragraph 1 of the Croatian Constitution, as proposed by the Proposer, and that paragraph 2 of Article 139 of the Croatian Constitution states that international contracts conferring powers under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are confirmed by the Assembly by the two-thirds majority of all MPs. So qualified majority. Why do we think that's the case? No specific clarification is required for the applicant as regards Article 5 of the Treaty on the Status of the American Forces, which clearly states that criminal jurisdiction is primarily in American hands. So given the need for discipline, US military organisations and so on, as already in most cases, the Croatian state for the benefit of the United States is denying the criminal jurisdiction of one of the fundamental constitutional rights. Not only was it derived from the Constitution, but it was the right contained in the Constitution. It's deeply rooted in it. In certain circumstances when it is in the interest of the Croatian judiciary, according to the Croatian proposal, or in the original "Administration of Justice", which could thus translate Croatia can withdraw that concession. But then we come to Article 6 which the applicant interprets differently or does not interpret it, and so my esteemed predecessor stuck to just reading it and confirming actually what he said before that we could interpret it one way or another. But I'm saying we can't do anything different than this. And he says, "After the competent authorities of the United States have informed the competent Croatian authorities that it is questionable that the authorities will have criminal jurisdiction over some crime," I added this criminally, but that is, the Croatian judicial authorities dealing with the case will stand trial until the governments of both states decide on jurisdiction. So until the governments both by political agreement, by political agreement, because that's what governments do, they don't decide who's in charge. This is a question. Could it have been negotiated differently? Let's just say it couldn't be done. Let's say that this degree of protection or immunity from the jurisdiction of the receiving State also enjoys Croatian forces in Afghanistan. That's how it's part of the United Nations arrangement. However, the fact with which I hope I cannot argue is that in this case there is a sharing of Croatian sovereign law, and Article 2 of the Croatian Constitution says that the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is inalienable, indivisible and insufferable and spread throughout the territory. In this case, sovereignty or decision on who is criminally competent shall be shared in accordance with good international practice and hence, it is also a matter of adjudication or division of a constitutional law. Therefore, the need to ratify it by a two-thirds majority. Yes, gentlemen. And therefore back to the starting point of these discussions about NATO. This is an important topic. The public should have been informed earlier simply in order to sensitize the public, to avoid any populism, and this debate is precisely directed in the other direction, so to explain to the public that by entering NATO and other associations, Croatia shares certain sovereign powers and that this is good for the Republic of Croatia because we do not run away from this responsibility. That's what we've been saying all along. And the first practical manifestation of Croatia's NATO entry leads to an arrangement in which we share something. A similar status has our strength in Minnesota and it should be said correctness does. That's how the system works. That's something to explain to the citizens. And when we explain it, then I believe there's no fear. And back to the story and about the NATO referendum. Why did we claim that it is necessary to respect this document that Croatia has a referendum? Because to a certain extent, some sovereign rights will be shared. And to take citizens as partners in this process, we can only profit. In the end or at the end, one question specifically for the applicant. One dilemma stemming from the reading of Article 12, whose title is Security. Here we are looking for a clear explanation of what was meant when this was signed because this is really an article that we can interpret both one way and the other. But we can't interpret it at all and it can have security and then political implications. The security of the United States forces and members of forces and civil components or family members is therefore discussed. If that security is compromised, the US military authorities may take appropriate measures to maintain or restore order and discipline in the facilities and areas on which an agreement has been reached, in which the US forces are located. This part is more or less clear. So it could be a designated camp space, military. He's easy to define. This is defined by technical agreements. But the next sentence is questionable. Outside these facilities and areas on which an agreement has been reached, the US military authorities will act only in agreement or together with Croatian authorities. What are these areas, and what are these situations? We can imagine them but the negotiator and whoever signed this contract had to have a clear simulation of such a situation. Otherwise there are possible problems. Problems we'll all have to deal with later. Unnecessary problems. Because we witnessed neural situations 10 years ago when according to those arrangements, according to those thin arrangements on the UN status, UNPROFOR members of those forces committed certain violations, so it couldn't be determined who was in charge? So only real life and diplomatic and political co-operation will allow this agreement to be implemented in the interest of both sides. But before that, we need to speak openly, and we need to present these things to the public. And that's why the message is that there must be no fear. But yes, we do share, we really share jurisdiction with the United States of America for criminal jurisdiction. Yes, indeed. And their government will finally decide whether the Croatian court is in charge or not? Yes, indeed. It's a sharing of sovereignty. It is, indeed, the case referred to in Article 139(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Yes, it really takes a two-thirds majority. So I will ask the esteemed Proposer to explain to us what this situation is and what comes from the course of the negotiation process because I know from personal experience that each of these articles has been searched several times through the negotiation process and that these issues have had to be asked. I'd like to conclude with this more or less I'll do it again. The principled support of the SDP Club to such an arrangement, the principle of support that will depend on some of the answers that we expect as well as on the important procedural issue of the two-thirds majority which is not only procedural for us but is essential because it refers to respecting some of the fundamental postulates of the Croatian Constitution which we will obviously have to change because it is clearly not up to the situations in which we are now. For this is a situation neither against the Constitution nor within the Constitution but beyond the Constitution. This is about transferring sovereign powers to the state. Not the alliance. Not an international organization. It's a situation the Constitution didn't even predict. So the state, not the alliance, is given as a consequence of membership in the alliance some elements of sovereign rights. That's even more than giving it to the organization. However, we stand in this position, aware of the necessity and Croatian interests. Of course, we would like to hear the proposal's exhaustive explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14535	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14536	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to the objectives of foreign policy, the text also supports certain objectives at national level by adapting to international standards in the system of carrying out the tasks of the Republic of Croatia as a host country to one of the partner countries, so we will also support the adoption of this proposal. We would also like to point out perhaps open issues regarding this issue, which concern the overall problem of the concept of support for the Republic of Croatia as hosts of partner countries. Analysing the proposed solutions, we believe that the bill is solid, but because of the urgency and shortness of time, a quality debate or debate with a particular profession or experts at relevant levels within the relevant ministries such as the Ministry of Defence, Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs, Financial and Other Central Authorities of the State Administration has not been sufficiently conducted, and given the importance of the problem, it is necessary. We also highlight the fact that confirming the agreement will increase the scope and structure of the task of the body to participate in its implementation. Also for any creation of a quality agreement one of the preconditions in addition to previous experiences in this area is the adoption of a concept of support for the Republic of Croatia's forces by partner countries. The plan for the supply of infrastructure facilities of the armed forces of other countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the catalogue of capabilities for the Republic of Croatia and other necessary documents resulting from commitments made under international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or has access on the basis of international contracts, which are documents ensuring the implementation of NATO and European Union partnership objectives. Those documents, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, should be adopted by the President of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The holder of the documents should be the Ministry of Defence, with the participation of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces in the section relating to the armed forces. We don't know if these documents were brought or at what stage they were made. In other words, we would like to say that for some serious action in this area it is necessary to achieve appropriate organisational operational-planning and other procedures, with particular reference to the operational framework among competent institutions. Only by building appropriate capacity to implement the necessary measures can it meet new tasks and standards in this area. In addition to this, we point out that the Republic of Croatia has set NATO integration as one of the main objectives of foreign and security policy through the National Security Strategy. Following this goal, preparations are being made in all areas of the functioning of the state, which will ultimately result in meeting the conditions for NATO membership. Although the Republic of Croatia has formally started preparations to support the host country in the planning and decommissioning process and the accession action plan, its participation in this activity comes during the period and after the end of the Homeland War. The first experience in supporting foreign military forces has been gained by the Republic of Croatia by supporting UNPROFOR troops in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and later by supporting NATO forces also in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The frameworks of concrete activities of developing the concept of providing support to the host country are defined by the annual national programme and adopted by the partnership objectives in the framework of the planning and decommissioning process. The support of the host country is civil and military assistance provided in peace, crisis and natural disasters as well as technical factors and during the conflict by the host country to NATO forces and partner countries and international organisations located on host country territory carry out operations on its territory or just passing through transit through host country territory. The support of the host country is an important factor in any possible military or civilian military operation or military exercise in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in which the forces of NATO and partner countries are involved with the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the biggest open question is that the text of the bill does not include provisions stemming from certain principles such as public notification, competence and the setting of priorities for meeting the requirements. What do we mean by public intelligence? Regularly implementing public information during activities with Allied forces, for activities that have a greater impact on the work of the local population in whose area certain activities are carried out, while in the principle of competence, we believe that the provisions of Article 3 of the Law regulate the implementation of this law in the area of the Ministry of Defence and we think that it would be good in this article that it is written and that in the case of joint exercises, disaster or technical incidents with US forces, the holders of planning, surveillance and implementation of activities are the State Defence and Rescue Authority and the Ministry of Defence, or the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As in the case of joint operations, exercises and transit of US police troops in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the holder of planning or surveillance and the implementation of activities should be the MUP of the Republic of Croatia. However, in the end, I would like to say that the HSS Club will support the bill because it better regulates the rules and conditions under which the US forces will reside in our area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14537	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14538	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement, we heard, is the result of good international practice and good bilateral relations. If so, we are truly surprised that this good international practice and that good bilateral relations are hidden from the Croatian public, from the Croatian media, from parliamentary representatives for three months. Gentlemen, the signing of this agreement was to be announced, with the content of this agreement, it was necessary to state what the agreement differs from SOFA. Instead, we are discussing this agreement in the middle of July when Croatia is on vacation, we are discussing at 6pm and 3pm, when everything we are going to order to each other here today will not be able to get into the most visible news, on the radio or on television. That's really embarrassing. This Parliament ratified the basic contract and the additional protocol of the agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and other states participating in the Partnership for Peace, the basic contract in 2001 and the 2004 protocol. We've made an effort at the HNS club to put on the table a basic contract and protocol and this agreement and compare the articles that are just touching the most important elements of this agreement. So you're going to let me generally say that at first glance it becomes clear that the agreement differs from the basic contract in both military and civilian and that part concerning family members and in what is new in the agreement, and these are the contractors and their employees, so in all parts the agreement differs from SOFA. It's already said by the predecessors something about it, but you're going to let me go into something more detailed, I'm not going to go into details, but I'm going to mention all those articles, because there are 15 of them even that are significant in this debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Croatia will not require co-signing of movement orders. SOFA is expected to co-sign movement orders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Croatia has waived the use of criminal jurisdiction, which has already been discussed. In SOFA, it's not like that. Article 6 refers to jurisdiction. It is said that the states will agree jurisdiction in the agreement, in SOFA it is not. Article 8 states: The statement of the highest... The U.S. martial law is sufficient evidence of facts, etc. [[You don't understand.]] So it's enough that they say that what happened, that damage that took place, that person who died that it happened during the official duty and it's all settled. There's nothing to be done. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. During the investigation, an American soldier or a civilian will be detained by the United States, according to SOFA. The recipient takes over as soon as the charges are filed. It's not like that here. This Regulation shall enter Military police, I think the United States can act in communities near objects and areas. In SOFA, it's not like that. That seems to be along with our military police or the police. So I can't act on my own the duties they're giving themselves right now. Article 13 is extended to civilians. In SOFA, it wasn't like that, we mean court proceedings that are conducted in the same way as the same rights for American civilians. By the way, I'm just saying that this civilian component with regard to the workers their contractors are going to hire refers not only to the citizens of the United States but to anyone they hire, to any stranger, which is a little sad. Article 22 of the Exchange Jobs. Change jobs, they can do whatever they want. They become currency exchanges, cash transactions, etc. In SOFA, foreign exchange regulations apply both to the US and Croatia. Article 23 services and construction. U.S. regulations apply, therefore, to exteriority. Article 24. Contractors do not pay taxes, do not pay VAT, no customs duties, no work permits, no job registration, nothing in SOFA is the case. If it comes to profitable jobs, and these people are going to build something, provide services, earn, in SOFAs they must, when it comes to profitable jobs, clearly succumb to the obligation to pay taxes. Article 27, no more arbitration between a colleague and a colleague in disputes. When it comes to SOFA, then there's arbitration, then it's the North Atlantic Council, and he's not here either. Therefore, work was done in a completely wrong way, a completely wrong approach, and we would really like to know why it happened, why you couldn't announce the signing of the agreement, why you couldn't tell us earlier the content of this agreement, and why you couldn't tell us why you were so far away from SOFA in so many articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14539	Thank you. The question has been asked whether the public was on time familiar with this agreement. Perhaps she should have been familiar earlier, but I am informing the MPs that this law entered the procedure on 26th, that it was addressed to MPs 23.6. so three weeks ago and that more or less the public could have been introduced and, despite the fact that this agreement may have been signed earlier. It could have been delivered earlier, but 21 days of public knowledge of this and the content of this agreement. Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14540	Good morning, whatever bless you. And I really believed that no one could take away from us anymore, but when I read this agreement, obviously at least a part of it could. I will not support this law, first because the Proposer is called on the wrong constitutional basis, and secondly because too many questions are asked and too few answers given. This agreement regulates the position of military and civilian components of the United States on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the shortest it reads is wherever the military and civilian components appear becoming an exterior part of the United States. We can wrap it up in cellophane, rely on good or bad practice, but the facts are just like that. Especially because the issue of tax policy is also given full freedom and Croatian regulations are not accepted. In what circumstances can this Agreement apply? In the circumstances of military exercise or do not give God transit for the United States military operations of the United States and when Croatia becomes a member of NATO, and when the military forces of the United States reside within NATO on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, the question is now being raised, and I have listened to interpretations that similar agreements have been signed by other countries, so I ask preventively, is there another NATO member who will seek the same or similar agreement with Croatia or just this one? Second of all, it's about reproduction. However, this agreement concerns the position of military and civilian forces in Croatia, not Croatians in the territory of the United States. So I ask if, at the same time with this agreement or law, we will ratify an agreement that regulates the status of the military and civil components of the Republic of Croatia on the territory of the United States, if the proportionality is satisfied? Further to this, the draft law was also submitted to the document of the President of the Republic, which is called the previous opinion. I want to believe that you all have the same document as me, so I'm asking someone to explain it to me, and maybe the promoter knows that, as the President of the Republic has said before. Namely, the President of the Republic wrote to us that at the request of the Prime Minister, he gave a preliminary opinion, Class, number, Urb, a shrub, but I couldn't find out from this document what this opinion was, positive or negative. What does the President of the Republic feel about the agreement that was passed by law to the Parliament? Is it written here somewhere in that memo? It says it's given a previous opinion. And what an opinion that is. So I'd like to ask if it's possible to add a previous opinion where Mr. President of the Republic would write what he thinks about this agreement. And finally, the issue of Croatia's final decision to join NATO alliance. It's awe-inspiring and communication with citizens. A lot of time and effort has been made, individuals have traveled all over Croatia presenting the benefits of such a decision. However, why is it happening to us at the last minute that those decisions are coming to Parliament and what the public for a reason follows with concern, because it is not sufficiently informed, and why this strategy of communication with citizens by the government and the executive authority did not contain a clear message that we would have to accept certain rules, I heard that they are common, which is also a part of sovereignty passed on to one of the NATO members. Not NATO, but one NATO member state. Why did this hot potato not explain to the public or to the citizens the Office of the President of the State or Government, but is now in the Parliament to explain to the citizens why we must adopt this law, ratify this agreement at the last minute, and that all participants before this procedure wash their hands and keep their mouths shut. All of them are out of this, except for Parliament, which will be the sole and final culprit for having ratified something, adopted or accepted what is still questionable. Is there any other agreement, whether there will be any other obligations of the Republic of Croatia to this NATO-like character, which will again come from the drawers or the paths of diplomacy of the representatives in Washington or anywhere else before the Parliament, so that we will be the ones who will be brought into the situation that we have to discuss in which article of the Constitution we will ratify and whichever majority. For this reason, and I expected this law and agreement to be explained by the prime minister, as long as these questions are not clearly answered, I do not deserve my support, because I do not think that such serious matters should be approached as long as we do not at least clear in Parliament which we are going to adopt or adopt the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14541	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Defence Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14542	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are some clarifications or attempts to answer these questions that have arisen through the debate. First of all, I want to say that this agreement is not hidden from the public anywhere. He went according to procedure as provided by law, I will not say that it would not have been better if he had come before, so it would have been, but there was time for discussion and no one was hiding or secretly done, because in the previous procedure, and even in agreeing and agreeing with the proposal, the Office of the President of the State was consulted and an immediate clarification of the president's previous opinion is given in case he agrees with something. If the president of the state disagrees with something, then he will not issue an opinion. Therefore, such previous opinions were obtained from the president for all those laws concerning the Ministry of Defence and the usual practice of the form and form of that previous opinion was defined by the Office of the President himself, so I cannot and do not want to comment on whether it should be explained, spoken more or less, but therefore it is a common matter. When we talk about the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, I can tell my proposings, therefore, or express my position to assess it. I was in the Obora session for the Constitution. I'm committee for the Constitution of this body. We, therefore, based and previous SOFAs or basic SOFAs, which was adopted in 2001 by the ordinary majority in the Parliament, went through this series of proposals, and I also want to highlight what nobody has read here today, and I did not stress, but perhaps it should be said that the text of the preamble agreement clearly states that this cooperation, which we are discussing is based on the full respect of the sovereignty of each of the parties, and the objectives of the Charter of the United Nations. Therefore, the foundations of respecting the sovereignty of each country for this agreement and the Charter of the United Nations. When I talk about Article 12, it should also be read in full. In fact, Article 12 speaks about security, Article 12 of the first sentence states that Croatia will take all necessary measures to ensure the proper safety and protection of the United States, members of the forces of the civil component of family members in the facilities and areas on which the agreement has been reached. Therefore, Croatia is obliged to take all measures to ensure that security is adequate. Under these responsibilities, Croatian authorities will work closely with the authorities of the United States to provide adequate security and entry and exits from such facilities where the United States forces are located. When we read further Article 2 then it speaks of what you said....that security, if security is the strength of the United States, members of forces, civil components, members of the family at risk of military authorities of the United States can take appropriate measures in the facilities on which an agreement has been reached, and outside these facilities only in agreement with the Croatian authorities with which they otherwise agree on security insurance. Therefore, outside these facilities only in agreement, only with the consent of Croatian authorities or with Croatian authorities. When we talk about SOFA and the differences between basic SOFA and now additional, then I could read all the basic SOFAs I repeat adopted in 2001, ratified in the Croatian Parliament. Many things where they may have been introduced in a faster way are also the jurisdiction of these forces that come or countries that send forces to Croatia. ... I will quote some of the items that say: "that the military authorities, therefore, is SOFA ratified in the Croatian Assembly by the ordinary majority of 2001. The military authorities of the sending state whose state territory of the receiving State have exclusive criminal and strict jurisdiction... with the law of the state of shale over all military personnel." Or we can read further in paragraph 3 below: "the military authorities of the state of shale states shall primarily have the right to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over a member of the force or civilian component in respect of a misdemeanour against property... If the State having the primary right to decide does not exercise jurisdiction, it shall be notified to the authorities of the other State as soon as possible. The authorities of the state that have the primary right will have the understanding of the request of another state's authorities to waive their right in cases where that other state considers such a denial extremely important." Or we can read further, six a: "The authorities of the receiving State and of the impediment state will assist each other in carrying out all the necessary investigations in connection with the offence as well as in collecting and finding evidence including confiscation, and in appropriate cases and handing over cases related to the offence." Or b: "the authorities of the parties will inform each other of all cases of which there are competition rights to the exercise of jurisdiction." It's an old SOFA. Additional SOFA if we are going to call this agreement today a subject of debate, in fact, further clarifications and introduces some new rules that are common in the countries where I have already mentioned it, and I don't think they really differ from the usual practice I don't speak good or bad from the practices that have the strength of the United States of America in the area, on the territory of other countries when they're located in the territory of the majority that I'm going to end up saying what this law is,... I suggest that this committee therefore, that the Croatian Parliament determines which majority of these laws should be passed, but what is certain is this Confirmation Act, this agreement with the United States of America is extremely important. The United States is a strategic partner and this agreement is based precisely on respect for the sovereignty of both countries and in the interest of those objectives that I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14543	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a debate on this agenda item. We will decide tomorrow on this and after the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system gives its opinion on the necessary majority to pass this law Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the legal position of United States forces in the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. Number 120. The debate is closed. The adoption of this law requires a two-thirds majority of all MPs. So 102 votes as well as the proposal for a Constitution for the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. Please include, therefore, the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the legal position of the United States of America in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. It takes 102 votes. Here, let's vote. Let's get on with it. ... The Committee concluded the second. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What's the score? This law was passed by a majority vote: 121 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14546	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. I'll try to explain briefly if I can for all three points. First of all, the Proposal for a Decision of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the European Union Peace Operation in Chad and Central African Republic. By participating in this peace operation, the Republic of Croatia confirms primarily its strategic goal of membership in the European Union and thereby contributes to the European Union's ability to manage crises. This proves Croatia's readiness to actively contribute to one of the long-term objectives of the European Union's common foreign security policy, which is to support peace and security in the area of Africa. The adoption of Security Council Resolution 1778 created international legal assumptions on the basis of which the European Union adopted its political and legal binding acts and decisions to establish a peace operation in East Chad and Central Africa. The tasks of these forces are to enable the deployment of the political forces of Chad trained by the UN, to ensure the conditions under which humanitarian organisations will provide humanitarian assistance, to allow the creation of favourable conditions for voluntary return... to enable the creation of conditions for the start of a longer-term civil reconstruction and to increase the level of security for the civilian population including refugees and displaced populations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After an analysis of this availability of forces within so-called Chief Staff of the Armed Forces within the Ministry, a team for tasks and reconnaissance made up of members of the Croatian Armed Forces is proposed to be deployed to the area of operations during September 2008. The financial resources for these participation costs are provided for in the positions in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The Government therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police, civil protection, civil servants and subsistence officers in peace operations to make decisions in the European Union Peace Operation in Chad and the Central African Republic within six months to 15 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It also obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament following the completion of the participation of members of the Armed Forces in this peacekeeping mission. When it comes to Afghanistan, I would therefore like to say that the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan has been since 2003 when the decision was made. A sign and very visible and transparent way of proving Croatia in terms of its contribution to peace and security around the world in a series of missions and so on to this one in Afghanistan. From 2003 to 2008, our armed forces showed a high professional level of their readiness to carry out their tasks and became a reliable partner for NATO forces. Operation ISAF covers mostly the area of maintenance and peace building and provides assistance to the Afghan government in building and maintaining a security environment in Afghanistan. I would like to remind you that the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 8 December 2006 approved the participation of up to 2 hundred members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF Peace Mission in 2007 and up to 300 members of the armed forces that should be, therefore, in 2007. Two hundred members of our forces and in 2008 to three hundred members of the armed forces. By the end of this year, we'll have just under three hundred members of our forces. Currently, there are 206 members deployed in three regional commands. Therefore, according to the Law on Defence, the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations proposes a decision to refer to the Peace Mission in Afghanistan in 2009 to up to 3 hundred members of the Croatian Armed Forces, with the possibility of rotation, thus no increase than to remain at the level we have this year. Also, as prescribed by the current December 2006 decision, this decision proposes the same composition, or the same structure of our armed forces. So, the commander of the national contingent, the national intelligence team, the national logistics support team, the organized police force, the infantry, the mobile surveillance team, the operational mentor team, the mixed medical team, the personnel of the provincial reconstruction teams and staff. I would also like to say in the end that this decision proposes that the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation, number, organisational structure of members of the armed forces for each rotation, which generally takes six months, and that the Government undertakes every six months to report to the Croatian Parliament on the status of the mission and the work of members of the armed forces. And the third proposal for a decision on the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in the NATO Peace Mission in Kosovo KFOR. The UN mission to Kosovo, UNMIK, was established in 1999 by the Security Council Resolution. The mission's core tasks are to carry out basic civilian administrative functions, to coordinate international humanitarian aid, to assist in the reconstruction of the most important infrastructure, to preserve, to promote civil human rights. The completion of NATO's military-technical agreement in June 99 enabled the deployment of troops to Kosovo KFOR in the province under the mandate of the United Nations. The NATO defence ministers made a decision opening the way for KFOR to start training and new Kosovo armies soon after the new independent state's constitution came into force. By participating in this peace operation aimed at preventing the restoration of hostilities and building a secure environment, and what is important to emphasize in our immediate neighbourhood, the Republic of Croatia has a direct impact on increasing the level of its own security and the Republic of Croatia is also proving its commitment to preserving regional stability and the willingness to participate in the efforts of the International Community to build conditions for the security of all ethnic groups in Kosovo. Given the recent entry of the Republic of Croatia into full NATO membership and the upcoming ratification process... contracts by NATO member states The Republic of Croatia is being profiled here as a reliable and responsible ally to be taken over... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] obligations which strengthen our political and military credibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Law on Defence, the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations, take a decision to refer up to 20 members of the Croatian Armed Forces with two Croatian Air Force transport helicopters with the possibility of rotating. The decision obliges the Government to determine the duration of rotation, number and structure of members of the armed forces for each rotation, and obliges the Ministry of Defence to report to the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the work of members of the armed forces in the implementation of the peacekeeping operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14547	Thank you very much. In all three of these proposals, only this last proposal for a water management strategy has been tabled by the Committee on Legislative Amendments. I'm asking if the committee reporter will take a word on these proposals. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14548	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. What order do you start? Somehow, let's get out of Kosovo because it's kind of the closest thing to us. We see the mission in Kosovo according to this argument it was established in 10.6.1999. Here it is very precise in this motion to decide who is there, what is she doing, what is she in charge of? Croatia, as we have heard, is currently participating in 15 of these missions under the hat of the United Nations. We're in one of NATO's hats. Now we'll be floored, and in Kosovo. So two o'clock. And for the first time, we should go on a mission led by the European Union, which is this mission regarding security in Chad. The mission in Kosovo is another means a NATO mission to participate in Croatian, Croatian soldiers. What are we doing? The minister said Croatia is sending to Kosovo twenty soldiers who should de facto, who should de facto supply two military helicopters to the Ministry of Defence M-8, MTV-1. So it's two crews, a pilot, a copilot, a flyer, a technician who'll be working on the maintenance of the plane and so on. The mission includes two of our older MI-8 helicopters, which were modernised in 2004 as part of this Croatian and NATO cooperation in such a way that the United States has funded this service of these helicopters with communication and navigation equipment worth $1 and a half million. The equipment was given by the Americans. They were renovated in the Czech Republic. What it means to say about this, this decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in NATO. First, I personally want to believe that this decision will pass. It's better that our helicopters are finally going there than Afghanistan. Afghanistan dares to say lost mission. In the fifth month far more soldiers died in Afghanistan than in Iraq. The war is moving to Afghanistan to the north where Croatian soldiers are located. What I've tried to say before, I'm afraid our soldiers will suffer there. And we should sort of prepare ourselves in case of one of those scenarios. Is it equally necessary to consider whether it makes sense to send soldiers into lost missions? So I'm going to do it again better than to have those helicopters go to Kosovo instead of going to Afghanistan. What's gonna happen? Our two helicopters mean they're going to Kosovo and two other helicopters from Kosovo are going the way of Afghanistan. One or two helicopters are worth approximately as much as one or two hours on the ground. Croatia has 20 helicopters. Of those 20's 10's new ones we recently got from Russia based on so-called. The clearing debt and I think it was one correct business of the Department of Defense and I think it's a good thing that it finally happened. All in all, IDS will absolutely support this Croatian sending to troops or soldiers to Kosovo. It seems to me that the opportunities in Kosovo are peaceful and I think it is also good that within all these countries, which are Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Finland, Georgia, Ireland, Morocco, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine and so on are Croatian soldiers present in Kosovo. A few weeks ago, Serbia won a new government. I absolutely wish this government every success, every happiness. The government will be a pro-European government. She began to return these diplomats to countries that have recognised Kosovo from which she withdrew them and I am not expecting any problems in northern Kosovo at all. Kosovo is clearly an independent country. Kosovo has recognised Croatia, Croatia and I think that Kosovo is helping in this way in particular. It is, she as a state is a reality and I don't think anyone in Belgrade is slow anymore. The truth on the other hand is one of the poorest European states. EUR 1774 per capital. They have a 40% unemployment rate. Kosovo has been a European issue for almost 10 years. Europe now held a donor conference to help Kosovo a few days ago, and by 2011 about one and a half billion euros of assistance should be sent down. That I do not now list Europe 500 million, Germany 100 million EUR, America 300 million and so on. And I want to believe that some of that money through certain jobs could also be used by the operations of the Republic of Croatia and as much as I don't think it's going in that direction, but it can also help send our soldiers to that country. Otherwise, from 1999 to 2007. Kosovo has used around EUR 3 and a half billion of various international aid to rebuild. Europe participated in this with EUR 2 billion. So all those who followed the flow of money knew they were following the international recognition of the state. That is why, and it will be the job and future ambassador to Mr Kramarić, it is good for us to be down there. I also want to believe, not that I want to believe, but it's simply true, these two helicopters down there, it's not an act towards Serbia. Being in Kosovo today is not an act against Serbia. Croatia and Serbia clearly must develop good neighbourly relations. Croatia, Serbia is Croatia's significant partner and vice versa. It is good that Croatia opens, I don't know, to tourists from Serbia. That's where we make a significant surplus in the trade. Croatian companies were in Serbia last year another investor right behind Switzerland and as we abolished visas I think so now Croatia should place Serbia in the same customs order as the European Union countries because it cannot endure for long that our surplus is 300 million and more dollars, and on the other hand we are defending their goods presence on our market. For the end of this Kosovo, Belgrade is surely aware today of this reality of a new state, a country recognised at this time by 43 world countries, almost all European countries, are not all but almost all. The conflict in my court is not expected down there, that's good. This unfortunate Balkans needs peace, destabilising relations in any country in the region destabilises Croatia as well as reverse bad opportunities, destabilising Croatia, destabilising and opportunities in our environment. I want to believe that soon these political relations at the Belgrade-Pristina route will be stabilised, and I think that Croatia, the Croatian president who also gave this previous opinion, did not make a mistake when they made, how to put it, a principle decision because without the Parliament, it cannot go, on sending our troops to Kosovo's space. As for the report on our troops' participation in Afghanistan, I just want to say that 46 soldiers died in June in Afghanistan, in Iraq in June, under allegations of "only 31". In NATO, they claim that June, when it comes to victims of the alliance, has been the most fatal since the start of US intervention in Afghanistan in autumn, means 2001. Today we had a chance to list, read, hear that in Afghanistan died somewhere, don't take my word for it, or six or seven American soldiers, and wounded three or four. Of the meaning of the beginning of these conflicts or rather the presence of international forces in Afghanistan killed 527 US troops and 310 members of other coalition forces mainly from the UK. In Afghanistan, respected gentlemen, the situation is getting more dangerous, our mission down is becoming more and more numerous, by the end of the year or the beginning of next year we will be approaching 300 numbers, I'm afraid someone can return, or rather say there and die. I know it's all top-of-the-line trained professionals, they're doing their job great, but on the other hand, if great work is done by politicians, not by those in Croatia as much as those in the United States, Great Britain, etc. On which is also a burden, under the quotes of "pacision" and many human and vast states out there somewhere in the Middle East. In 2001, I voted for the mission to Afghanistan, I ask myself whether today, last time, I haven't voted for it, I said it was a huge country and extremely unstable, and I'm afraid that this mission will not bear fruit, God forbid I'm wrong. I know, all the soldiers who went down are volunteers, they simply asked the Minister or the President or the Chief Staff to be sent down, but when it comes to their safety, there are a lot of questions. Each mission costs the state budget, in 9 months, means the mission to Afghanistan cost 153.2 million kuna, in 12 months it will be around 200 million kuna, if the number of our troops increases to 300, that figure can reach 300 million kuna. That's somewhere I know, seven, maybe more, eight percent of the military budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is currently under five billion kuna, or something above 4.5 billion kuna. What's also interesting is that when it comes to our soldiers down there, there are certain shortcomings. First of all, the equipment of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, here even says that it is necessary to fully comply with the specifics of the climate in which the power is directed to the specific tasks of each component in the mission, to form a single national element of support that would centralise the supply, storage and distribution of the necessary material resources for faster and easier supply of all components of the contingent and to promote national values and good, promotion, I don't even know here mention some tourist destinations, national dishes, drinks, etc., let's easily for food and drink, it's not important now, but what we must simply do now cost, cost it to train, equip soldiers to avoid unwanted actions. I know it's costing it, but it's our boys' duty to do it or go out with it. They're just fighting there, they're still lucky they don't die, but they're not turned off either. All in all, I think most will support this decision, personally at the very least, I will be restrained in contrast to a decision which, right here, speaks of sending soldiers to Chad or the Central African Republic, which we will understandably support. Croatian forces today go to various missions that certainly are better and do not give God that anyone ever needs help to send forces to the ground of the Republic of Croatia. We found ourselves in an unwanted situation in '91. '95. By '98, many countries had their soldiers on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, at one point 11, 12 and 13 thousand soldiers and it is understandable that this country that today becomes a country of peace exporters has an obligation to repay to others who are us in that wartime in '91. '95. help. All in all, IDS will support this decision, and personally I said, IDS will support the decision on Afghanistan, but I will personally be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14549	Thank you. This syntagma that Croatia is an exporter of peace is not exactly in good correspondence with this, but it is good that we are exporters of peace. At least that's what I think. How are we going to export if we don't send peace missions? Okay, thank you. Here, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14550	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's to respecting this time I'll try to be brief and clear. First and foremost, I think that most in the Croatian Parliament agree that the proposal for these decisions makes Croatia take significant international commitments to build peace and security in the world through NATO, the European Union and the UN peace operations. This is a very strong political message and a strong position that the Republic of Croatia is proving to be on the side of those more developed modern democracies that are making significant material and human efforts to control today's turbulent security scene of the modern world to a greater extent than possible. The first decision is related to the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan. The Republic of Croatia participates in this operation with 40 other states, 26 NATO members, Partnership for Peace, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Japan and many other countries are in the peace operation with very significant responsibility not only for the number of people but also for the tasks that these countries perform. Certainly the number of 300 people in this demanding peace operation several thousand kilometers away from the Republic of Croatia is a very demanding and complex logistics task. A demanding logistics task and, in any case, a major challenge for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the main headquarters and all incoming units that and for all those involved in the peace operation. This is very much as is said and highlighted and a certain non-small financial commitment which is in the integral part of the defence ministry's budget. But what's important is to point out for a professional soldier there's no better challenge for confirming their abilities than all those challenges and difficulties that impose these peace operations and therefore there's a professional soldier, a professional officer, an officer who has to take on such obligations, and I'm sure most of them who participate in these operations want it, it's a challenge for them, it's a confirmation because it's part of their life, it's their professional career. In any case, when considering a relatively large number of people in relation to the beginning of the peace operation of Croatian troops in this remote space from 50th to today's 300th, making sure that these forces are distributed across different areas of Afghanistan and are tied to different jobs, then very much before the commander of the national contingent, there are no small challenges, great responsibility and in any case such tasks confirm the capabilities of the commander and we need to be sure and I would say the Croatian public deserves to know more and hear more of these people who are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but not only in our interest really do a lot of things that ordinary people might be familiar with and what ordinary people might and have to appreciate. Certainly the hardest part of the job refers to our so-called. "Omlet team" which has the task of training the troops of the Afghan National Army, so-called "Anne." These people are wanted today, taking on responsible tasks, and in any case everything they have done so far has not only been fully known, recognised and recognised by NATO, and it was I who would say a very good message and recommendations to the Republic of Croatia when various political bodies decided on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full NATO membership. Movement observation teams also have important and responsible tasks, tasks that are also sometimes risky because they often lead them to routes or corridors passing drug convoys. These are the moments of maximum safety risk. The National Intelligence Support Team has a very important task. The dedicated organized military police force has been in these areas for five years, and I often knew when a man came and when he landed at Kabul International Airport, the first flag he saw was the Croatian flag that then followed mostly all those who visited Afghanistan. A mixed medical team at the Kabul International Airport in co-operation with the Albanian and Macedonian medical teams also has an important task as are our participants participating in the province's reconstruction team in Chakcaran. In any case it would be very challenging and interesting to see what that space looks like, I would say maybe the moon is a nice place compared to that area from which almost four months is almost impossible to get out during the winter season. Therefore, this decision is an important decision, this decision confirms the Croatian commitment to participate truly with NATO Member States, but also with all others, it is necessary to say not only the European Union but also the World Bank and many other institutions, the IMF, participate in the reconstruction and stabilisation of this area, because in any case, the tasks are much more complex and surpasses the opportunities of soldiers and therefore the jobs of stabilisation, reconstruction, rebuilding institutions and are becoming increasingly important and taking on an increasingly important role in these areas. The following tasks are related to the proposal for the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the European Union mission in Chad, which only proves and shows that European defence and security policies are better profiled and takes on some important tasks on the international stage. In any case, this security operation is also risky, demanding and I am sure that the main headquarters with all its institutions will select up to 15 officers, officers and soldiers who will be able to take on the challenges of this task in quality. The other day at these premises, seven peacemakers of the United Nations lost their lives. It is therefore an important, challenging, difficult task taken by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And finally a few words on the mission, on the mission of participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in Kosovo as part of KFOR. This task and this obligation is not numerically so demanding, is not demanding given the character of the terrain and the security risks and challenges, but in any case it takes a new dimension. Two armed forces helicopters from the Republic of Croatia will participate in the mission. Anyway, from a technical point of view, from a logistics aspect, from a security point of view, these are new dimensions. Maintaining such equipment on such demanding terrains and in fairly high safety risks is a new requirement and a new challenge for technical service and all other Croatian military units that will have to be able to respond to the challenges of working such complex equipment in very difficult and climate and all other conditions. All together, therefore, taking into account the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia not only as regards the number of people participating in these operations, but also the number of techniques and complexity and techniques, they are entering a new phase that is indeed in technical terms, logistically, this and financially becoming increasingly demanding and this is a new challenge, a new obligation that needs to confirm the ability of the Croatian military to respond to these challenging and complex tasks in each respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14551	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14552	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief, but we think these three points deserve our attention. First of all, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, we are very sorry that we are not working on a fourth point within this bloc, and this report is related to the participation of our units in Afghanistan for the previous period, because it seems logical for us to discuss the report first, to evaluate it, and only then to decide clearly on the further engagement of our forces. I think those soldiers deserve to be mentioned, analyzed, commended. I completely agree with my colleague, Cosic, about their engagement. And we're really sorry that we don't have a chance here, because if we're going that way, then we're clearly going out of agreement on these agenda points. For us at the HNS club, nothing is disputed about Afghanistan, when it comes to Chad, and we will absolutely support your proposals. Maybe I'll just answer my colleague Cosic to a sentence that's a little distracting to say that Afghanistan is a professional soldier's chance to determine his options. This must not be why we send our soldiers to Afghanistan, let them establish their capabilities at some military exercise site, and let them go to Afghanistan in an attempt to contribute to peace and stability in that country. What is controversial for us at the HNS, though not all of us are unique about it, but I must say that I am one of the strongest against such engagement in Kosovo is the following. I think you're Mr. Minister, and I think our NATO parliamentary delegation should have taken a different position. We are, our delegation to the Council of Europe is this job seems to me much better done. In fact, we managed to fight that when certain missions are sent to neighbouring countries or countries of the region, especially when the situation is unstable in these areas, people from neighbouring countries are not engaged. It means Kosovo, yes, but not clearly neighbouring countries. As a rule, as a principle, not to pour oil on fire, not to try anything, doesn't put our engagement into a situation, especially a military component. She's the most sensitive, and here we are in the Council of Europe, I repeat, taking a good stand. Everyone accepted that, and I believe that both you and our NATO delegation would be happy to listen, gladly and listen, and thus probably make decisions about the future engagement of our military, or armed forces. Therefore, you will receive our support with the recommendation that when it comes to neighbouring countries you will take a more stringent, clear position and in NATO itself, I think you will have their support and I think that this will further contribute to peace and stability in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14553	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14554	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, state secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the text in question of the drafts of these decisions, because they are also involved by the Republic of Croatia in peace operations and under the leadership of the European Union, thus supporting the objectives of foreign policy in terms of contributing to the development of peace and security in the world. In short, I will try to explain the reasons why we support the text in question, but I also want to point out perhaps open issues about this issue. Maybe I'll try to explain something in more detail about the decision that concerns the participation of our members in Chad. Croatia is harmonising its foreign and security policy with the views and actions of the European Union and thus offering it its capabilities at its disposal. With this mission and under the leadership of the European Union besides the United Nations, Croatia will practically be included in all crisis humanitarian hotspots around the world, but it is evident that this decision also takes care of our human, material, financial opportunities, and given the limitations of resources and capabilities. This European Union mission is somehow led by France, which, for historical reasons and is extremely concerned about the calming of the situation in that part of the world. In this connection, it should not be forgotten how it took over the Presidency of the European Union from a few days ago and more precisely since 01 July. We ourselves know that integration in the European Union is the most important and complex enterprise facing which is the Croatian state and society. Analysing Croatia's current contribution to peace missions around the world, it is evident that the number of our members has increased steadily year by year, so we can raise the question if we are in a bit of a hurry, or whether our activity and approach in this segment is in line with our current capabilities. Subject peace operation is a demanding character with an increased health risk, as well as a risk of the activities of armed groups, so you can never rule out cases of injury, wounding and God of death. We hope that the preparation and training of the staff to leave this group are well done, especially when it comes to respecting the country in which its inhabitants and customs come. Before this, we are not aware whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been able to initiate the issue of civil support for peace operations and other activities abroad. Viewed from the perspective of civil institutions to support the military segment, it is important to include economic and other opportunities in the logistic support of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO. In doing so, we stress the inclusion in support of Croatian Armed Forces troops participating in international peace operations, as well as members of the police, civil protection, civil servants, tenants, regardless of the tasks of civil institutions for the Republic of Croatia and elsewhere in the world of a newer character, and there is not enough experience yet. We think that the appropriate concept should also be prepared to facilitate the performance of tasks in this area. As part of this concept, the tasks, responsibilities and responsibilities of individual participants should be clearly defined and organisational legal and other solutions will be necessary in this respect. At the end of the debate, I would just like to commend and welcome all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, and civilian personnel participating in peace operations around the world for activities that achieve peace conservation and provide humanitarian assistance. The HSS Club will support these three decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14555	Thank you. Final review, Defence Minister Branko Vukelic. Come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for the support you have shown through the debate for these decisions we will briefly repeat these are really important decisions for Croatia. For the first time, Croatia is participating in a European Union-led mission. It's a mission to Chad. For the first time, we appear in the area of our region, and that is extremely important, because even in the opinion of the world's strongest states, I would say, even to countries in our neighbouring environment. We are the leading country in reform transformation not only when it comes to integration and membership in the European Union and NATO, but also by all reforms that we implement in the Armed Forces and adopt all standards. And it is also extremely important to stay with the engagement in an extremely important mission in Afghanistan, so this proposal would continue Croatia next year with the same forces it has this year that it will have by the end of this year. And here is just a brief indication of the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee I accept this amendment that applies only to point 3 where the words of the Croatian Parliament are added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14557	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. All these three points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14558	Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation in Chad and the Central African Republic. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The adoption of this law requires a two-thirds majority of all MPs. So 102 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation in Chad and Central African Republic, Eufor and so on. Please, let's get involved and vote. So it takes 102 votes. The result? This proposal for a decision was reached unanimously with 127 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14587	Let's go to the following: - The proposal for a Water Management Strategy is proposed by the Government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Ministers will hold only one notice in half 11 tomorrow to be the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on this earlier proposal of the Law on the ratification of the contract with Croatia-US on the status of military forces and civilian personnel. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Development and Reconstruction, Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Forest Development and Water Economy Zdravko Krmek will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14588	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, let me briefly explain the proposal for a Water Management Strategy. First of all, he wants to point out what we want to achieve in this document, which is primarily to ensure sufficient quantities of drinking water for public water supply and also to ensure sufficient quantities of drinking water for economic purposes. We also aim to protect our national treasure, our water, and also in this document we have defined ways and models to protect our water by building a system of public sewage, or by processing waste water. We also aim to protect people and material goods from floods and other kinds of harmful water effects. We also aim to protect and improve the state of water and water-dependent eco-systems. Here I want to start by pointing out some important newspapers that are in this document. First of all, I want to say that we have defined the water management structure here, on the principle of decentralisation, with a clear division at national, regional or local level. This document accurately defined four water areas as well as 31 water-based economics, and thus we will be closer to end-users, i.e. local and regional self-government units. I would like to say that we also implemented one part of the decentralisation of water management by amending and supplementing the Water Law that we adopted at the end of 2005 in such a way as to transfer the systems details of the 3rd and 4th order melioration discharge, i.e. the same irrigation systems to the counties and from 01st. In 01 2009, they will manage them, but will also receive revenue from the compensation for the melioration draining, i.e. melioration irrigation. I would like to point out clearly here that this strategy excluded the possibility of privatising the right to water resources. We have clearly defined this because in the future, concessions for public water supply or disposal will be granted to units of regional or local self-government and in this way we will protect the means that anyone will eventually come into possession of the water resource. Here we have another additional fuse, which is that we will transfer public water supply systems, i.e. easier said local water supply network or sewerage network through the new Water Act, into the ownership of local and regional self-government units and thus avoid the possibility of the bankruptcy of utility companies as we recently had an example in Velika Gorica where the municipal enterprise went bankrupt and then we had to find various ways to come into possession of a local water supply network. In this way we will ensure that we protect the meaning of public water supply companies. And just like I said at the beginning, we would rule out any possibility of privatising public water lines. I would also like to point out here that this document, or later on, will establish an independent water institute that will deal with issues relevant to the water economy and that will also carry out all scientific and professional activities related to water management. I would also like to add here that we will also set up an independent water service regulator in the form of a Water Services Council. Thus, this body would arbitration between the owners of utility companies dealing with public water supply or disposal and their utility companies in order to control precisely what everything goes into the price of water and how it is used and for what purposes. I would also like to say here that in the strategy, we have also envisaged the rationalisation of the municipal sector in terms of rounding up the public water supply or disposal activities, for reasons of having a more economical and lower water price than we now have, because we are witnessing that in certain areas we have too high and in other areas too low water prices. In the end, I want to add here what's most important, and that's how much it's going to cost to implement this document. First of all, I would like to point out that we are going to invest in public water supply projects in the next 15 years in a circus of 13 billion kuna and that with that amount, we are going to come to 90% of the public water supply level, which is the same average that is within the EU countries. Here we will also invest in public sewage projects, i.e. the processing of municipal waste water amounting to EUR 20 billion, and we will also come to an average of countries within the European Union. We will invest 4.5 billion kuna in irrigation projects and other projects also 4.5 billion kuna. The total amount of money proposed for the implementation of this document is $52.8 billion. Here, in the end I want to invite all of you here to support this document for the reason that Croatia has so far not had any strategic water management document and this is the first time that it is in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14589	Thank you. The Development and Reconstruction Committee? For regional development and the forest and water economy? For environmental protection? For spatial planning and construction? I'm opening a debate. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14590	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support a proposal for a water management strategy that is indeed a comprehensive document. And what we may be able to say with regrets that there is no time to actually discuss this strategy sufficiently with regard to the needs and water supply of the entire population in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the issues of flood draining and other issues related to water and we know that water is our strategic resource. We often call it national goods and, of course, one such strategy brought about by water management is a document on which water sector reforms should be implemented in order to achieve all European standards in water management but also to change the existing legislation in this respect, and we expect, of course, changes to the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act and the related sublegal acts. In the HSS, we also suggest that the ministry initiate the amendment and the Law on the Communist Economy because we think that because of the lack of the law, a space for the sale of drinking water sources is opened, regardless of what is different in the strategy, but I will explain it further in detail. It is certain that the fundamental objective of this strategy is to achieve a full and harmonised water regime across the whole state territory and in each of the four water areas, which includes ensuring sufficient quantities of quality drinking water for the water supply of the population, ensuring the necessary quantities of water for different economic purposes, protecting people, material goods from floods and other forms of harmful water action, and to achieve and maintain good water conditions in order to protect water and water-dependent eco-systems. It may be important to point out the fact that the Republic of Croatia is rarely said to be in the amount and quality of drinking water in Europe and that it would really be important to make efforts to maintain such a situation. It may be important to point out the fact that the Republic of Croatia is rarely said to be in the amount and quality of drinking water in Europe and that it would really be important to make efforts to maintain such a situation. The strategic goal of developing public water supply and increasing the level of water supply from public water supply systems from the current 80% to 90% by 2023 and we welcome and support this strategic goal in any case and we think that it is realistic and that it is suitable for European standards. This strategy also provides for the intensification of activities in the identification of the area of sanitary source protection and the implementation of appropriate safeguard measures and measures on the recovery of losses from distribution water supply networks, which we also consider to be a major problem for water supply systems because some lose over 50% of the water, which means that some pipelines are so perforated. If 50% of the water flows out of them, it means that as much waste can be entered into and this raises the correctness of the water that we provide our population with. Let us remember the recent cases from the city of Petrinja where there was quite an alarming situation because the decision, by an independent decision of the director of the municipal company, was put into operation not only one but several well-known sources of water that were not publicly sound and thus brought into question the health of the population of the city of Petrinja but also the surrounding villages and the surrounding area. What we welcome under this strategy is the circulation of a water-communal economy, or one concept of regional water pipelines, which should certainly provide better service to the population but also assume that it will bring a more favourable economic price when it comes to water supply. The total cost of implementing the Water Economic Development Strategy is estimated at €52.8 billion, of which around €13 billion is foreseen for public water supply projects, around €20 billion for municipal wastewater depletion projects and around €10.8 billion for flood protection projects and other forms of harmful water action. We can say that these are indicative estimates but certainly we at the HSS Club suggest that when detailed financial plans are made to also be addressed here for consideration in the Croatian Parliament. As already mentioned on page 101 of the strategy, it is envisaged that in the public water supply activity the possibility of indirect privatisation of water resources rights is excluded, and direct privatisation is explicitly excluded by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and by the laws which determine water as good of general interest. However, if the Law on the municipal economy is looked at, it is evident that it is not provided for in terms of privatisation of the infrastructure so that the private sector can indirectly acquire ownership of the infrastructure at springs as well as land around the source. By taking over the municipal company, the private sector enters the legal position of the company taken over and acquires the rights arising from the concession on the water resource. We therefore expect state secretaries to start amending the Law on the municipal economy and to very clearly define articles that are related to the possibility of privatising water supply, especially when it comes to drinking water sources and that this is certainly excluded because HSS absolutely opposes privatisation and water supply systems and drinking water springs because water is our national wealth. I would also like to mention that in the strategy some data does not actually reflect the real situation. Therefore, this data should be updated. I suppose it will be done through the production of the groundwater catastra itself but also if the data is not completely accurate or they are obsolete then all of these projections that are mentioned in the strategy are actually not entirely accurate and are not the most reliable indicator. We also believe that when drawing up this document, it was necessary to consult neighbouring countries in view of the fact that the largest number of waters of the Republic of Croatia come from neighbouring countries, and we think that this would be good because in this way they could communicate potential impacts on the environment both on their own and on the neighbouring countries, and this is also in line with the European water management, management and protection policy, based on the principle of integrated management of all aspects of water policy, which includes social, environmental, economic and financial aspects. Of course, in the context of this strategy it should also be remembered that Croatia is a social state and that it is necessary to discuss the very price of water. In order to follow the example of countries that determine the social minimum of water consumption by the number of household members who are not charged at all or are charged minimally while spending through that minimum is charged progressively, at the same time being an incentive to save water. It seems to us that the strategy only mentions the issue of the impact of climate change that will have a significant impact on Croatia especially when we look at all the countries in the Mediterranean and that Croatia can suffer the greatest damage by proposing that this part of the strategy is further done. According to the strategy itself, concessions for the use of water resources for the needs of public water supply are intended to be granted exclusively to units of local and regional administrations in service areas and those concessions cannot be given to anyone else, left without approval or without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but therefore we continue to insist that the Law on the municipal economy is also clarified and sharpened in that segment so that this would not remain just an empty letter on paper because the law is much stronger than the strategy itself. The strategy also states that concessions for filling and selling drinking water are decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a public tender but we certainly believe that municipalities, cities and counties should be involved in the process in issuing such an agreement. Of course, by means of the Water Law itself and the Water Economy Financing Act, the envisaged model of water distribution should also be regulated, which should, of course, be aimed at an economic dimension, which is that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia pay the same price of water regardless of whether they are on an island, in Slavonia, Moslavina or in Zagora. It must be recognised that the Government of the Republic of Croatia invests large financial resources in the development of water supply and such a strategic commitment by the Government has also been demonstrated by the adoption of the last rebalancing system where additional financial resources have been allocated from the budget to the construction of the water supply network and the improvement of water supply and disposal of waste water. The strategy is also planned for the 3rd and 4th lines to be handed over to the county authorities with the transfer of additional financial resources for their maintenance since these channels are in a very derelict state, so I do appeal on behalf of the HSS Club that it is so because the counties are not able to self-contained abandoned channels, allocate financial resources for their cleaning, this must be the strategic commitment of the state and that money must be reduced to a level of counties which will then, of course, call for tenders and grant concessions for channel maintenance. We also warn of the huge losses that occur in the waternets, we think that it is very important to take emergency measures, at least in a way that measures are put in place and that certain estimates are made because these losses are paid by users, which, of course, collects their costs, and at this very moment, really, when prices are priced is a cost that no one can afford, so of course, it is only important to implement the recovery of the water network. What should be appealed to, which should be talked about is the rational use of water, to encourage the users themselves, and to include pedagogical and educational measures so that the level of consciousness in that part and achieves, should not always flow water for 10 minutes when brushing teeth, or when washing dishes, and we know that sometimes those who do so do not think about actually doing harm, not only when it comes to water consumption, but when it comes to energy consumption. Of course, we should also think about the reports that we can read, which are related to corruption in the water sector, these are problems that are mainly related to other countries, I think that in this segment we have in time intervened with the amendment of the legislation that I have already mentioned, I believe that there are going to be very strong instruments that in such reports Trasparency International or some other NGOs are not found and Croatia is on the list because it is visible that corruption in the water sector is one of the causes and catalysts of the global crisis with water that threatens billions of lives and brings degradation to the environment itself, and we know that water is a resource that has no replacement, that it is the basis for our health, our energy future and our eco-system and today our 1.2 billion people in the world have no access to water, and 2.6 billion people living without proper sewers and in this way that we need to be responsible for our water to be able to be able to be able to be able to use water in this way to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to provide water in the water in a sound way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14591	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14592	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Water is most directly linked to human health, eco-system integrity and sustainable development, and therefore an effective water management strategy must help authorities, whether local or national to find answers to key issues such as how to use our water, how much water is available, how much water will we protect in the context of pressure and urbanisation? Water management requires an interdisciplinary approach precisely because it is an environmentally sensitive resource because water resources are characterized by the fact that every operation on water resources is also an environmental operation. The water resource is spatial and time-changeable, and each operation on water resources requires the harmonisation of diverse and often interoperable needs. The water management strategy should be a long-term plan document establishing vision, mission, objectives and tasks of state water management policy. So this is an important topic, and I really don't understand why we have to bring it a few days after we actually received it, especially because it's an extremely extensive volume document that simply requires a certain amount of time to be reviewed, especially those who are more interested in it. So, the strategy is a document that provides strategic definitions and guidelines for the development of the water economy, a framework for the preparation of strategies and spatial planning, environmental protection, nature protection and development of other sectors that depend on water or affect water condition, such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries, industry, energy, transport, tourism, public health and this mining law that we passed a few days ago and which actually has some solutions that are not exactly in line with this strategy. Unfortunately, this document that we are currently discussing represents, as I have said very extensive, sometimes a very interesting set of statistics, beautiful desires, compiling scientific papers, but not a useful strategy because the strategy is defined as a long-term plan of activity and actions aimed at achieving certain objectives, i.e. the strategy concerns possible choices, alternatives affecting possible outcomes of certain processes. But this strategy is full of out-of-date data. Let's just mention the data relating to the pebbly concessions, but there are some fundamental obsolescence data. In fact, daily problems with water use by many users, and thus the protection of water resources by the streams of our water streams, suggest the need to know the hydrological regime of water in the stream as necessary assumptions of proper management of these natural resources. Unfortunately, there is too often a lack of knowledge of basic hydrological and meteorological parameters on the whole streams due to lack of appropriate measurements, making the attempt to rationally manage water into domains of assessment and approximate hydrological budgets. In addition, the strategy does not quote international data. Unfortunately, and domestic data are questionable because, for example, the State Hydrometeorological Institute, which was entrusted by the company with the responsibility of measuring on the water resources of Croatia, three times more funds from the budget are invested in the defence of the fight than it does in maintaining the entire regular hydrological network of cells, and the defence against the fight can be compared with divination, falsification, etc. After all, the government itself has several times adopted documents that relativise the effectiveness of defence against fighting, but nevertheless, the State Hydrometeorological Institute is getting more for this purpose than for such necessary research as input data and for these important cells. Furthermore, they do not get enough for a network of meteorological cells, which, unfortunately, goes into modernization and all due to the lack but not adequate distribution of funds. Then we'll have strategies. Interestingly, there is no mention of the objectives of the Water Directive to achieve a satisfactory water quality by 2015. In addition, there is a full list of water-related directives on the Croatian Waters web site, but when you look at this strategy, you can see that it does not mention all these directives. The strategy lacks the so-called so-called strategy. the sum of the analysis, i.e. an analysis of the advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and dangers which is the basic tool of each strategic planning. But not only does there not have a sum of analysis but there are no other analyses, and there are no time frames missing. The objectives are set only at the general level and participatory objectives as if they do not exist. There are no financial indicators and financial strategies that should follow the water management strategy, although some figures are mentioned how much implementation of this strategy will cost the country. What about the choice of policies and the implementation of certain projects? There is no question about what laws and regulations should change, when and why. What dynamics would be behind it all. What is the relationship of the strategy to the existing legal framework or to the laws that will be adopted in haste probably again in the evenings away from the public's eyes and interests. For example, how this strategy fits in to reduce the area of Medvednica Park. In fact, at a session held four days ago, the government passed a bill reducing the area of Nature Park "Medvednica" and instead of protecting natural values and preventing wild construction, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, spatial planning and construction are committed to reducing the park's surface from 22,800 to 17,900 hectares. Is there an analysis of how this will affect Zagreb's waterbender and groundwater levels? It's a good thing we didn't adopt this strategy because the government would be in defenseless grapes because it would have to kill itself. Furthermore, there are no hierarchised aspects of water use leading to what, what priorities and why. The strategy also envisions the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel, and has not yet produced an appropriate environmental impact study. Interestingly, in the Water Framework Directive Europe promotes the revitalisation of flood river areas in order to regulate it naturally, but also to support the whole living world, which is significantly different from the approach and methods used by Croatian waters. Let's just mention the Mirna River case in Istria. The consequences of taking away the natural river Mirna and its captivity into the canal are very visible today. One of the consequences is the dying of the Motoun forest. Despite this strategy, this flood strategy treats only in the context of flood risk and flood damage. In the process of joining the European Union, Croatia will have to adopt standards that are often higher than the current ones, where rough methods of defence against floods, erosions and maintenance of waterways will no longer be implemented which the strategy unfortunately does not offer. A special case of the Sava River is like a river that is high upstream along its current has a nuclear power plant, and still does not have a regulated water flow. But on the issue of radioactivity, I will say a few words in a personal discussion. It should also be mentioned that water supply and draining are contrary to international experiences. Nevertheless, the strategy arbitrarily argues that the prerequisite for the implementation of the EU's financially difficult drinking water directive and for the processing of municipal waste water is, inter alia, reforming the water sector. It is not obvious why the reform would be exclusively related to the circulation. The strategy provides that the possibility of privatising the right to water resources is excluded in the public water supply activity. The award of concessions for the capture of water for public water supply is possible only to local authorities in the service field. Unfortunately, there are no concrete solutions as to how this is intended to be done and there is the possibility of the sale of water supply and disposal systems because unscrupulous self-governments can conduct indirect privatisation of water resources by selling their utility companies. Let's get this over with. With regard to water management in the Republic of Croatia, not the set of wishes offered by this strategy is needed, but a hierarchized, privatised, short, operational and clear strategy is needed. The strategic good that should be maintained as the public good of the Republic of Croatia is our important resource, our quality water and therefore this strategy should be significantly improved, not adopted in late afternoon, evenings by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14593	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14594	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State. First of all, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to congratulate both the Government and the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy on this document, which fully and strategically regulates water management in the Republic of Croatia for a period of two 15 years, during which the Republic of Croatia should meet the standards of water management at European Union level. This should contribute to increasing the standard of life for our citizens and sustainable economic development. It is commendable that this document went through a multi-month discussion of its own filter and on the ground and that experts have been consulted and that the document states that 11 scientists, experts and reviewed this strategy. The key line of this strategy is that the analyses of the existing state and development needs have shown that the Republic of Croatia has sufficient water quantities for its needs, and that water resources are not limited to its quantity and quality, not limiting the economic development factor. This conclusion from the strategy clearly states that water is the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia and that it is solely up to us and our ability to ensure that this wealth is a function of sustainable development and improvement of the standard of living of the population, and that its use does not question the biological and ecological sustainability of space. Despite major investments in water supply and sewage systems, Croatia is still not at the level of the European Union standards. More than half of the population, or about 2 and a half million, are not connected to drain systems, or one fifth to water supply systems. The goal we set ourselves for a 15-year period is to achieve an average supply of water to the population from public water supply systems from the current 80% to 85 to 90%, while the connected population to public disposal systems from the current 43% to about 60%, and therefore, according to this strategy, it is envisaged to engage around 33 billion kuna. It should also be noted that when we talk about these standards of attachment then we should also talk about the structure, therefore given the individual county, given the individual municipality, the city, or individual settlement. And there is certainly that this supply is also related to the economic financial power of a single unit of local self-government and it is therefore important that the state and Croatia lead therefore and the Ministry of Regional Development recognise the needs and continue to assist water supply and disposal projects, because it is certain that this infrastructure also has one of the key roles in keeping the population in certain areas, particularly rural areas, mountainous and generally more difficult living conditions. The HDZ Club particularly welcomes the continued activity of the Government on irrigation. Irrigation is part of the structural reforms of Croatian agriculture and, if we want to intensify production, we would especially like to realise operational programmes for the rise of permanent plantations, increase the area under vineyards, olive groves and orchards, thus ensuring that our producers are more competitive. It is necessary to continue to work on the implementation of the National Irrigation Programme. It is not particularly necessary to indicate how much damage we suffered in the period 2000-2007 related to droughts. It is also recalled that irrigation directly affects the economy of production. About 30% on average. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is particularly important to keep what is clearly defined in the strategy to exclude water wealth from privatisation, which will also decentralise the structure and water management system in four areas of management and 31 outposts, and will carry out a rationalisation of the municipal sector that manages water in a way that will form regional water pipelines that will cover the areas of cities and municipalities that have total water consumption of up to 5 million litres per year. The HDZ Club believes that such a model of regional structure should ensure more rational business and governance, even development and price setting at the level of the entire area. What has happened so far is that some cities have only raised water prices by one decision without valid arguments by 30%. I'll take just for example the city of Osijek. It was a manipulation of citizens and a deep reach in their pockets. Namely, why without arguments? Because the system still works so that enterprises that carry out water supply and disposal operations in the city, except by charging services to citizens, so to carry out municipal activity, these same companies compete and compete throughout Croatia for construction and disposal activities. First of all, it should be said that this directly encourages an unfair competition compared to other bidders who are exclusively involved in the performance of works. And secondly, that citizens through the balance sheet and through the business of these companies cannot have insight into what is communal and whether through the price of water, they also pay the business losses and losses from the business on the market. This is why the HDZ Club welcomes the strategy's solutions. First, to separate public and market activities in these companies, i.e. to new legal entities. Secondly, in the future, municipal activities will be able to be performed exclusively through a licence and that licensing will be conditioned by such a model, such a division. Moreover, the HDZ Club supports the establishment of an independent regulatory body which, as it has been resolved in some other activities, will ensure a more correct price formation, hence the calculation independently and on the basis of the arguments and professions, and also ensure that the price also contains a social component. In view of all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14595	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone, he doesn't talk about it. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14596	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This strategy mentions radioactivity in two places. Therefore, it is said that, with mandatory indicators of the oxygen regime of nutrients, microbiological and biological indicators that determine the general ecological function of water, additional indicators such as metals of organic compounds and radioactivity are examined according to specific programmes. However, the question arises as to what specific programmes they are, because in fact monitoring the radioactivity of the environment in the Republic of Croatia is being implemented according to the plan and programme that is in line with the State Department for radiation protection according to the rules in force. However, the fact is that in Croatia we have the Sava River as a river on which the Nuclear Power Plant "Krško" is located on the territory of the foreign country upstream. So, the Sava River is therefore an international dare to say the world phenomenon, because it may be the only river in the world where there is a nuclear power plant without it having a regulated water flow. Thus, in the event of a drop of water waste or an accident, we are in danger throughout the Sava River. This may be in conflict with the fact that both these flood areas and eco systems should be protected, but this is done in various ways by building appropriate channels, discharges, constitutions, dams, etc. It is interesting that the strategy specifically refers to the threat of the radioactivity of the nuclear power plant "Pakću" in Hungary and therefore examines the radioactivity of the Danube River at the Danube-Batina border station, and that it is also not specific for the Sava River, and when it is seen how "Pakc" is from Croatian territory compared to the nuclear power plant "Krško" it is mildly said one really illogical. And then it's said to monitor total beta radioactivity in water sedation, fish, hearing, etc. the cesium is monitored in the sediment. However, why beta radioactivity was precisiond, why the gamma radioactivity, gamma spectroscopy was not mentioned when it was actually complementary and much simpler, faster, more appropriate, and ultimately expected more yield, greater possibility of pollution to gamma emitters, than beta emitters, as I know the strontiums that were actually more dangerous in the context of atmospheric nuclear testing. Therefore, as a person whose life call is a protection from radiation and testing of the radioactivity of water and sea, I advocate that in the case of the first amendment of the document or of some regulations that will result from this strategy simply consulting the State Department for radiation protection or certain experts in order to actually modify this entire monitoring. And of course I have to take this opportunity and say that monitoring not only of radioactivity but of overall monitoring in the Republic of Croatia, but also of these transitional components of the biosphere which is therefore water is desirable to trust scientific institutes or laboratories working on scientific institutes and colleges simply because scientists do not have that binary approach to the problem, there is no, permitted, not allowed, above the limit, below the limit, but scientists are trying to get answers to the actual levels of certain contamination or certain values of certain seminals or elements. And in this way it is possible to monitor trends in the environment, which allows for the modelling of many parameters and better quality decision-making. Such an approach is appropriate for small countries of the Republic of Croatia and should certainly encourage monitoring to have a scientific component, especially in this context to encourage laboratories and test laboratories and moderate laboratories to be accredited because it would make their personal, their function more efficient and give better information for which they could then be used here and for this important purpose. Unfortunately, about the quality infrastructure in this strategy, I may have been wrong to find nothing, it would have been good to have at least once referred to that monitoring and these studies would be entrusted to the rules of accredited laboratories in order to increase the credibility of the data obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14597	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14598	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a water management strategy is a very important document for this High House, Croatian Government and the entire Republic of Croatia. Strategic planning is one of the fundamental developments of each country and the water management strategy is an important segment of the overall strategy of the Republic of Croatia. The water is too much of a general good and requires special care from the Republic of Croatia and cannot be owned by anyone. Without water, there is no life, and it is exploited under legally established conditions. The water is one of the most valuable natural resources of the Republic of Croatia and needs to be managed rationally. The criteria and priorities of water management should be established at national level without forgetting environmental protection and the achievement of general economic and sustainable development in line with the country's development policy. The water economy is required to provide an adequate level of services in the function of the health and safety of the population, food production and development of other economic activities, and to protect the eco-systems and the aquatic environment as a whole. This implies taking care of the spatial schedule and the state of the quantity and quality of the water and the construction of the water system in a way that meets the needs of the total state space and of each water and sink area. Individual requirements of various users need to be harmonised and reconciled with the possibilities of a natural built and water system control component. Since 1876, water lords have been organized in the Republic of Croatia until today. This management based on the laws of certain periods of our history has not always yielded the best results. I therefore expect this strategy to provide the best solutions for water management and management in the Republic of Croatia and all with a view to better development of the Republic of Croatia. As far as Dalmatian plums or even more concrete plums of the Krka, Cetina and Neretva rivers are concerned, their common feature is that most of the inlet area is located in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The river Cetina feeds on water from Buško Blat, Kureški, Šiško, Duvansko and Livanjsko fields and a large part of the Neretva basin extends deep into the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the territory of Nevesinski, Blatak, Fatničko, Dabarsko and Popov fields while in Croatia there are mouths and parts of the karst plum on the left and right of the river. There are also numerous coastal springs of the coastal coast of Dubrovnik because they are underground connected to the submerged areas of the Trebišnica River. The valley area of the Neretva River is large and is well-worked in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There must therefore also be a very intensive cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the protection of the waters of the Neretva River and water management in the Neretva Basin because Neretva feeds the sea with sweet water and is a very important quality and quantity of water that enters the sea and the continuity of the arrival of these waters throughout the year. The construction of dams on Neretva and Trebišnica in the 1960s, the 1970s, has damaged the natural water regime, which is very negatively affecting the ecological systems of both these rivers and the sea itself. Some species of fish are completely destroyed as is the case with the fish gaovica in the Trebišnica River in Pop's field. Some species can still be found in clues and some species mainly from the underworld have been destroyed without being identified at all. By building the Grančarevo dam on the Trebišnica River and concreteising the same river into a 68km canal, we can only guess today because precise measurements are not as much as the sweet water does not come into the sea on the move from Ploč to Konavala. How much reduced betrayal is hot and hot from the spring Omble via the spring Ugor, Janska, Sladjanovići, Budim, Smokine, Dola, Bistrine in Maloston Bay to Bađula, Masline, Mlinište, Spila, Bilokvira, Doljana, Crnokvira, Svetave and finally Lonđe in Hutt's Blat. I counted the sources but not all who fed on water through the sinks of Trebišnice from Pop's field. All these sources have reduced betrayal or have completely dried up and appear periodically during the great rains. For example, Trebišnice can be shown as a school breaker of useful permits and knowingly working on water translation. According to the old pre-war license, the hydropower plant in Trebišnica is obliged to release the so-called Trebišnice channel. The biological minimum of 6 cubic meters per second and at this moment as I speak here in the Parliament from the accumulation Gorica near Trebinj is released less than 1 meter of cubic water per second. The water channel Trebišnice through the Hydropower Plant "Capljina" ends in Hutt Blat, or in the Krupa River and then in Neretva and the sea. Because someone violates the existing regulations of Neretva and the sea every second does not receive 5 metres of cubic water and these regulations are written by experts and people based on studies and by natural laws that the dams are not made then these cubes would be calculated by two digits. That is why I join all those in the government and non-governmental sectors who are demanding that hydropower plant in Trebišnica's new use permit the amount of water for the biological minimum is increased. I would ask the representative of the resolution ministry to open this issue with the neighbouring country as soon as possible through an interstate water commission to release water called the biological minimum on the Gorica dam near Trebinj. The media is writing and scientists are warning that saltwater is. The sea reached Capljina, which is the result of the construction of dams on Neretva and Trebišnica. There's a lot of talk and he's working on phase two of the project. The upper horizons which will further complicate things in the valley of Neretva and Trebišnice and which could turn the valley of Neretva and the eastern Hercegovina from Capljina, Stoc and Ravno into a salty desert, and must have gone further north than Capljina towards Mostar. That's why we need a water management strategy. That is why we need to negotiate with our neighbours to prevent further disasters and eliminate already existing problems. I have concentrated on the waters of Neretva and Trebišnice because it is my end, and I believe that on other rivers, there are no such problems on other plums or if they are much less. And I can't skip the production of clams in Moloston Bay because it's very connected to the flow of sweet water from the space I was talking about. It is on the rise but the producers of pebbles and musks are just warning of this problem because it significantly reduces the flow of sweet water. By supporting the adoption of this Water Management Strategy, I also support its fundamental objectives. So provide enough drinking water for the population, provide enough water for the economy, protect people and material goods from harmful water action, achieve and maintain a good water status for the protection of water and water-dependent eco-systems. When it comes to water for the needs of the economy, I will mention short irrigation. In Croatia, there is currently very little area, about 15 thousand hectares. This strategy offers long-term solutions to address this problem. Finally, I support once again the adoption of the Water Management Strategy because whoever cares about water cares about the future and cares about life in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14599	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14600	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me, with a few indications, get involved in this as the predecessors have already said a really important topic because surely the Water Management Strategy has a great meaning. Today when we talk about the Law of Land, we know that it is the source of life. But that land is a dead organism without water. Earth becomes a desert. So there's no life without water. The same applies to a human organism that has 77% water in the body when a child is born. Aging disappears that water and we go below 50% and then we disappear a little bit. Ours, our country says when astronauts look at it from space, it looks like a blue, blue celestial body. That's right. There's more water than land on the surface. However, 97% of the water is the sea, the rest are lakes, rivers, springs. That's the drinking water we use. It means only 3% of the water on the ground. However, the vast majority of that water is trapped in the form of glaciers and is not usable, at least for now. Thus, the water we need to appreciate should be used in a rational way. But when we talk about INA in this last day of the INA, we need to know about the INA research and know that it also deals with water research and water sources, and therefore it's certainly even more valuable. And that's why it also represents a national company and uses the national wealth we have. I would only in this part of my second part something because I felt it was necessary to say that I also think that this water is very important and that this water management strategy is a really important document to say two things. The question of the influence of water, or the use of this water, and as is said in this strategy on the irrigation system. I think it is useful information that since 19, 19 of 20 counties have made plans that the appointed pilot programs Lovas, Bič, Bosut, Polje, Kaštela, Neretva and to produce project documentation for irrigation at 80 places in Croatia as well as the recovery of existing and construction of new ones. The project technical documentation from this strategy from idea-to-implementation should go for 40,000 hectares of irrigation. For 35 thousand hectares by 2010, systems would be built, and this requires significant emphasis on the security of 70 million cubic metres of water here. By 2020, another 65,000 acres and 130 million cubic meters. So a certain amount of water is also foreseen for irrigation systems. It also says up to four and a half billion kunas all of this. I think it's significantly related to this strategy because the normal construction of these, what's called system irrigation if there's no water then it won't normally be useful. However, another problem is related to irrigation, which is certainly a drain that is also important for improving agriculture. Today we have or are often witnesses when you go or are dry fields or if it rains then we see that they are flooded and often in TV shows we can see it. If the system, if there's more rain, something doesn't work right away, the water stays. So this disposal system was established in fields especially in Slavonia was quite in the melioration system built at the time of the combinations that were then. Today, unfortunately, these systems are abandoned. Everyone's looking for land, but there's not a lot of those who maintain this country, or those systems of melioration, draining, and I think it's better to say when it's more useful or efficient. She was, not because they were combined then, but because they were these rounded surfaces. Today, what we were talking about about the Land Act is that we are going and we need to go rounding and then it will also function and this system of melioration and draining because on larger surfaces it is both more quality and better possible and perform it. That is why it is certainly the goal, so here it is also mentioned in the strategy of bringing a meliorative drain network to a quality level. It means a level that will be effective, and then these irrigation programs that I used to talk about will work better and better. And finally, a few words about this Danube-Sava Strategy. A project that must be much longer is mentioned here in '91. years from the time of a free democratic Croatia, and the expectations of individual groups and branches of businesses are normally great of this project. But there are also opposing opinions. The arrangement of surface draining and irrigation is certainly one of the weights that will be used to build such a canal, and I am sure that these areas are also mentioned here, which could be done and irrigated. However, it is certainly the same that there are conflicting opinions regarding other branches of the economy that would be linked to the channel. That is why I believe that for or against opinions it is necessary to clarify through subsequent discussions in which the profession should have the last word and, as such, say its opinion on this channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14601	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bodakoš reminded me again about the Danube-Sava channel and the profession, I'll just repeat what we've been up to, when we've been discussing River Traffic Strategy and again take the opportunity to warn that exactly the forest profession insists on quality monitoring of groundwater, and then the decision to build a channel. We were talking about Spačva forest, a complex of 40,000 hectares and its total value, and I'm also saying this from the general problem of drying up forests in the lowland area precisely because of the unquality monitoring of groundwater levels and non-quality procedures on the canal network where there was then a reduction of groundwater and forest drying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14603	Thank you. Does the government's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14604	Proposal for a Water Management Strategy, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for a Water Management Strategy. Please, let's get involved and vote. Please be patient for a few seconds to normalize the system. Can we? I am voting on the proposal for a Water Management Strategy. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? This strategy was adopted with 86 votes for, 2 abstentions and 36 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14605	We are going to item 24 - Proposal for a decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has submitted this Proposal for a Decision on the basis of Article 84. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee proposes that the proposal for a decision be discussed after the procedure laid down for the Final Proposal of the Law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, a respected representative and board president, Vladimir Seks said there was no need for further explanation. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14606	Proposal for a decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system. The debate is closed. In order to make this decision, a half majority of all MPs are required, i.e. 77. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. The decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament resulted in a majority vote, 117 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14607	Let's get to point 25. - Advocate's office for persons with disabilities Proposer: Advocate for persons with disabilities. The Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities has delivered the Rules of Procedure to the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 19(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. Proposer representative, esteemed Anka Slonšak, lawyer for people with disabilities in a telephone conversation said she stayed with her proposal and did not need to come. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14608	Advocate's Rules of Procedure for Persons with Disabilities, Proposed Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to confirm the Advocate General's Rules of Procedure for Persons with Disabilities. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 107 votes for, 9 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14609	- Final draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 138. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Berislav Roncevic, Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 138. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Berislav Roncevic, Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Although this item of the agenda is included in the agenda as a pooled first and second reading, i.e. an emergency procedure, since the debate on the final proposal for this law is an articulated need for 2 readings, the Government has accepted the proposal, so I suggest that a regular procedure be carried out on this law. In short, the matter of the law on the area of entry, stay and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Act on Foreigners applicable from 1 January 2008. Although the provisions of this law are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, it is proposed to pass a law amending and supplementing this law because certain difficulties have arisen in the practical application of this law since 1 January 2008. It is important to note that it is not a matter of harmonisation with the EU aquis because it is already... define certain legal provisions, but in the field of EU aquis, i.e. a directive of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed changes and additions are seen as supporting and strengthening the Croatian economy. In short, the most important changes are proposed, a provision relating to the entry and exit of minors from the Republic of Croatia, which is directly in support of the development of Croatian tourism, extended categories of foreigners who can apply for the approval of the first temporary stay in the police administration, i.e. the police station on members of the family of Croatian citizens, extended categories of foreigners that can be obtained for temporary stay in order to join the family, were allowed for foreigners who have established working relations with foreign associations, the issue of work permits outside the annual quota, the provision of work without work was amended, the possibility of working without working without work and business permits on foreign correspondents accredited in the Republic of Croatia, representatives and staff of religious communities, professors, lecturers at Croatian universities and universitys at the invitation of Croatian higher universities. I suggest we carefully consider this law and guide it, adopt it in its first reading and refer it to further procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14612	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14613	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Pages. The debate is closed. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities have proposed and the Government has accepted the first reading on this legislative proposal. Accordingly, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreigners Act and secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions that it will be discussed. The draft law of the session of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposed conclusion was accepted by a majority of 128 votes in favour and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14614	And finally - Final proposal of the Law on Trade, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 21 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This is the second reading of the law and in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14615	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In the second reading, the Government sends the Final Proposal of the Trade Act and let me also appreciate your time, briefly recapitulate the changes, i.e. the first reading, and I draw attention to Article 58 and 59 of this final draft of the law relating to working hours, in a way that, for the second reading, working hours from Monday to Saturday, lasts at the earliest of 6 hours in the morning, and shops end up working no later than 21 hours. As for Sunday, or holiday day, it is basically a rough Sunday as well as a rough holidays, of course, if this law provides otherwise. Thus, from 1 June to 1 October, respecting increased inflows and consumption and consumers and their interests as well as during the month of December, shops can work on Sundays. In case of work on Sundays, the stores are then the earliest to begin their work at 7 a.m. and end up with their work by 14 o'clock at the latest. As for the holiday, such as Easter, Christmas Eve, and December 31st, or the old year, if that day falls right on the day of work, the shops end that day until 3:00 p.m. As regards the article 59 in the earlier version, we have limited the situation of the squares to a small part of the closed part of the gas station, but suggestions and consultations with the legal profession suggested that we do not present these 80 m2 in the second reading since this is a potential restriction. A brief summary of the activity of trade, given the number of jobs and the number of shops, is important to mention that trade, i.e. the activity of trade in the total share of the gross social product, is 10.8% and shows a trend in the steady growth of the number of employment in this activity. According to the latest data for the first quarter of this year, the number of shop employees is 256 thousand 373 employees of which 209 thousand 560 in companies, and 46 thousand 813 in crafts. The share of employees in trade compared to the total number of employees in Croatia is 17%. This data shows that trade as an activity is both in the function of consumers and in the function of the 256 thousand employees in the activity of trade, of course with the aim of creating better conditions of business as well as to combat unfair match and grey economy. In addition to the amendments and additions that we have prepared for the second reading, I would also recapitulate the other values of this law and draw attention to the fact that we provide for the introduction of newspapers such as the definition of economic concepts from the activity of trade, the regulation of the conditions for the conduct of trade, under which conditions, the regulation of the type of sales facilities, also the type of sales, the regulation of the procedure and the conditions for issuing a solution to meet the minimum technical conditions, the adoption of the rules governing the conditions for the execution of direct sales. Also in the HItroRez project it is suggested to abolish the obligation to keep the list of shops on, the list of goods in the store for a little while, which means that we are leaving the form for keeping the list of shops. It is now free and the data we need regarding the implementation of this law by an economic operator will lead to the most appropriate way, provided that the data we are looking for shows within the specified time limit. This novel was definitely welcomed by the economy. Also, the adoption of the typeology of the store that we regulate by this law through regulations, and in intensive cooperation with interested chambers such as the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce as the basis for the development of a future strategy for trade in Croatia. It is no less important to mention that, on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, we are obliged to take over the European Union's common trade policy, which, by this law, we do as far as we can, first of all, refer to the provisions governing the conditions for carrying out foreign trade, provisions relating to trade protection mechanisms such as measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports, anti-dumping and compensatory measures. It's final. We estimate that this law will ensure better operating conditions for all businessmen engaged in trade activities and minimised abuse at all levels that occur in this activity such as unfair competition and grey economy. However, we believe that this law will also cause positive effects for both employees and consumers through better working conditions, a higher level of service to consumers and also a lower price for the final product. I thank you for your attention, while taking the opportunity to thank all the committees who held the debate on this final bill, for the constructive and positive approach we had during the debate on this law by interested committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14616	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I can see no. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HSS club, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14617	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The HSS was guided by the principle of protection of workers' rights, but also by the fact that we are a country belonging to Christian tradition and culture when we proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Trade, which was introduced among other things and regulation of work on Sundays, and that law was adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The same law, unfortunately, was soon abolished by the Constitutional Court because of complaints from trade chains, as well as their like-minded. The reason was to disrupt the inequality of entrepreneurs within the trade sector. We hope that this legislative proposal that we are discussing today will not find the same fate, given that there is agreement and all social partners that we need the Law on Trade and that this area should be regulated as soon as possible, and in that part I think that a kind of compromise has been reached. We at HSS welcome every shift and every editing of this problem, which is complex and dynamic, and is aimed at protecting workers and workers. The adoption of the Law on Trade is our obligation because we now operate on a rule that is based on which municipalities and cities prescribe trade hours, and thus often makes it possible to give an incorrect business advantage to those employers who break the law, which is not only disproved by workers, it is also disproved by the state because these employers do not pay all those obligations that they owe to the state for overtime for retirement and health insurance. According to a report by the Trade Union, as many as 75 thousand store employees worked for their employer for free of charge during 2006 for as many as 89 days a year. Shop workers have done as much as 53.5 million hours that their employers have not paid them. If employers paid each of those overtime hours, workers would have to pay $1.18 billion. About 40,000 store employees work every Sunday, and in most cases they don't get a single kuna. To pay for this work would require an additional 180 million kuna. The merchants worked on holidays to collect 1.5 million unpaid hours for which they needed to earn another 52.5 million kuna. He didn't pay employees at the store or work at the time of the inventory. Well, if each of them had worked an hour a year, it would have been 75 thousand overtime hours, i.e. $1.87 million. So in a year, not paying overtime work on Sundays and holidays, employers went to about 1.4 billion kuna, which is around 194m euros, which means that each worker gave its employer 19 thousand kuna annually. It is therefore necessary, of course, to introduce order in the field of trade and through more intensive inspection, but also through amendments to the Law on Trade. The new Trade Act regulates and works on Sundays should enter into force on 1 January of next year, and under this law Sunday will practically be an unworkable day that is regulated by Articles 58 and 59 of this Law. But of course there are exceptions. The shops will be able to operate on Sundays during the tourist season, i.e. from 1 June to 1 October, and during December between 7 and 14 hours. We believe that there are too many exceptions in the law because this obligation of a working week will also not apply to bakerys, kiosks, gas stations, shops at border crossings, resorts, highways, stations and airports and ports of nautical tourism. During the whole year they can also work booths and benches outside the market for the sale of flowers and flowers and souvenir shops. Why did we urge that the issue of Sunday's work be resolved and that a more comprehensive approach be made to the issue of general trade work? Because of the 260,000 employees in the store, three-quarters of them are women. So this is about 200 thousand mothers who need to be protected from overwork and exploitation, they need to be provided with existence, but also allowed to be with their family. Many employers when, on condition of speaking, they spend people, throw them on the street, and then the state pays for them. It's a public secret that many trade chains take workers for a certain time, take incentives for employment, and then fire them. We think it is necessary to find a solution that will contribute to the organisation of society, but also to its stabilisation, and therefore this issue is one of the most important issues for us in the HSS. The share of employees in trade accounts for 17.3% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. There are 260 thousand employees working at over 50,000 shops, and it is estimated that Sundays work about 40,000 store workers, and perhaps more if family members who work on Sundays are not employed there. Many work seven days a week, they don't have one day off, and so do holidays and days off. In some shops, workers have not had a single day off in six months, although this is guaranteed by the Labour Act. Over-time shop hours are so much so that another 10,000 people could be hired, so notices about the layoffs coming from the mouth of certain ring leaders are being evaluated in the HSS club by blackmailers and immorals. Most workers are not paid at all on Sundays, holidays and days of work, and I have listed statistics that contribute to this, and if we take very low wages in the store to work in some trade chains in three shifts, or 24 hours a day, all 7 days a week, and so that workers do not know in advance what shifts they will work on, but they are obliged to wait in preparation to avoid losing their jobs, then we can say that the situation in trade, especially when it comes to working on Sundays and holidays is really worrying. Many families don't have one in a week so they can be together and in cases that are rare, when workers in exchange for work on Sundays get a second day off the week, it can't be an adequate replacement, because their family members don't have a day off. Even many employers do not view Sundays and holidays as necessary and profitable, but many are forced to compete with impious competition in which, besides workers, small entrepreneurs suffer, and there are 22,000 in the store. The problem of working hours has been rounding up most of the European countries lately. In Austria it is forbidden to work on Sundays and holidays, with exception during the tourist season and of course we can say that this Austrian model is the closest to us. In Germany, as a rule, the store does not work on Sundays with a number of exceptions. It's a similar situation in Denmark where in principle shops are closed, while small shops work unlimitedly. In Greece, as a rule, major shops are closed on Sundays, while in smaller places and tourist areas there are no restrictions on work. It is evident from the above that other countries and tourist destinations tend to be unworkable Sundays and holidays, especially since on-call shops, as well as shops in tourist resorts, are quite enough for basic needs. We believe in HSS that tourism consumption should be directed towards catering facilities and rural economies, not to weekend shops, especially on Sundays. We can also say what we were particularly interested in are measures to protect domestic production, that the law is restrictive when it comes to the import of those agricultural products that are sufficiently available in Croatia and we believe that Article 29 shows a clear definition of the protection of domestic production. However, Article 30 provides for the implementation of measures to protect domestic production, which includes a test procedure which we consider to be complicated and difficult to implement. During last year, more than $2 billion was imported into Croatia. Many products served by our consumers, including tourists, have been kicked out of trade in European countries. We need laws to protect our citizens, not bring them into an unequal position. Argentine beef says it's from Argentina, and a New Zealand sheep can't be sold as a Pag lamb. The powdered milk imported from Bosnia and mixed with small Croatian water is not from a cow that has fallen on our pastures and consumers have the right to know and choose whether or not to take such a product. But if we know that we have extra products on the market we should know that the same product is only much worse quality not introduced into Croatia, and we need good laws to help us, one of them must certainly be the Law on Trade. Croatia achieved 5.4 billion kuna on food exports in 2007, while at the same time there were 9.5 billion kuna on food imports. National agricultural industry's strength is being witnessed by the State Statistics Institute. Last year, 115 million kunas were reported to be lower food exports than in 2006, while imports amounted to more than $553 million and amounted to $2.15 billion. The bright point in food exports in recent years was only in 2006 when exports grew 134.7% in 2005 while imports were 13.8% higher. Strong growth in 2006 prompted coffee and chocolates, cereals, sugar and fish, and there products produced 3.62 billion export kunas. With the exception of cereals whose exports were higher by 79.4% in 2007 and the most drastic coffee and chocolates where exports fell from 945 to 426 million kuna. But if we remember what happened last year, we learn from that that doesn't happen to us by accident this year, and it's about that grain exported at one price and imported at a higher price, that the difference between the export price and the country's import prices has been covered by the importers, they're getting rich at that, the millers have raised the price of flour, bakers' prices for bread, and all of this has been paid by our citizens. From this experience, we need to learn that such a thing does not happen this year, so we need urgent action, and we at HSS are committed to making domestic production protection measures more stringent, because there are all legal elements for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14618	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14619	Thank you very much. I'm going to correct an incorrect quote from my colleague, Petyr. She argued that employers do not pay overtime, use workers, and thus damage workers for unpaid money, as well as the state for outstanding contributions and all that employers should pay. And she claimed that by passing this law, we would end it. That's an incorrect quote. By passing a new law, we will not put an end to it, but we will end the implementation of existing laws. And that is why Miss Petyr should support the labour inspection and ultimately support those who are dealing with this problem in the country, to end up with such behaviour by irresponsible employers at the end of the day. By passing new laws, we will not put an end to it, but rather by implementing quality existing laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14620	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14621	Col. Maras injured Rule 209 and 210 of the Rules of Procedure, and I will quote what I said, and he did not listen very carefully to this need to bring order into the field of trade and through more intensive inspection, but also through changes to the Law on Trade. So, for the second time, I know you're tired, but listen carefully to what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14622	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague, Petyr, who said that if I couldn't do a good job in my family because they work in a store like this, I think it's one of them, and I'd say it's an incorrect grade, or if I were to respect the working hours, respecting that it doesn't work here and there on some Sundays, then it wouldn't be like this. I think it's really about one flat and incorrect grade.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14624	Thank you. And let's keep arguing about clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14625	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Since this is the second reading of the law I'm going to try to make the most of my discussion, because there's no point in repeating ourselves periodically and actually telling the same stories, because I think we apologized a lot when we first read this law. However, I will mention what is important even though I will not tell you what you have not heard in these discussions so far regarding this law. We know that the area of trade has been since '96. the year has been uniquely arranged in Croatia and since then the law has experienced a dozen changes. Normally, these changes are the reason why Croatia has become increasingly involved in global integration processes, and the internationalisation of Croatian trade especially through the entry of foreign capital has led to more modern forms of trade, as well as its liberalisation, but also an increasing danger of existential rights of employees. And that's important because of this very economic activity that you yourself have said here, there's a steady growth and development in the activity of trade, and there's a cca 260 thousand traders in that activity, and its share in the gross social product is about 11%. It is therefore necessary to stress with special attention that employees in trade should be taken into account which should have far more positive existential effects, higher wages, better working conditions, and unfortunately they are mostly victims of exploitation by individual employers. It is very important to stress that social partners as well as other associations were involved in the draft law, and it is the actual result of years of work and the desire of most authors' proposals, and in particular we must stress that they were active trade unions. The proposed law, in relation to the existing unequivocally introduces a more high-quality newspaper, which the State Secretary spoke of, and I don't think I need to repeat, except that I might point out in particular that this law prescribed a more restrictive inspection of supervision both for unfair competition and for a grey economy in which employees are most frequently exploited. The news that has recently been the media's most exposed has been a work-time arrangement under the Trade Act. The important Law on Trade and the Rules on Working Time has not regulated the current law uniquely for the entire territory of Croatia. It is therefore very important to regulate the new law on weekdays, Sundays, holidays unique to the entire territory of Croatia. The proposed trade arrangements otherwise set out in the column of the European Union countries such as Italy, Austria, Germany, Greece, Finland, etc. In which the trade time is similar. The proposed Law on Trade is more quality than existing and for the purpose of the prescribed protection of workers from being fired, which can be addressed to the competent authorities with greater powers because of the breach of labour law. It is also prescribed to provide special protection for whistle-whispering workers who, in good faith, submit a report on corruption on the basis of reasonable doubt, stating the circumstances and evidence that warrants suspicion. In the case of a slow burden of proof, as is the case with the Labour Act, it goes in order to the cost of the employer. Finally, the proposed Law on Trade aims to correct the current uncertainty and neutralise the consequences of the legislative non-compliance of certain areas and discrepancies with other laws. By entering the European Union, Croatia’s market becomes an integral part of the European Community’s internal market, which applies in this part to the common trade policy of the European Union. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the proposed Law on Trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14626	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14627	Your Honor, Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The only compromise on this unfortunate trade law could be that the law goes into third reading. Okay, we see this is not only the law on the work of trade on Sundays, this law regulates and exports and imports of goods, small-border exports, contingents, protection of domestic goods from excessive imports, anti-dumping measures, but Sunday's work provision will naturally cause the biggest controversy in this assembly. Come on, this is how I'm gonna start. First, as of 1.7 this year, the provision to customs duties and VAT, as we speak, must be paid within eight days of the imports being made. It used to be in 30 days. It's a disaster for small importers. I'm saying it's a crime against the same, and it's just saying that it's consciously preferable to big chains like this ban on Sundays. As for imports and exports to the deficit, Mrs. Petir said, I will not mention it now with imports I would say only one thing that we must in some way loosen and import from Bosnia and Serbia where we are making the biggest surpluses and where we clearly invest most when we look at the investment of our capital because if we do not allow them to export to Croatia, we will begin to lose their markets. It means so much for an introduction. As far as Sunday's work is concerned, this law was written by people who do not know Croatia. They must love her, but as much as they love her, I think they're courting Captola. HDZ has recently been given fingers for this Discrimination Act. To quickly repair the damage seems to be now proposing another harmful law that I think has nothing to do with real life. Croatian gentlemen are not only Lika, it's not only Zagorje, it's not just Slavonia, it's not just Baranja and there's really a store that doesn't have to work on Sundays. But Croatia is one Istria, it's one coast, it's our islands, it's Dalmatia, it's Dubrovnik. And if these ends don't take advantage of the season, then there's really a question as to when they're mostly gonna have these little merchants working. It's just like if the government or I don't know now the Church is asking for a ban on harvesting in Slavonia on Sundays. Thank God that the bishops of that ban on Sundays when grain harvest is not sought, thank God that the bishops do not seek a ban on Sundays, say in hospitality, even though I claim that there is no big difference between catering and trade, with us there being far more hypocritical because we will go there on Sundays for some dinner or lunch or something like that. And finally, thank God that the Holy Father is not suggested to have Holy Mass moved from Sunday to another day. But what our bishops could write to the Holy Father to ban them from doing trade in the Vatican, and there's 90% of those shops there mean in the Vatican that work neatly every Sunday and Sundays make the biggest sales owned by no less than the Holy Church. I think so. ... He'll go to hell. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And did you see what Fr. Linic wrote? He says, "The Devil no longer hides his intentions today but also shows himself to the government in politics and public life by imposing some of his standards, materialism, promiscuity and pornography." Fr. Zvezdan Linic. But that devil is so strong that he's shown himself in the Church and the Pope's been apologizing for two years on all continents not to say why, etc. I think the same thing in Medjugorje where all shops work on Sundays as much as I've had a chance to notice. I have absolutely nothing against the Church, though, but I think this law is harmful. And we and finally they, I mean here on those 400 million kunas they get by the Concordate, we get money from all those who have to pay that money into the budget. That's not only true for us, for them. That goes for defenders, health care, teachers, pensioners. And what am I saying? From next season he will not, for example, be able to make stands in tourist resorts on Sundays after two hours. We all know it's funny, but so let the clothing store, what I know in one Poreč, Pula, Opatija, Zadar, Dubrovnik can do up to 2 hours which is funny, but when everyone's normal on the beach, they're either swimming or sleeping, but then from 14 to 21 or 22 they can't work. I say it is necessary among other things for the image of these cities. Well, tourists aren't going to buy some shirt or shoes from 9 to 14 but they're going to shop there from 6 to 9 or 10 o'clock in the evening. I don't think they should be bishops against that, and if they weren't bishops who live, they'd have their own domicile in some coastal places. All right, we can make a deal in the morning, we'll all go to Misa, and then we'll do something in the afternoon. But let's put the joke aside now. But I don't think anyone, state or union or bishops should joke with those who pay taxes. But on the other hand, when it takes this little craftsman, a craftsman, a trader to pay VAT, customs, and that within eight days without selling it, and I assure you it's not a joke. It's also when every first payday is not a joke, and it's certainly not a joke, and I don't know, the other utility fees, directorships, and that's not a joke either. However, those who, on the other hand, propose such standards also claim not to joke. They do everything they do in their own right. Both they consciously and with such norms want to please the great. Those standards mean they're good for those big trade chains. They say they're working against them. That's not true. They're actually hurting the little trade chains. Why is that? The share of small merchants in trade chains in 2000 was about 70% on the market, only 30% large. It's the other way around today. Today, big ones have 70% share in that market cookie, and only a small one is 30%. And in 5 years, the large one and the basis of this law will cover 85% of the market and maybe only 15% of the small one. It is true, as is true, that workers were able to buy out social housing in 1990 to 1991. That socialist directors of HDZ elected authorities could privatise factories and hotels. That defenders, for example today, seven days ago we passed the Law in areas of special state care can get for nothing home, that the church is returning property which is absolutely fine. That farmers for small money can come, I don't know, to the ground and only those small craftsmen, those merchants who have these social spaces clearly can't buy those spaces, even at a fair price. I mean, here's what I'm saying is it's not a joke, but it's also not in any way fair to these people. And it's not fair to say that this law sets out to the church so that on Sundays it can collect a lease on selling candles and flowers even though I absolutely don't mind that these flowers and candles are sold on Sundays because it's so normal and so common that if we didn't have it we'd hit some traditional religious and I don't know what customs in our people. I just want to say that we should let people work, organize ourselves especially in that season of work on Sundays. Well, it's as clear as what we've heard before. Well, the worker has to be paid and let it be controlled. Let it be supervised and let those who regularly do not pay overtime and so on be punished. But I also want to convince you that sometimes that one small merchant may be harder than that worker who works at his place because that trader outside has to guarantee all of his assets. The worker guarantees, I don't know, at 2 or 3 months he wouldn't get paid. Let's just say one situation that that ship that was burning around Rovinj this winter was carrying oil and it went down, for example. To burn what I know, to pour that oil on the shore. So every other little caterer, merchant, builder in Istria would simply fail. And yet you would have to set aside for both the worker and our salaries and the pensions of a million and 100 thousand pensioners and the receiving of a bishop and the receiving of a priest and a believer and what I know about a general and for defenders and for policemen and for a judge and for a doctor and not to count further. So what I want to say to the season of us living next to that Adriatic is the same thing as the Slavs harvest and then I really ask you gentlemen here in the Parliament to let us reap what we reap because in winter or in autumn or early spring there will be nothing to reap. Not in any Pula, not in any Poreč, not in any Opatija, not in any Zadar, not on Murter, not in Baška, Dubrovnik or elsewhere. And finally only two more sentences. Once again, I'm going to say clear people should be paid. That's understood. But I said don't envy those little merchants. Finally, if the Vatican as a sovereign state allows traders to sell various, I don't know what, things on Sundays, and we who had opportunities not once to be that we know that. If in one Danish small trade they can work unlimitedly, if in the season they do trade in all Mediterranean countries of one Spain, what do I know, Portugal if they are even in the Mediterranean via France, Italy, down to Greece and so on, about Turkey and Israel not to talk about other reasons. Well, then I guess we should let the trades in the season work both on this eastern side of the Adriatic or on the Croatian part of the Adriatic. Why defend them from this work? It's just in the season, it just doesn't go to my head. Only two, three sentences left to go. These fines laid down in this law by 30, 50, 100, 250 thousand kuna are dragonous. I invite you to tie them to the daily traffic. Not with this absolute amount. That way and with these fines being helped? It helps largely to the harm of small because 30 thousand kunas for someone who has a small shop where one or two workers and what in Plodines can spend on now 7 thousand kunas for their yacht can't be the same money, and punishments are both simply subordinated to these absolute amounts. I assure you that the situation between these small merchants is so that today 2/3 of them are fighting for naked survival, the big ones are getting stronger, the little ones are getting weaker. I'm not going to say how much of the trade is in that society, etc., but I'll say the following. The church may have rightly warned of the possibility of this Law on Discrimination, for example. through the amendment of the Law on the adoption of children must not adopt same sex couples and for me it is absolutely logical, natural, etc., I understand the care of the worker, but if we choke a small entrepreneur, a small trader, a small farmer, someone in this free activity and society will be poorer. And so, I really ask you in the government, go with that law in the third reading, let people work when they're busy, don't cut that season, that outside of the board, so it's not the point that on Sundays, they only sell kebabs and ice creams, but that in that period from the 6th to the end of the 9th month, there's something else that this country kills 22% of VAT plus customs, plus contributions and taxes on workers' salaries and that I'm not counting any further. And don't forget the fact from the 6th month to the end of the 9th month we have, that I don't count them now because I don't have time, 4 or 9 holidays, we bring some holidays together, we have 16 or 17 weeks, and of the 4 months de facto season at the store we bring down to 3 months. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14628	Bring the end. Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Luke Denon on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14629	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in this late hour I'll try a few sentences, I hope I won't really bother and be too long to say why the SDP won't, of course, give support to one of these laws. Like what? if we say and if the legislator argues that the objective to achieve this Law on Trade is to avoid the indeterminate nature of certain areas, inconsistencies of the Republic of Croatia's systems and other laws, I stress other laws and the need for its frequent amendments and additions, as is the case so far, the urgency is that this means that the new law regulates trade activity in a unique way. I claim that if that's the goal, then by reading this law, none of these sub-targets I've read are fulfilled, and that means that the law has missed its purpose and that in any case it can't get a passing grade. It is obvious that this law is a political compromise between the majority party and the partners, but this is when political compromise is being done that something is being resolved by some other laws and something which, of course, we all welcome to introduce order in payment and inspection to do their job where they should do their job, and then when it is trying to get into one of these laws, then we get one law that is not quite legible, but in any case it only comes down to working hours and not just talking about working time, I will try to tell about some of the details that have made me uncomfortable, and that is, above all, when the secretary of state has said what the conditions for doing trade are, and in the first debate we wanted to do so, and in order to improve this law, then it is, among other things, that these are the minimum technical conditions that have to meet the sales facilities, general sanitary etc. That I don't read it now and I don't write it. However, it further states in that Article 12 that, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health, the Minister responsible for Agriculture, the Minister responsible for Construction, will lay down the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. You can imagine when 4 ministers have to find themselves to write a rule, what that Article 12 will look like, because the minister has to prescribe specific conditions for doing business directly... How many of these rules should we have? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So really this law is, I'd say inoperable because just, here it's written to satisfy the partners, but in any case in that attempt to do it goes to some other extremes that aren't operational. It was normal for those ministers to meet, to say what technical conditions were minimum, to make it clear what the traders were waiting for, when they had to do, what they had to do to open the store, not wait for the four ministers to meet and find themselves and write the rules. Thankfully, it's also worth talking about the classification of shops, but it's one strange way and then it all falls into the water together because it's just a pilot project, so we don't know what it all looks like together, and then it's said that the minister will re-absorbed the power of the economy to adopt a regulation on the classification of shops and other forms of retail trade, we still don't know what it's supposed to look like because we just spent that one pilot project that, that can be okay, but I'm reading all of this the way I read, it doesn't seem to be exactly how we wanted it to be. So, I am sorry that in the initial debate in the first reading there was a series of proposals both on the one hand and on the other to try out what is most about in this law, and it is primarily working time to edit in one different way respecting Croatia's specialities, but it is obvious that these minimum shifts were made only in that hour on Sunday more and nothing more. I have to admit that it bothers me that something that's in the old law, so I suggest we don't go to third reading because in second reading, the law is a little bit worse, and in third, it would be even worse. In that first law, if you remember well, local self-government was self-determining the duration of the tourist season and working time. So I think that provision should be left in the Law on Trade, so then local self-government in which you really need to have a little more faith and trust because that local self-government is not run by people who are inserious, the water really is people who, here I look at some of the local self-government that I claim to be serious and that with a lot of responsibility both for the benefit of their citizens and for the benefit of their city or their municipalities or their counties will rightly determine when there is a tourist season for them, in what time and in which working time they can do trade. I have to admit that this interpretation that it's because, here's why I don't want to involve faith in it, but also for reasons like that, this is the way of time distribution that's done, and I don't think it's fair and it's not polite. Because look if we don't work on Sundays until April 1st, then from April 1st, it's kind of not fair, because then either let's admit that we don't work on Sundays or let's not get rid of these 05's 05's not so that this half-law philosophy is not good and it's not decent. In my court, local self-government should have determined when it was the tourist season in their place, because it is obvious that in the Adriatic, but also in our continental part of this type of tourist season, it should have been left to local self-government and certainly should have been if nothing else was determined when it was the tourist season, because what little I learned about tourism from all the former ministers and from the directors of the tourism community, they claim that the season in Croatia, something called tourism, the tourist season cannot talk about the season, but we are talking about year-round tourism. Because tourism is an economic branch, our branch that we have defined and it lasts for us all year as it lasts in Dubrovnik and some other coastal destinations all year round, in some smaller ones, so it was really necessary to make it local self-government itself determines when it is polite to work on Sundays as well. Because if we are trying and saying that tourism is a business branch that we can live on relatively well then we have defined ourselves here with the construction and modernisation of hotel capacities and private capacities that take on all 4 or 5 stars, our goal is to make tourism 5 star tourism, but then in those 5 stars of Adriatic tourism we need to work, not work. Here is also from these controversys that we have this working time in this way presented will bring and will do damage in a tourist season that we look forward to, which we expect to gain more in this year, we cannot support in SDP a controversial trade law that does not solve and bring harm to tourism and does not solve trade in the way it should have been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14630	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14631	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try very briefly to say something about the law itself. First of all, I will say that I am saddened that the proposals of the Tourism and Tourism Ministry Committee have not been accepted in part of the special working time shop. The fact is that the Committee on Tourism and the Ministry of Tourism also proposed that the timing of the store be left to the units of local self-government, which was thus regulated by the current law, i.e. the law that is now in force. The Ministry of Tourism also suggested that working hours, especially during the tourist season, for tourist resorts, would allow shops, i.e. shops, to work up to 23 hours. Here is no other solution embedded in the final draft of the law, and I would certainly say that this significantly reduces the quality of the tourist product. I think we are all interested in the Republic of Croatia being the leading tourist destination of the Mediterranean and certainly seem a huge effort. With this proposal, these decisions to tell our guests at 9:00 p.m. we should go to sleep, I think we're doing damage. And I'd say this law is anti-tourism and anti-enterprise, and as such we certainly won't accept it. It can still be improved through amendments, but this is, the promoter explains that there is a need to offer unique solutions for the entire Republic of Croatia. I say that the Republic of Croatia is rich in differences from Slavonia, Zagorje or central Croatia to Dalmatia and should respect these differences right now. The diversity is that it is possible especially in the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia where tourism is the most intense, that shops work up to 23 hours because we know that one tourist product is beside the sun and the sea and the hospitality and part of the business, selling souvenirs of typical Croatian products, means what adorns every single region, or us as a tourist destination. Here is the fact that we will also give part of us, part of the Committee on Tourism and others, amendments to the proposal, i.e. Article 58, which regulates the working time of the store, I would ask the promoter to consider this possibility to extend the working time to 23 hours, I speak for tourist resorts, i.e. municipalities and cities in the tourist parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14632	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14633	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate. Here's to saying at first that I'm against passing a law like this, because I think it's a bad compromise that the proposings, the social partners have come to, and we've been told by the law de facto to discuss it the last day of the session, a few hours before midnight. As early as this morning, we were able to witness various complaints from individual representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the proposals to try to fix the law a little more with the amendments. What in this law and what is defined in this law I would say with all these things that we have so far heard the conditions for carrying out trade, safeguards in imports and exports, restrictions on the conduct of trade and other things, I believe that this law deals with another phenomenon in Croatian society, which is to reduce the foreign trade deficit. I believe that by keeping this law, we will lead to this deficit being reduced, and the reason is very simple. Because most often goods are sold imported in trade, and if we want to take a statistical look on Sundays, the average Sundays in Croatia make about 12% of trade traffic. So four weeks almost half a month's traffic in a store that takes place during the week. Weekly traffic on average is also 50% higher in hypermarkets than the average hour of the week and traffic on Sundays in smaller shops is about 20% higher. All this together, of course, when it's allocated to other days, it won't result in 50% of the turnover being lower in trade, but according to some estimates, that traffic will be 20% lower. Today, as I said today in the last day of quality, i.e. we received this proposal in Parliament, just before midnight we will discuss it, we will vote tomorrow, and we will apply it 8 days after adoption, except in Articles 58 and 60 that we apply from the beginning of next year, and these articles are, in my opinion, the most controversial in this law. They talk about working time and exceptions in a trade where trade can be done and in what forms trade can be done on Sundays. There are certain things that are incomprehensible to me that I can even be in one of these serious laws. It is said from 1 June to 1 October and during December that they can work on Sundays. It calls for the tourist season even though we know that the classic tourist season no longer exists in this sense. The tourist season, colleagues and colleagues, lasts throughout the year and there is no Shuice colleague, and I will find it interesting to see how she will explain in Dubrovnik that, say, when a cruiser lands in March, in April, when they agree on Sundays of three, four cruisers, how they will explain to sellers that they cannot sell goods to tourists and that they will explain to tourists that there is no offer on Sundays in the city. On the other hand, it is determined that gas stations and shops on a small part of the closed part of the gas stations can operate without restrictions. Also in some campers and others, somewhere else. I think it would be very good to remember what gas stations look like today, and what they'll look like in a year and a half. Today you will certainly not find bread, milk and other supplies in gas stations, but I am not sure that this offer will not expand within a year and that our people will not use the opportunity to sell those things that will be banned in other shops, or it will not be possible to buy them on Sundays. In the end, 65% of people in Croatia have a habit of buying on Sundays. Will these people stop shopping on Sundays, will our citizens start shopping more Saturdays or other days of the week? I'm not so sure. I think that part of the people will also be directed across the border, in some ways I think that the most useful part of this law might be neighbouring countries where trade can take place on Sundays. In the end, I am not inclined to accept the laws that have been passed as a result of a particular compromise. That this law is a compromise is seen by the fact that these provisions do not apply when and all the others in the law, but will wait half a year for their application. And in the end, I believe that such a law will certainly not lead to what we just heard about the introduction of order in terms of paying overtime, the exploitation of workers, but I believe that this law will lead to the exact opposite of the fact that the number of overtime hours may be increased, that the number of employees of these 260 thousand in trade will decrease and ultimately there will be no positive effects in employment, by apologizing for working on black after the adoption of this law. Here, after all, I also agree that it might be better if the law didn't go into third reading because we see that between the two readings three months had passed, we had a lot of debates, a lot of proposals, a little bit of it was accepted, the law was no better for me than it was in the first reading, and as a bad compromise I think it's even a little worse and as a bad compromise it certainly didn't deserve the support of us here Parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14634	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14635	Thank you, Mr. President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do for most of my debate is look back at this part that's the most interesting part for us all, so work time on Sundays and holidays. I wonder what this is really about. If it's about the care of workers' rights, the right to rest on Sundays, I wonder what's with the right to a day's rest, because we know that the store doesn't respect it very much. So, shopkeepers work 10 to 12 hours a day for some miserable money. When a manager works 10 hours a day, he knows very well why he went to work early in the morning and comes back at night, and that store worker definitely doesn't know that, because she was paid to work eight hours. I also wonder if there's any concern for labour rights what about those workers who work on gas stations or for everyday life unusually important candle shops and souvenirs. It's a funny argument that this law excludes those who sell goods that are necessary in everyday life. I can say, and I believe, like most Croatian citizens, that we will all be simply overjoyed to be able to jump on Sundays, buy... bread and souvenir, because without it definitely our... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The needs will not be met. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The restrictions that the Government will have the right to place in terms of some kind of disaster, war and so on are quite sufficient and there is no need for any further restrictions, but there is a need for strong inspection supervision and adequate pay for work on Sundays. I'll tell you that health care workers get kidnapped even when they get their schedule on duty, watch how many weeks they have because they know that this week will be paid more, because they know that after that they'll get a day off that they can rest, be with their family, use for whatever they want. So this is obviously about double standards, so it's going to be for some restrictions, and for those that sell, for example. Candles and flowers won't be worth it. So no one can convince me that this is about the equality mentioned in this bill, because it's definitely from equality here and not from the letters. I also wonder who will be responsible for reducing the number of employees likely to follow after this implementation of this law. Another thing that colleagues have mentioned unfairly is that there are double time criteria. So, at the time of those tourist seasons at sea, we're worth one rule, so we're open to work on Sundays and over winter we're more Catholics than the Pope. I'm sorry that we don't have the data here, because I didn't expect today, or I couldn't be sure that today will be this debate about how it's all going to be on the agenda, so I don't have any information about tourism in Baranja, you'd be amazed how many nights there have been, so now since the beginning of the year so for one Slavonia and Baranja this law in the tourist season doesn't mean anything. I can also conclude in one word that these double criteria and hypocrisy are the reasons why this law is absolutely unsupportable. I would just briefly refer to the articles that speak about the protection of domestic products by limiting the introduction, anti-dumping and compensatory fees, I am livingly interested in what will be in the implementation of this part of the law and whether it will prevent one example of the significant imports of pigs from Europe, or from the world, and our peasants cannot place their pork on the market. Will this law really change? And here some have mentioned whistles here today, unfortunately this law gives them certain protection, but in implementation I'm almost certain there will be few or no one who will dare because this law says that it has the right to report corruption, report some irregularities simply because of a general state in this country when it comes to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14636	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14637	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's important to remind myself that this topic of work has come to the agenda at all on Sundays. It occurred to someone that the workers, so the mahogany workers who work at the stores their shop owners don't pay overtime and then some genius remembered, let's ban this work on Sundays and then we'll solve all the problems. I thought about it now, and I wrongly said it in the first sentence, and now it's too late for me to think of someone who might remember and say they don't pay overtime, so also in five, ten, or two years, they're going to find some genius who's going to say okay. Then we all work eight hours. Eight to four, because no one pays overtime. Such measures do not solve the problem. The ban on working on Sundays will not solve the problem of employers who do not pay salaries and do not respect the Labour Law. When I talked about the subject in the last term two or not, I don't know how many times I've asked the state inspectorate how much the store owner was punished for not paying the fines. They tell me they don't have the data, because they only have 100 inspectors and they've charged five fines all year. I'm a cartoon, I think there were 17 of them, and we're coming up with solutions from colleague Bozan is rightly hypocritical. It's like you have a fever and you're going to treat it by putting a cast on your hand. It's absolutely nothing to do with each other. Secondly, in my town where I was born, the tourist season lasts for 12 months, the City of Zagreb which carries a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia, not more than 12 months. And if it is an excuse that during the tourist trade season they can work on Sundays, then I ask that an exception be made for the City of Zagreb as a colleague is very justified to ask who are along the coast to extend the season, because that season really starts from Easter to next, that it is worth it to all. Third, we heard here in the debate that through this law the spirit of the Christian mentality of the majority here in Croatia extends. If that's why you let Sunday's shops work in December. December is the month when everyone is more or less referred to their families. We encourage people here to spend in December, is that, then, the Catholic Christian spirit some are calling upon in this law. The hypocrite is a couple of exellances. And fellow Maras I think he asked some and some others who then the solution is here for us who work like this until 9 and 35 p.m. A few months ago, I discovered the purchase of spectres over the Internet. I recommend it to everyone, but unfortunately, it's not small merchants who profit not from local stores, it's just big trade chains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14638	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. And it's also past the time at 21.36 a.m. for a ten-minute application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14639	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I only answered because I've been listening to this week's work story for five years, we've been spinning the movie back a little bit, and I don't blame you for anything at least when it comes to your secretary of state. It's an insecure problem, absolutely insecure. The unique model to sell by law is impossible, absolutely impossible. What's the season? A colleague was perfectly told by a cruiser who arrives every day, one, two, three in Dubrovnik in closed shops that he can't buy a tourist suit, shoes, tie in February. That's embarrassing. So, cultural tourist, cultural tourism doesn't go with open shops and bathers go with open shops. No matter what discrimination it is, what logic it is. I can't understand that. However, cultural tourists spend more, they are richer, we can expect more from them when it comes to selling our products. But we're making it impossible. So it's really not right. We even started to link the coverage of exports to work on Sundays. If that's possible in that way, gentlemen, then the formula is "close the store" and only one day a week let it be open and we've solved our imbalance clearly. But it's not like that. It's not like that at all. The only solution is to invite trade unions to unite, to make collective agreements with the government, to get rid of these barren and unnecessary debates. Until then, the transition model is the best model of my deep belief that we let the local self-government continue to decide which stores will be open and which ones, in which area, in which time of year, in which way. It's the only solution for colleagues and colleagues. Let's not centralize these kinds of decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14640	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for tonight we will conclude the debate, with tomorrow at 11 a.m. voting on all these crossed agenda points. And I note that we also have organic laws where most of the 77 are needed and we have at least three decisions two-thirds means 102 and possibly, we will see what the board of this agreement will say to the United States and Croatia eventually. So it would take four decisions to make a two-thirds majority. So, I'm asking the clubs and the MPs to be here tomorrow at 11 o'clock, so I hope we can welcome them in a good mood to go get some rest and go on a well-deserved holiday after we have a drink because we have to maintain a tradition of turning to the sea and the future of this summer. Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 11:00. Final proposal of the Trade Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 21. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like the representative of the motionary Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary to make their statement. We have a review of the amendment. First is the Committee on Economy on Article 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14642	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14643	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Second, representatives Marin Brkarić, Mario Habek, Luka Denon, Šime Lučin and Dragutin Bodakoš on Article 58(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14644	The government does not accept, Mr. President. We believe that the proposed period as proposed by the Government, which is from June 1st to October 01st, including December, is not necessary to extend in the proposed way because it is precisely the sequence of all analyses in that period of consumer inflow and consumption. We also believe that meeting the needs of consumers in other days of the week as well as available working hours, as proposed by the Government by 14.00 hours is quite enough to meet the needs of tourists, who, apart from the need to buy their stay in our country, can direct and complete other content.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14645	Thank you. Mr. Representative Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14646	Here's Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will try very briefly to say that I am truly sorry that the promoter did not realise after the second time the need for working hours in the store to be extended to 23.00 hours for reasons, we are talking normally about working time in tourist resorts, meaning in tourist municipalities and cities. With a suggestion like this, we'll tell our guests at 9:00 p.m., and we'll fight for every guest to go to sleep. I am sorry and the responsibility will be borne by those who vote for such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14647	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3. Amendment of the IDS Representative Club to Article 58?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14648	The government does not accept with the same explanation as the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14649	On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14650	I can't understand the hypocrisy of this argument of yours. In the season as Mr. Brkaric said, the store must work all the time. So in the Mediterranean, it would be just as normal for trade to work in Croatia as it does in Spain, France, Italy, what I know in Greece, etc. However, trade does not only work there, it also works in the interior of Italy, for example. in one Vatican, and all year round, and the best of these shops in the Vatican are doing just Sundays. He does trade in Medjugorje, and then it's not an argument from the church not to let others say what they don't hate. That law is, shut me down. That law is damaging, many small traders are dared to say in a more difficult position than even the workers who work with them. We have now changed when importing the VAT Act which we will have to pay within eight days on the payment of salaries, contributions, communals, directors etc. You don't have to waste a word at all. If the merchants don't work gentlemen in the season, we're cutting down the board. Our season lasts since 01. 06 to 30. We have 16 or 17 weeks in that period. We have five holidays of which some of them join together and de facto that season we cut by 30 days, from 160 to 120 days. And I'm really asking you not to do that, I know that HDZ is being redeemed by this law at church for some other mistakes, but don't. ... and our salaries and bishops and creditors and parishioners and generals and what I know of whom not all. And now in the end, one more sentence. We will now privatize and INA will finish it and now we will give this new owner the opportunity... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14651	Thank you very much. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Representatives Marin Brkarić, Marija Habek, Luka Denon, Šime Lučina and Dragutin Bodakush in Article 58?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14652	The Government does not accept the same reasoning as the second and third amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14653	Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14654	The problems that are trying to solve through this law are obviously work on Sundays, the most, but it seems to me that Sundays should have been dealt with by some other laws in a different way through a larger way.In this way, the attempt to resolve the work through the Law of Trade in any case was a little schizophrenic to take care of only half a week in the year, and the second half of the week is not spoken of and does not take account and in this way it seems to be an additional major damage to tourism, especially in the part of Croatia that is intensively engaged in tourism, and it seems to me that tourism does not have a limited season, that the tourist season, according to the knowledge in Croatia as we live, lasts all year. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14655	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 of the same representatives to Article 58
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14656	The Government does not accept the same reasoning as for Amendments 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14657	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14658	Here's just two more words. The fact is that the non-acceptation of amendments by a group of representatives who are also members of the Committee on Tourism, but also by not accepting the proposal of the Ministry of Tourism, obviously this law in part of Article 58 becomes an anti-tourism law and anti-enterprise law. Indeed, I would say regrettable, and I believe that they will experience the same fate as the law of the 00 promiscuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14659	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of the Economic and Social Committee to Article 58
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14660	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14661	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Seven. The Committee on Economy shall, on the basis of Article 59.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14662	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14663	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8. The SDP representative's club shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14664	In part, the government accepts this amendment, and if the honourable MPs agree, as follows. Therefore, in Article 60(1), subparagraph 3 of this Article, the words "suvenir" are deleted. For the same item to be added to subparagraph 6 which reads: "Specialized shops...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14665	I'm sorry, there's something wrong here. Here the Legislative Committee is marked as the 7th Amendment, and then I see here MPs Slavko Linic, Gordan Maras and Davor Bernardić would be 8. and we return to Amendment 8 of Representatives Slavko Linić, Gordan Maras and Davor Beernardic on Article 60. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14666	That's right. The amendment is therefore partly accepted in a way that reads as follows: In Article 60(1) of subparagraph 3, the words "suvenated" are deleted, in the same paragraph, to add subparagraph 6 which reads: "Specialised souvenir shops" In that case, in the same article in paragraph 2: "hours" is deleted, the words "and shops referred to in paragraph 1 of subparagraph 6 may start working at the earliest of 6 hours, and end with work no later than 21 hours".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14667	Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14668	Thank you very much. Accepting this modified amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14669	Thank you. This modified amendment proposal states that the lady presented the accepted amendment. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 68
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14670	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14671	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 78
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14672	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14673	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 11. The Committee on Legislatives shall, in accordance with Article 82.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14674	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14675	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 82
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14676	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14677	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 13th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 83
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14678	The government accepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-14-0.u14679	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Trade. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, one abstention and 47 against along with the amendments adopted. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. The proposal for an act is divided into benches. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to explain the motion for a decision. Mr. Damir Sesvečan, chairman of the commission.
