ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14719	The esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the council. I am opening the sixth session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader, Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. I invite you to pay tribute to the fallen Croatian defenders, to all civilian war victims and all fallen for Croatia, as well as to the representative, the minister, the Vukovar defender, the deceased Dr. Jurjo Njavri. A moment of silence, may they have eternal glory and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament have been received at the session. Any objections to the record? If not, I would like to say that we have adopted the minutes of the 5th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I included 4 new points under regular number 29 to 32 and these are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158. Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155 Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 157. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disasters for Southeast Europe, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 156. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down before deciding on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that last session we decided to conduct an emergency hearing on points 1 to 5 and on point 8, the final draft agenda. They are, therefore, from 1st to 5th and point 8th in the final proposal. The final draft agenda under points 10, 13 and 15 and paragraphs 29 to 32 shall state the laws proposing the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in protecting against natural and civilization disasters, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 147. Proposal for a law to confirm the Agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness and to respond to the sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea of larger scales, with the Final Bill Proposal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 146. Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 153. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electoral Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, with the Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P. Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, with the final proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 157. Proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of agreement on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative for disasters for Southeast Europe, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 156. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? There isn't. We're going to the vote. What? ... Yes, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14720	Your Honor, Mr. President. In an effort to bring our legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union as soon as possible and, therefore, in this barristered effort, it happens to us that certain laws are not done properly, nor are they in conformity with the Constitution, and some are contrary to other laws. One of these laws was, and this was seen yesterday in a debate, a detailed debate, a long-term debate on the Justice Committee, is also the law or the Law on private detectives. Given the many new legal institutions, since the disputes that were under discussion yesterday on the committee, we propose that the law be adopted by regular procedure. It may be during this session, but that's what I suggest, to make it as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14721	The government has accepted your proposal. It's going to be a regular procedure. Here you go, MP Mr. Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14722	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I would, on the very basis of the Rules of Procedure and the establishment of the agenda, in some way ask for advice or an application, given that I cannot find a way in our Rules of Procedure to make a burning topic in this country which, apart from a multiple agenda, does not come to the agenda. Namely, I believe that the state of security or the report on the conduct of police work cannot deserve 58, 52 or I don't know which place or maybe we're waiting for the Day of the Dead, and then we'll do it conveniently at that time. I'm asking you, Mr. President, not to give me any warning, even though it's not here in the Rules of Procedure. It's just a plea that's well-intentioned to discuss it urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14723	Thank you. We'll consider and see what we can do to get to the agenda as soon as possible. We are now going to vote on an emergency procedure for these proposals. Yeah. Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14724	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm just warning you that this is where you put your agenda under point 30. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, etc. We, as it is known, should not actually change electoral legislation in a year before the elections are held. Given the local elections, our regular local elections are in May next year, so less than a year from today. I warn of this conflict, therefore, with the Law amending electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14725	Thank you. I have the opinion that this applies to state elections, not local elections, but we've been accepting and receiving your remarks. Can we go to the vote now? We can. Who's for use... We could get involved. Here you go. Come on in. Thank you. We'll vote on the HDZ club's proposal by raising our hands. Please establish the quorum. 124 MPs present, we have a quorum. We're going to vote by raising our hands. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? One. I find that most votes, 123 for and 1 abstentions have accepted this proposal. Who is ready and ready to respond to the extraordinary pollutions of the Adriatic Sea in greater proportions for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of an agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness for and response to the extraordinary pollution of the Adriatic Sea? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. This proposal was unanimously accepted, 124 votes. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Assembly? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that most of the vote, of the 103 votes, 21 against the accepted proposal. Fourth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 120 for, 3 against, 1 abstentions are accepted. Fifth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 117 for, 2 against and 5 abstentions have accepted this proposal. Sixth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the City of Zagreb? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that most votes, 121 votes for and 3 abstentions have accepted this proposal. Six, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on, we had that. Thank you. Seven, who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of an initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters for Southeast Europe. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 124 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda includes 11 laws that comply with the European Union's rules, of which 9 are an emergency procedure. I pointed out earlier that the urgency of acts on points 3 and 4 was decided at the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament. Acts not included in the previous session, bearing the P.Z.E. marking. and for which emergency procedures are required, are included in the final draft agenda under points 12, 14, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 28. In accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure, which comply with the regulations of the European Union, shall be subject to an emergency procedure if the applicant so requests and shall not be voted upon. Point 12. We decided with the government's consent to go in two readings. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, the objection can now only be made to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Those acts shall be referred to in points 29 to 32 of the final agenda. These points were declared on the occasion of a decision on urgency, and there were no objections either. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda. I suggest in accordance with our current custom, if you agree, that I do not read it fully but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda with these amendments that we have adopted in terms of first and second readings, i.e. urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I'm going to propose an addition of the sixth session agenda to the points I'm going to read. And the materials are in the 10.00-hour boxes this morning. Please establish the quorum. Thank you. 91. We have a quorum. We can start by supplementing the agenda. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the Final Bill is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 159 2. The proposal for a primacy law with the Final Bill is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 160. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Biochemical Activity with the Final Proposal for the Law, also emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 161. 4. Proposal for a Law on Physical Activity with the Final Bill is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 162 5. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Medicine with the Final Bill is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 163. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on sisterhood, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 164. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmacy with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 165. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on dental activity with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 166. Nine. Proposal for a law on general administrative procedure, first reading, no. 168. Ten. Proposal for a law on architectural engineering and spatial planning and construction activities, first reading, P.Z. No. 167. 11. Proposal for a law on the pursuit of geodetic activity first reading, also first reading, P.Z. 169. 12. Proposal and decision to resolve the appointment so far of a new member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 13. Report on the audit of the financial report and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2007, Proposer of the State Audit Office. 14. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Deputy Advocate and Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, Proposer, Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. 15. Proposals for decisions on the resolution of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the appointment of a new president, vice-president and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 16. Proposals for a decision on the resolution of the current president and the work of members and the appointment of a new president and the work of members of the Competition Protection Council, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Those are the laws I read, P.Z. The 159th, 160th, 161, 162, 163rd, 164th, 165th and 166th are in line with European Union regulations, and we do not vote in the event of an emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of these laws. Any of the representatives of the objection to the inclusion of other proposed points in the agenda of the 6th session? If not, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14728	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. I would ask you that if possible, it means when a consolidated agenda is given, since some MPs have other obligations to at least know the day in advance at least with which point they move along the consolidated agenda. I would, if it wasn't a practice to appeal to you so far, that it was you who would introduce that practice so that MPs could at least be in a position to talk about the point they're interested in, in charge or in charge of talking. Here, thank you very much, with the hope that you will honor this appeal of mine on behalf of the other representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14729	Okay. Thank you very much. I'm trying as hard as it is in my power, because there are others who, let's say, were there a point in the agenda before, so it didn't come to order, so for some reason, she skipped out, so there wasn't a committee report, so there was no proposing present, so it wasn't some other condition to discuss the agenda. I try to clear the agenda every time, put it here before the session starts, and if someone asks to place a point sooner or later because it can't be present and similar to all the factors I have to take care of, and not just one. So whenever possible, whenever we inform the representatives in time, we will do so. But it should be from the fact that the primary task of the representative is to be in the session whether he is ready or not or ready or to talk about a particular item of the agenda or not. So, of course I want us all to be as happy as possible, but it's impossible to make it ideal to prepare and determine. Let's say, I'm often exposed to questions when this point will come to the agenda. When it comes to the agenda, I do not know, or know when it will come to the agenda, but how long it will take for a single point to predict. Because when we put some point in the debate, then let's say one or two clubs or one or two representatives have been reported. And once the debate begins, there are five or seven clubs, so then there are 20 MPs and who can predict when that point will come to the agenda. So I ask you to have the understanding of these difficulties that we have. We have no reason to do anything that wouldn't be in some way an effort to satisfy all of us actually what we want. But it's impossible to reconcile what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14730	But at least we know the first two points of the agenda. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14731	I think we missed something and that's okay. It's an applicability. We were supposed to tell you what point to start with on Wednesday. It's just missed. It's been missed. It wasn't intentional, but it was missed, but here's the second time we'll fix it, and then for a break that we have over the weekend, we'll try to announce at least one or two points that will be the first, and then we'll see the rest. Here, thank you very much. This is where you were delivered the purified agenda. He's also as you can see increased. Now we have 73 points of the agenda. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me at the beginning of this session, at the beginning of this session of today's session to remember today is the 25th of September mentioning the day that we mark the day of the decision to unite Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the island with the queen of the country of Croatia. In 2005, the Croatian Parliament established September 25th as the day of mentioning the unity of Croatian territory, a day that marked the achievement of the Croatian people's centuries-long aspirations for national and social liberation from the foreign authorities and association with Matica hrvatska. On September 13, 1943, the liberating board for Istria declared the unification of Istria with its queen country. In Pazin, on September 25th, the decision on the accession of Istria to Croatia was confirmed at the Assembly of the Istrian National Liberation Committee. On 20 September 1943 ZAVNOH extended the decision and declared the accession of the rest of Croatia, while the decisions of ZAVNOH were also the other real and legal basis of the final and irrevocable merger until then divided or torn Croatian ethnic areas with the queen of the country. In a declaration to the people of Istria, I quote: “Our people have shown a high national consciousness. He proved to everyone and everyone that Istria is a Croatian country and that Croatia will remain. We will never again allow our fate to be played by others." It's a finished quote. This year, 2008 marks the 65th anniversary of the September Paz Decisions, which fall into the brightest events in the history of Istria and Croatia. The Croatian Parliament is the sponsor of this anniversary, and by accepting patronage over the 65th anniversary of the Paz Decisions, Croatia's membership and commitment to the values of anti-fascism has once again been clearly confirmed. Of course, the memorial day, so here, let's remember those 65 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14734	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here we propose that points 14, 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21 be united because they really talk about the same problem of harmonisation of these laws with the European Union and only in one short segment. In particular, to hold a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Reception and the Proposal for a Law on Physical Activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14735	The 15th session of the Economic Committee will be held today at 14:00 at the "Stepan Radic" Hall. That is notified by Committee President Dragan Kovacevic. Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced that we will try to complete the agenda of this session around 12:00. Please establish the quorum. We have 84 agents. I suggest that the agenda of this session be completed with the points. First, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law is an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 172. Second, the proposal for a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products with the Final Proposal for the Law, also an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. 173. Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, also emergency procedure P.Z.E. No. 174. Fourth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 170. Fifth, Final proposal of the Law on Public Private Partnership, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 126. Sixth, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 125. Seven, Final proposal of the Law on concessions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 129. Eight, Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 171. Ninth, Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2007, proposed by the Croatian Small Economy Agency. 10th, Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media from 1 November 2006 to 31 December 2007, Proposer of the Council for Electronic Media. And the eleventh, Proposal for a decision to declare the Day of ties in the Republic of Croatia, the Proposer of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I stress that the laws, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. 172. then Proposal for a Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 173, third Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. In 173 it is in line with the European Union rules, so we do not vote in an emergency procedure when adopting this law. This is Article 161. Rules of Procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Trade? There isn't. Let's vote. Who is to be classified under the urgent procedure of the Trade Act? Thank you. Against? I doubt 87 votes because some MPs didn't raise their hands. Please, we repeat the vote. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure on the Trade Act? About amending and supplementing the Trade Act, please who's to be included? Thank you. Against? Thank you. It's not for this. I confirm that the majority of the vote 63 votes in favour of, 24 against, an emergency procedure has been voted for by the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. As you can see, I was right, it wasn't the first real vote. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the session agenda, session 6? There isn't. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. I received a proposal from Dragutin Lesar, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, for the addition of the agenda of the 6th session in which Mr Lesar suggests that, given that the report on the course of the negotiation process of the Republic of Croatia was included in the work of the National Council of the European Union during the Presidency of the Council of 1 January to 30 June 2008, that this report was sent to the representatives, and on the work of the National Council was included in this submission, on the work of the National Council, on this item of the agenda, Mr Representative proposes that the agenda of the 6th session be completed with this report and held a joint discussion with the report on the work of the National Committee. I don't think there's any reason not to throw out the debate, a united debate this report on the course of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and this report on the work of the National Committee, so I think we could accept this proposal. Does anyone else have an opinion? Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to continue with the session, I suggest you clear the agenda that's multiplying, so you'll get it very soon. Let's go as announced here. So the final draft law on, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments, on the safety of rail transport. Then, and then place three, the second item would be the Interior Minister's report on police affairs. Then, the final draft law amending and supplementing the Trade Act would be third. And then there would be a report on the work of the National Development Committee from 1 January to 31 December 2007. So then we said we'd discuss that item on the agenda together with, as proposed by Mr. Lesar. However, a report has arrived, which has not been discussed on boards. And in agreement with the President of the National Committee, for all this to be done and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the committees of this debate, we will move a little bit, here it is foreseen in the consolidated text to go to ninth place, so we will allow the committees to discuss it. And in one of these reports, the government has not given its opinion, so it will be the ninth item of the agenda in the consolidated text. So, in any case, we are now going to the draft law on the Railway Safety Agency, the Internal Affairs Minister's Report, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Trade and so on. Here. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14737	Thank you, Mr. President. It's all true what you said, the only thing in the defense of the National Committee I have to say is that there hasn't been a report on the first six months in the meantime, but the National Committee discussed it 10. 7th, but this was obviously some kind of confusion in the procedure, but just to be clear, the National Committee did it in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14738	We move to before we move to this point, I would like the gentlemen of MPs and MPs to vote, we predict the vote around 13.00 hours, then the clubs ask to gather their representatives and the third key to the vote, because our Maric each time is one twenty, thirty new, so always forgets. I don't know why we don't keep those keys, all of them, and that applies to most of them. Somewhere we keep, there's a vote on Friday, and then Maric doesn't have to run there and make these new keys. So, around 13.00, I'm asking you to gather around. And one more, please. On Tuesday, there will be a meeting on Independence Day. We've been working here for, like, three weeks, there's been a lot of paper piled up, and I'm asking you to get all those papers that are no longer current, which can already be abandoned or placed somewhere else, so that we can get them out of the bench and set them up so that our guests, as well as the representatives who will come to that session, and also the guests that we don't burden them with this amount of paper, right? So I'm asking you when we're done today to cut it down a little bit, if not all of it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we could wait another five minutes until the 13 hours are fulfilled, but for rationality, I think we can if we have a quorum. Let's see. I'd like the MPs and the MPs to join in. Get involved, get involved, no matter what counts this gentleman upstairs. Please, let's get on with it. Then we'll have to wait a few minutes. I ask the MPs and the MPs who are here somewhere in the Parliament's rooms to join us so they can start voting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have a quorum. There are 86 MPs present. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please be my guest on behalf of the club, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14740	Mr. President, 15 MPs have reported that there is no key, so I ask you to vote by hand for the laws and amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14741	Thank you very much. It's possible according to the Rules of Procedure. We're going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of the 6th session to the following points: 1. A report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008, is submitted by the National Committee, 2. Proposal for a revision of the Strategy for Action Plan for the protection of the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 3. The report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2000 to 2007, is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the session agenda? Yeah. Vice-President Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14742	I have Mr. President's objection to the fact that we don't get these supplemental proposals in writing, but this is how we have to follow these words of yours, and I think it's a superficial approach. Please assure us in the future that we will receive the supplemental proposal on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14743	I've been informed by the secretary of the plenary session that the materials have been sent. ... Here are those agenda points. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When we expand the agenda, then we'll put MPs on the bench, but here we are today, right? So there's no objection to listing, is there? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we adopted these three points and placed them on the agenda. We're going to vote on the debated points. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all and continue the work of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. As notified, I will propose in accordance with Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda with a point - Proposal for trust to the proposed members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Tomislav Karamark for Minister of Interior and Prof. dr. Ivan Shimonovic as justice minister. I would also like to inform you that, on a proposal of 41 representatives of the SDP Club, it is in accordance with Article 113. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament tabled a proposal to raise the issue of trust to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Evey Sanader. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the proposal to launch a trust issue to the Prime Minister shall be included in the agenda without decision. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the item – Proposal to show confidence to the proposed members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Tomislav Karamark for Minister of Interior and Prof. dr. Ivan Shimonovic for Minister of Justice? Any objections? There isn't. I am voting on this proposal. Looks like the keys are trouble again, so please raise your hands. Unfortunately, the problem has already been several times. That's what we're gonna have to talk about, but let's not talk about today. I am voting on this proposal to supplement the agenda. Please, who's in favor of supplementing the agenda I suggested raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. Thank you. I say unanimously, with 142 votes, the proposed agenda has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hereby declare that the agenda has been completed with these two points. There's no discussion about this other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14746	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14747	Thank you very much. Congratulations to MP Mili Horvat, wishing him success and good work together with all of us in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced that today we will begin with the agenda final draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I intend to suggest that according to Article 223. Let the Rules of Procedure unite this and the following two points, so on the selection of mayors and mayors, mayors and amendments to the Law on the City of Zagreb. However, if you agree, the Government has sent a proposal and a significant amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act on Deposit Insurance. I think it's a topic that's very important that it comes into effect as soon as possible, so if we agree to discuss this item of the agenda first and if we have a quorum to declare that agenda point as soon as possible and enter into force, that is. and then this deposit insurance law will come into effect as soon as possible for the general purpose of all of our citizens. So I would suggest that this agenda item be discussed first, there is the finance minister, and then we would move to these three agenda points on local and regional (regional) self-government. Any other opinions? If it doesn't, then we'll discuss this agenda point that's here the fourth to discuss as the first. I would also like to inform you that the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June, the Report on the course of the negotiation process, the draft decision. Report on the work of the National Committee in the period of January to June 2008, Report on the course of the negotiation process shall be discussed tomorrow. I propose that we discuss these three points on the National Committee, which we will also propose, together, tomorrow because we would then ensure that the foreign minister and others who wish to participate. It's impossible today, so if they get to that point, then we'll skip them. I'm doing all this together because we're really going whenever we can on the agenda, but here's what I suggest we discuss from tomorrow morning these three points, and these are what we're going to do after we discuss these three local self-government. I told the Government in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we would discuss it as soon as possible by the Rules of Procedure, and as soon as possible on Saturday. Since the Rules of Procedure provide for at least 7 days from the submission of the proposal, it means 7 days from the submission of the proposal so that it can be discussed at the session of the Assembly. So, this is possible according to the explicit provision of the Rules of Procedure, there is no reason to argue before, but according to the explicit provision of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to pass at least 7 days from the receipt of the proposal in the parliamentary procedure, so that is possible 18. So it's realistic to expect next week that this point will come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14748	Before voting on this final draft of the Act amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, I would like to propose to supplement the agenda of the 6th session to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, emergency procedure, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on assistance and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue, emergency procedure, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria supplementing the European Convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters supplemented by the Additional Protocol of the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and on facilitating its application, the emergency procedure, 4. Final bill on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, second reading, 5. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, First Reading, 6. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008, 7. Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Let's figure out the quorum first. Please engage! The result? 79, we have a valid quorum. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests? There isn't. Please, let's go to the vote. Let's get on with it. Who's to apply the emergency procedure of this law? We can vote. The result? 80 for one abstention. It's listed as an emergency procedure. Who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on aid and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimously with 82 votes in favour and this proposal of the final law included in the agenda by emergency procedure. The Act approving the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria supplementing the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters complemented by the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and on facilitating its application. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Consistent with 80 votes in favour and this bill is going by emergency procedure. Any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the session agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the addition of the agenda has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and the government's competent members. Before we move to the agenda, I call on attorney Anna Lovrin to swear. First, I will read the text of the oath and then call upon a representative who will swear by standing up and saying the word “I swear”. The text of the oath reads: “I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.”
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14750	... Mr. President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I swear!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14751	I'm saying good-bye. We begin today's meeting of the Croatian Assembly with the sixth item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness and response to sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea in greater proportions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 146 But before we go to that agenda point, on behalf of the SDP Club, he's looking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14752	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Democracys can get into problems and difficult situations in different ways, but the only way to get out of these conditions is to strengthen democratic institutions and their indifference. We've been talking about a lot of things for the past few weeks, unfortunately, five terrible things happened yesterday that some might interpret as terrorism, and I won't, because until we hear who's responsible and who's taking responsibility and who and what political goal declares terrorism in a political sense, we don't want to talk and we don't want to shine panic. Of course, any such action that is a terrorist sows fear and panic and, therefore, in a broader sense of the word can be qualified as terrorism, but in today's modern political not. It is important to us that after this meeting of the National Security Council of the second in two weeks, which does not mean an emergency, but means that something very serious is going on in the country that we need to talk about, we hold very important that the president of the Croatian Government who received confidence in this House a few days ago comes to the Assembly and informs us about what has been said and decided at the National Security Council. It's our call, an appeal, interpret it as you will and we believe that at this point it is an elemental democratic standard. So we're looking for information after the National Security Council meeting. Today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14753	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So before my colleague Milanovic put this out, I knew before she knew what she was going to say, I also applied and we absolutely support this proposal. So we believe that after the National Security Council meeting, the Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior should come to us here in Parliament, they may have already decided, but in any case they should come here to the Parliament to report on what they can publicly report, on the moves they are withdrawing. Because now it's really been five minutes to twelve, obviously it takes some moves not in 15 days, 30 days we've given to the ministers in the Parliament to brief us, now it's too long. The moves should be withdrawn this week. We therefore propose and support this proposal to call on the prime minister and interior minister in Parliament and to brief us on the conclusions of the National Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14755	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14756	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives. It's being held today, here we are in 20 minutes of the National Security Council, after how familiar I am with the session of the government itself. But surely there is no body that can send a stronger, stronger, more credible message than this Parliament. It would be wise for someone from the government now, I am clearly thinking about the Prime Minister, to come and tell us what to do even though I believe that on the National Security Council, we will hear what is really not happening, because we know it, we see it, but what is going to happen. If, on the other hand, I dare say that after what happened yesterday in Zagreb, it will go on. I dare say that what happened to Miss Hodak, in some way a message to the prime minister, is what happened to Mr. Pukanic in some way to the president of the state. If there was a collapse of institutions or leaders, the country itself would collapse. If the country were to lose government in some way, then surely it would be the victory of the underworld. It is clear that at this moment there is no reason for any state of emergency, but I dare say, whatever anyone thinks in this country has reason to study Croatia too. Last night, I had a chance to speak to the American ambassador when he told me in some way that the underworld gave neither Karamark nor Mr. Shimonovic the opportunity. Clearly, at this point there is no reason for early elections, perhaps not for the government of national unity, but there is a reason to achieve some kind of consensus between the position and the opposition, because this is the creation of chaos with one purpose, the destruction of institutions to profit from the underworld, and therefore the responsible position and opposition must not simply allow it. It's clear that all that's happening today in the country, it's primarily the consequence of an 18-year-old indemnity from what happened until the 1990s when some people
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14757	Mr. Representative, we're not having a debate, but please try to formulate a request on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14758	... which today may have led organised crime at the top of the government, and after 2000 at the top of the country's economic power and business.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14759	What's your request, I didn't hear anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14760	You may not have heard, but I will repeat what I said. That at this point there is no more credible body than the Croatian Parliament and that it would be notified that someone from the Government, above all I think of the Prime Minister not of anyone else, comes here after the National Security Council session and after the Government held, will it be at 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 o'clock a night, reporting on the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14761	Okay. Thank you very much. Now it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14762	I think I've made myself clear before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14763	No, I don't. No, I don't. Anything but that, unfortunately. I'll tell the Prime Minister and we'll see what happens for the National Security Council. ... Your request will be passed on to the Prime Minister and that is what my duty is as formulated by the clubs that have spoken here. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] So why would you be looking for other clubs' attitudes? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, this position that you have expressed will be passed on to the Prime Minister and we will see behind what will be further. You will be informed of the answer. And now we're moving on to the agenda. So, the legislator of the law that I have said is the Government of the Republic of Croatia......... Please, the clubs have made their demands. I'll transfer those requests to where you requested them, it's to the Prime Minister. After that, allow me, Mr. Representative, just to finish and then I'll give you the answer we'll get from the government. You can't ask for anything before the National Security Council has even started. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14764	Mr. Vice President. The proposal has been presented to Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14765	Name an item, an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14766	So the entire Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, let Parliament decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14767	No, I don't. According to our Rules of Procedure, when the club asks for a prime minister or someone to come to the Parliament, then the chairman conveys it further and gives the answer as it was. And beyond that, it's being debated. It is not up to Parliament to decide whether or not to present this position. Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, distinguished representative Zoran Milanovic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This situation can be interpreted one way or another. What I want to point out is that ours, I'm not going to make a request, you take the appeal as a request. So we're asking very seriously. We haven't heard the position of the HDZ club, but it is our position and attitude of some other clubs here in the Croatian Parliament and according to the Prime Minister's obvious and reaction to this request or we will appeal and we will manifest ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14769	If there were only one club they'd pass it on as if it were a request from all the clubs. Had it been for only one representative, they would have transmitted it as well as all the MPs. Therefore, it has the same importance as your three clubs that made that request. They'll be transferred, I'll report. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before further discussion, the Deputy Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities will swear pursuant to Article 23. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. First I'll read the text of the oath and then I'll call the deputy and deputy attorney for disabled persons who swear by standing up and saying, "I swear!". The text of the oath reads: "I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will exercise my duty in a fair, honorable, conscientious and impartial way in the best interests of persons with disabilities." Deputy Advocate Mira Pekec Knezevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14771	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14772	Thank you. Deputy Attorney Boris Jakov Geričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14773	I swear. I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14775	Congratulations on your oath. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14776	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking a question to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Articles 180 to 184. The current morning is held at the beginning of the session, before moving to the agenda points. I would just like to add that I am asking the MPs to concentrate on questions and not to pass the time, we have lost here, we have moved the beginning of the session in half an hour, and so we have 41, 42 questions and please be precise and precise, to ask questions without great elaboration and also to get from members of the government also a core, concrete and short answer. We start by asking questions. The first is Mr. Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14777	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed representative of the Croatian Government. The Croatian Government is systematically discussing action plans that will bring us into the European Union at the fifth speed. According to the dynamics of the negotiations and the chapters that we open, we see that the oil has been slightly burned, that the gearbox is a bit stuck, but I have found this as an introduction only for the reason that one of the main challenges of speaking diplomatic dictionaries, according to Croatia, is the situation in the Croatian judiciary. At the same time in the Grand Court of Land in Munich on 4 July this year, the German court found that, I say, "Croatia and Germany bind each other to the Treaty of Legal Assistance in Criminal Procedures, but that Croatia proved absolutely unoperative, that there is no legal cooperation with Croatia, that it is questionable that Croatia is a legal state and that from Croatia's accession to the European Union as regards the judiciary and the rule of law, I will certainly decide the gentleman in Brussels." It is Mr. President that I remind you of the position taken by the German court after the verdict on the murder of Stjepan Djurekovic. The German court found that, despite the objective possibility for this, Croatia did not provide all the necessary legal assistance, not only in this case but also in the lighting of the entire series of executions of Croatian immigrants in Germany from 1968 to 1990. The court of friendly Germany has therefore established that Croatia is actually covering up and protecting murderers... The secret police. [[You don't understand.]] I ask the question: Mr. President, what is the government thinking of doing, are you already doing or are you going to bring an action plan to drive out of the den of the refugee murderers and their employers and who is responsible for causing damage to Croatia's international reputation in the process against persons in front of the Munich High Earth Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14778	Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14779	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. I'm glad you asked that question, because that's the way you quoted it. Namely, it's only one side of the medal. It's the side of the medals of a German institution and their view of things. The other side of the medal is completely different. Croatia is helping not only because of this bilateral agreement, but also because of our obligation to sanction all communist crimes whether it is a matter of uportian crimes, whether it is a matter of some participatory who persecuted Croatian emigration and killed Croatian emigration and created the forbidden term of the emigration of Croatia. So, when we talk today about every crime being sanctioned regardless of when it happened and it doesn't get old, it happened in World War II, in the beginning, in Bleiburg and the Crossway, and when I mention it, I will use this opportunity to make it very clear to the position of the government and the Croatian Democratic Community. They're inadmissible interpretations that they're in Bleiburg so someone's been defending themselves since he finished his work or anything else. Inadmissible qualifications of any kind that could justify any crime on Bleiburg and Crossroad. They're absolutely inadmissible and I don't think they work well for Croatia. I have said on several occasions that Croatia is tired of the past, precisely because of these disputes, which does not mean that we must not and must not, for the sake of our future and for the sake of our children and generations who come behind us, face this past, not in a way that we all together, our complete, our complete substance that we can use to build Croatia and achieve these two great goals that you have stated, to enter NATO and the European Union, but also to make Croatia a greater standard of living. In this we are wasting the substance political and our time, and our strength. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't and don't have to face any suicides abroad, from Djurekovic to Djapic and everyone else, to Busic, etc. Therefore, for our future's sake, judicial authorities should do their job and cooperate with both German institutions and with everyone else. We'll investigate it, the minister's already investigating it, to see where it wasn't working with the German institutions. But I repeat once again, I propose also as Prime Minister and as president of the strongest party that we are not engaged in Croatia, because it's like if someone puts care on our feet and we don't move forward. We have to move forward. I am interested as Prime Minister in what I, as Prime Minister and President of the strongest party, can do for Croatia, for Croatian citizens to live better, but not forgetting our past. And that's why every crime can't be any difference in interpretation. The crimes in Jasenovac are catastrophic, one of the biggest shames of the Croatian people, but also a crime in Bleiburg and a crime on the Crossroad and the murders that occurred later during the communist regime. It is my answer and we will continue to do so, but as the Government and the Executive Authority we cannot interfere, because there is a trio of the Authority and I appeal to all institutions in Croatia to do their percentage and let all these cases be enlightened.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14780	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14781	I am relatively and very pleased with the government president's response. We really don't need to fight for a better past, but for a better future, but the synchronization of such monster crimes is I would say the imperative of the Croatian judiciary, Croatia... For the purer future ahead of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We expect that not only will the Croatian government cooperate with other countries on these situations, but that the Croatian judiciary will finally begin to process these situations, that we do not wait for Germany to prepare 13 processes against killing Croatian immigrants, that the Croatian State's Attorney General is doing nothing about it. We always know, Mr. President, that when we talk about these kinds of processes, so... war crimes and political liquidation, that there must always be a climate of political, political will for the judiciary to start its work on this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I hope the state attorney watched this session and heard what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14782	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14783	Dear President of the Parliament, Prime Ministers, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Master Božidar Pankretić. On July 17th, I received a table showing the agricultural exchange in the first 5 months of this year compared to the first 5 months of last year. I'd only read a few interesting numbers from those tables. In the first 5 months of last year, the Republic of Croatia exported 343m euros worth of food and agricultural products, and in the same period, imports amounted to as much as 600m euros, so the export coverage was 56% last year. In the first five months of this year, the situation has changed. Exports grow 1.6%, but imports grow 14.8%. Therefore, imports grow 9 times faster than exports, and export coverage is now only 50% which is the lowest rate in our country's history. Since we know the importance of agriculture in our overall economy in the fight against inflation in exports, I must remind you that in your presentations when you sat in the minister's chair, you spoke quite the opposite of what we have today. You promised the opposite of what we have today. In our programs, we have conflicting data from what I've read, so my question, Mr. Minister, is, do you at least consider resigning as a minister? I'm not asking if you're going to resign, but do you ever think about her?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14784	Thank you. Mr. Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14785	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. We'll think about it another time, but I'll answer you specifically, what you asked and what you did in your question, and that's our balance sheet. I must say, I thank you for this question, because I will have the opportunity to explain to the Croatian public certain things as they stand. I think that we now had in this time in the Croatian public, especially in the media certain research that would be discussed, because I would say that they used a rather problematic methodology and we can say freely that they were quite unreliable, who said that in some way consumption in Croatia food fell by 13%, so then I would say to them inconclusive conclusions in the media that food was missing somewhere. Speaking of concrete data, then we need to know exactly that in the first 6 months of this year compared to the first 6 months of last 2007, imports increased exactly 2.3%. We also have to say that at that same time it was 36.7% financially, but we also need to know why it's happening. The increase in food prices, the increase in food prices on the world market in some segments is almost 100%. And you need to know that he had the most direct impact on the financial increase in imports in this part. If we look at the current indicators, we will be able to very responsibly conclude that the quantity imports this year in 2008 will almost be lower than they amounted to in 2006 and 2005. So, as far as the quantity is concerned, we can say that we can be satisfied, but even though when we had 1% of the increase, we are far satisfied. I will say what else it affects in this part and what we will try to do to change, and that is the relationship between cargo and the euro. You know very well that our balance is being converted into dollars and 70% of our imports of agricultural and food products are from the European Union market, therefore it is in euro. The relationship between the euro and the dollar has affected the financial negativity of the balance sheet in this part. I'll tell you a few very concrete examples in that part, which is, for example, that when you look at certain increases that we've had, for example, many mention fruit. Fruit is, fruit imports have dropped 2% in the first six months, and when we look at quantitatively, cost-effectively and financially it has increased by 36%. Why do I mention fruit? Because I think Croatia has the greatest chance of producing fruit. But we must say that 50% of this valuable fruit import is fruit that Croatia will never produce. Therefore, we need to know that when we analyze the situation. Also, I'm going to say something that's mentioned in public, which is, for example, importing frozen beef where imports fell 3%, but unfortunately, it grew financially by almost 36%. When we look at such relationships, then we have to say, this is one process in which we will also move with those measures that are short-term and with which we intervene on the market but also with long-term measures. You've never heard me and it's wrong that I made a promise, and the least I could promise to change the balance in a short time. It's a long-term process we'll have to work on for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14786	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14787	Mr. President of the Parliament, you asked us to be clear and concise both in asking questions and in answers. The minister answered something that had nothing to do with my question. So please, so please allow me to tell him to think for two, three weeks, what I asked him about the situation in Croatia's Agrara, about the consequences of this situation and to answer me in writing afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14788	From what I understand, you're looking for a written answer, because it's impossible in three, four minutes exactly what you're asking to say, is, so here, that's an additional question, actually a written question. Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Mariana Petir's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14789	Mr. President, MPs, MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I refer my question to the environment minister, Ms. Marini Matulović-Dropulic. Minister, I met two days ago with environmental associations and local residents in Pićan and related to the problems that occur with the production process of the Stone wool factory Rockwool. Many complaints from environmental associations and locals are now going to the factory as well as local and county authorities, which is why they submitted certain submissions to the state's attorney's office. But also doubting the correctness of the measurement that Rockwool and feeling the problems that are affecting their health today, they have tried and carried out their own measurements that have shown that the values of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, but also the volume of oxygen content do not correspond to the measurements that Rockwool presents in public. I was also informed that Rockwool is using water in its production process and from the Ministry of Regional Development from Croatian Waters I received a clear answer that Rockwool has not received a water draw concession until today. In order to determine what the real truth is in the Istrian county of Pićan and when it comes to Rockwool, I would like to know whether you want to coordinate and whether you can coordinate other ministries and direct all inspection services to the ground, and whether you are willing to allocate funds and carry out independent measurements in order to actually learn the real truth about Rockwool?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14790	Thank you very much. Here you go, Ms. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14791	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I have to say, there's still a few words to say. Namely, you must all know that as far as Rockwool is concerned that in 2002, a spatial plan of the county was adopted, that the Pićan spatial plan was adopted in 2005 and that the urban plan of the industrial zone was adopted. In all these plans, there was an industrial zone in Pican. These plans, for all public debates carried out through all plans, mean each time a month, not a single remark, there was no one association. After these plans were adopted, an environmental impact study was conducted. The environmental impact study was on the public debate, on public insight, also for a month, there was no single comment. Afterwards, the company received a local and construction permit, and there were no single complaints about these permits. After that, they began to build and build a factory and come and go for a test drive. The test drive identified certain irregularities and our inspection stopped the test drive and it lasted 8 months until they matched the complete documentation and received additional permits. After that, they were granted a re-drive. There are five automatic measurement stations in the factory. On two automatic measurement stations, there are no people, no measuring apparatus, at automatic measurement stations each day, measured SO2, CO, H2S and floating particles up to 10 microns per two. And that's where the measurement is followed, so the measurement is followed and sent to the Ministry of our Ministry of Environmental Protection and to the Department of Public Health of the County every day, to the websites. Second, follow... means on three pages of the Institute of Medical Research all heavy metal lead, cadmium, nickel, arsenic, mercury, copper, zinc, sulphate, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's all being monitored at these stations. What actually for, our inspection is constantly present there, means on the Rockwool itself and constantly monitors the events. As for continuous surveillance and our coordinated surveillance, we're doing it with all the inspections as to how the object of order comes to us, we're at this moment, for example. in Herbos and so we go on, so there will be such surveillance in Rockwool, but what really worries is that the mistrust in institutions and companies that have experts and who have licenses, who have the licenses for certain measurements, and suddenly it turns out that someone has been conducting an interrogation without knowing anything at all, or who, or with any results, because they have never warned anyone of anything. Therefore, we will do everything that Rockwool works and works according to the law and the way it has to work So we will do everything that "Rockwool" works and works according to the law and how it has to work. So if there are other things that need to be further explored, we will look into it here, or we will examine it, or we will organize measurements, but who is, who are they, who are going to do measurements if nothing is wrong? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14792	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14793	Minister, here I am asking you to carry out independent measurements for these reasons that you yourself have stated because there is indeed a deep mistrust that does not surprise me. It's not directed at you. Unfortunately, there are experiences with the entire selection procedure of location, the re-use of agricultural land in construction and we know that in Istria a hectare of agricultural land costs between 150 and 360 thousand kuna, so the question is how the municipalities and counties spent the re-use of that land and sold to a foreign company for half a fening a hectare of that land. I therefore agree with you that there has certainly been a gap on various sides but I think that trust in the institutions of the rule of law would be restored that your Ministry can play a key role in order to carry out independent measurements and to coordinate all inspection services on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14794	... It is Mr. Krešimir Cosic's turn. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14795	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to address the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. Energy policy has always strongly shaped the foreign policy of many countries whether access to strategically important energy corridors and directions should have been ensured through this policy, whether different political influences and pressures on other countries' national economies were needed through energy and energy. By jeopardising the global supply of global energy corridors as well as energy infrastructure, the world economy is being threatened, global recession, inflation and so on. All this has a strong impact on the Croatian economy and on slower economic growth. Can you, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, say more in line with these facts about the role and place of your ministry in the overall energy foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia in particular in the context of the recent discussions on the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14796	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor, Mr. MP. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a Resort Ministry is coordinating at this time the creation of an extremely important document, a document called the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2020 with, as we like to say, a view to 2030. The job is entrusted to a consortium of energy-led institutions that are Econerk but in this consortium there are still some members such as the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, then the Economic Institute, the Faculty of Oil, Mining and Geotechnology and several external institutions. The methodology for the production of an energy strategy is such that it foresees in the first phase the adoption of a "green book" which will be the basis for a public debate that we would soon launch in Croatia, thus giving both the opportunity to parliamentarians and all those who are dealing with energy and the general Croatian public to make their contribution to the creation of this, once again I will say, one of the most important documents that we are preparing at this time in the Ministry. So energy strategy. What is extremely interesting to the public, and probably to all of us sitting here today, is the fact that we must, of course, provide three of the most important objectives: continuity and security in the supply of energy, competitiveness and long-term sustainability of the Croatian energy system and consequently increased competitiveness of the Croatian economy. In order to be able to do so, we must strive to have only enough in the production primarily of electricity and then to ensure new supply routes and continuity and security of gas and oil supply. So I just want to emphasize a few numbers in particular and apostrophe. Taking into account future needs by 2020, for example, in the production and consumption of electricity and today's installed capacity, then I must say that the capacity of 4 thousand megawatts is installed, and that we will have to build new capacities in a less than 12 years of installed power greater than 3 and a half thousand megawatts. So almost double today's installed power generation capacity. When we talk about gas, it's safe to have our specifics. We spend a lot more gas in the winter months than in the summer months, and therefore we will secure our new supply routes on one side. First of all, it connects to the Hungarian pipeline system, on the other hand to build new underground gas storage facilities and try to build a new pipeline on the Adriatic-Jonska route, which would ensure that gas supply from the Caspian swimming pool would be possible, above all, from Azerbaijan. When we talk about oil, several of the most important key elements of the energy strategy. First of all, the completion of the modernisation of the refineries in Croatia, the construction of PEOP, the "Pan European Oil Pay Plan", which includes several European Union countries with the aim of bringing oil, raw oil from the Caspian basin, from the port of Constanta, Romania to Genova, where the port would be crossed for possible exports and oil ships further into the world. Of course, one of the reduction stations would also be in Omislj, Croatia. These are the most important projects in the energy system. What the public will certainly be interested in how much it costs and how much it's worth, believe me, ours, I'll say that conservative estimates show the necessity to invest in the energy sector of EUR 10 billion in a minimum over the next 12 years of which 4 and a half billions in the electricity system [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14798	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14799	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your comprehensive response. I would say and add perhaps only the following: the importance of energy strategy and energy security illustrates and the fact that both NATO and the European Union pay particular attention to the problem. The fact is that statements by the presidents of the NATO member states in Bucharest and Riga confirm that energy security is one of their priorities and also some key and important negotiating chapters with the European Commission relate precisely to energy and energy security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14800	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14801	Mr. President of the Parliament, I will ask Mr. Vukelic's defence minister. Mr. Minister, the estimated number of people is after being violently expelled from their apartments in some circumstances, they have entered court protection proceedings for their right to an apartment. While the proceedings lasted at the Ministry of Defense they said if you get a positive verdict we'll sell you an apartment. Some people, a few of them, I'll mention here only the last name Vukadinovic got a positive verdict, but after that your service said we can't make a deal with you, you can sue us, so let the court decide afterwards. My question is, why doesn't the Department of Defense respect a judicial verdict in this matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14802	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. It is true that the Ministry of Defence was based on the authority of the Republic of Croatia and, through the legal representative, carried out the procedures for the lay-off of household rights to those who did not use the apartment for more than 6 months for unwarranted reasons, so they had no legitimate reasons. True, all those who lost and who were denied housing rights could have been brought to trial for the return of household law. When this trial is completed and if they have succeeded, then they gain such a verdict by obtaining the right to buy that apartment in accordance with the Law on the Buying of dwellings on which there is a household right. So, they have to meet all that legal procedure and all those conditions in order to gain the possibility of buying out housing rights. And based on such, therefore, such compliance with all these legal requirements, the number of dwellings on which there is a household right can be bought out. If there is also someone in that apartment who has a contract, then the apartment has been sold to someone then it is necessary to initiate the process of breaking up that purchase contract. If the trial ends in favour of the one who has been sued, so to whom the household law has been returned, then the Ministry of Defence is acting according to a verdict. Therefore, it is difficult, I have now said the principles and procedures prescribed by law. If there is a specific case, then I ask you to give the information in writing and that I can specifically answer you about a particular case, a man who is therefore in a position to be entitled under the Law on the Buying of dwellings on which there is a household law and in that case is treated in accordance with that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14803	Thank you. Mr. Representative of the Gaits. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14804	Mr. Minister, what you just said is different from what Mr. Vukadinovic was told. Since that man and such men deserve help, I would ask you for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14805	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14806	Your Honor, Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. I'm going to ask you a question, and I'm sure you'll have an understanding for it, and we'll understand each other. In fact, it's about parliamentary and ministerial pensions, one topic that's been very disturbing to our public, which was also the topic of an election campaign where it was prejudged to be about ordinary populism, about stealing ideas, although it's not about the idea, it's about attitude, so let me remind you. Therefore, the system of privileged, representative and ministerial pensions in force in the Republic of Croatia is the most privileged system in Europe. He was changed and corrected in 2000 by the previous government, a coalition government run by Ivica Racan. However, it has been shown that such a system continues to be a dominant injustice towards most of the Croatian population. It's not a pay problem, it's not a problem for other things that are part of the job. The problem is the separation in that fundamental fate shared by the average Croatian citizens. When I say average, I say it for statistical reasons, not for human reasons, and MPs who have high wages. What's my motive for this question? First, your months of silence, silence after being promised and said to study comparative models, to find a solution. It's a 15-minute job, a system like Croatian in Europe doesn't have one. There are various nuanced systems, from Slovenia, which fully equalises MPs and ministers with all other citizens to German and some Scandinavians who know the right to a certain type of supplement. A few days ago, so to return to the motive of your closest associate and president of this House Mr. Luka Bebić spoke on the Croatian Radio “From Mark’s Square” about this topic, so he said that some who have 40 years of life would not talk about pension problems in such a way as to have 60 years of life. I was amazed by that. I haven't heard that before as the attitude of this government, but I've heard promises. I heard something was going to happen. We have heard that something is going to be done, that in this matter we will equalize ourselves with what is a good European practice. I'm done. My question is: Is there anything you intend to do and when?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14807	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14808	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Representative, you've touched one topic that's legitimate and good to talk about, but I don't think you've touched all the important aspects of the subject in your question. You have touched one possible, one possible to which at the moment I find grudges because it is not good, and this practice we know from the past before the independent Croatia is not a good application of the principle of equalisation. We know where this principle of a retrieval has led us. You have set the example of Slovenia and the example of Germany and I will give these two examples. So, when you concluded your question you said in line with good European practice it would be good for us to either do so or when the government will launch that initiative and bring it in within 15 minutes. If you mentioned two conflicting examples, one where it goes in favor of your question, the other that goes in the opposite, because in Germany there are additions as you know you and I and others in a number of other countries, then let's ask ourselves here I'll put it in one broader context not appropriate directly whether or not we will, I am in favour of considering it and the President of the Parliament and we have discussed it. But we are also about to put it in the context of whether we will respect our institutions, whether we will respect the fact that there is a Croatian Parliament and that there are elected representatives from the people who work there. Let's put aside the demagogue whether parliamentary representatives and ministers are working enough and whether, if that pension can be smaller, if it can be bigger, if it can fit the current state of the economy so that we can find some coefficient that might always change accordingly. But if we don't respect our institutions, then we don't respect us or our own country. The state exists because it has the President of the State who is elected by the free will of citizens, which has the Croatian Parliament as the highest home, which has the Croatian Government, which has mayors and mayors, the parliamentary representatives, which has the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority, and unless we respect those institutions, but we all have to have the same, then it's a return to socialism, a return to the Uralwolf, and I'm against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14809	Mr. Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14810	Your Honor, Prime Minister, I am not pleased with your response. This is the replacement of the thesis or the transition to another generation in logic. Therefore, the Croatian example is unique in the fact that after 2 years, certain large rights are acquired. There is no such thing, neither in Slovenia nor in Germany. Nowhere. So your example is not good. I'm not happy and because you talked about it, that's what you promised. You haven't done anything, and obviously you're not going to do anything, and I have to tell you right now, I don't understand why. Yesterday, you used a nice Latin saying, "Nihil new sub solo." There's another Nihil new, nothing new. "Nil new you're not a communal consensual." Nothing without a deal, or anything without a mutual agreement, or anything without ourselves that we decide about ourselves. It's from 1505 from the Polish Fair when the feudal scum decided on its feudal privileges and it's today at the Polish Fair, "Nichil New". So it shouldn't be like that. It shouldn't be like that. But we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14811	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14812	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Milinovic, and ask what the Ministry of Health and Social Care has done about expensive medicines. In fact, we are faced with the fact that a circle of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia suffers from severe diseases whose outcome of treatment depends, in fact, on the use of these expensive medicines, and they themselves as members of their families are in a very difficult socio-economic state, and for these reasons they cannot afford to buy such expensive medicines. So I'd be grateful to you, Mr. Minister, if you'll inform us what the ministry has done in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14813	Thank you. Minister Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14814	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, one of the first outstanding first issues to be raised before this government is the procurement of particularly expensive medicines before this ministry. Well, I'll be happy to say, we said that during our term of office, so over 4 years we will solve the problem of particularly expensive medicines and I hope you will share my satisfaction and satisfaction with the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we have solved this in the first 6 and 8 months of this government, respectively. I really thank all those who have sensitized the Croatian public on this matter, especially the media, but not those who shed false tears over heavy fates and individual and family, and I will remind you that before the summer it was, and what the Ministry and Government did. Before the summer, it was truly even a procedure, up to three months for the purchase of a particularly expensive medicine. I said then that the Croatian State would take full responsibility for the purchase of these medicines, that we would reduce this procedure because it is unacceptable for him to have a life depends on a particularly expensive medicine, or life or extended life, quality of life, it is unacceptable for him to wait for that medicine for 3 months. We've done everything in this matter and I've told HZZO's director very clearly, if the procurement procedure, the administration of a particularly expensive drug lasts for more than 2 weeks, Mr. Bergman can't sit in his chair, in his chair. That this is so, that we did show the last case that sensitized the Croatian public case of little Zadranka Ivo Prenje, young Zadranka Ivo Prenje. I'm sorry to mention that name, but everyone knows that case. You know how long the procedure lasted after I gave the instructions and after we changed the way we approved the especially expensive medicine. Believe it or not, one day is our only success together. I'm looking forward to it. We are available, therefore, and the procedure should not last longer than 4 weeks from the moment the request comes to HZZO, or from the moment the waist says that, this medicine is needed. What we're announcing and I've already said, we've increased the supply of particularly expensive drugs by 100%. They will be in the next budget, this item will be 400 million kuna, but we will call a public tender, Croatia will fully take care of the purchase of particularly expensive medicines so as not to collect the margin on these 400 million kunas. The margin on these 400 million kunas, those who earn it is about 40 million kunas, the Croatian state is giving up and the margins will further invest in the purchase of particularly expensive medicines. Today in Croatia, I say, responsiblely as a minister, one who needs a cure should not spend more than 2 weeks, 2 to 3 weeks to get this medicine from the moment the request arrives at HZZO. We've cleared the hospitals, they're no longer paying for blood and blood preparations. This is about 80 million kuna per year, and in this way we will contribute even more so that hospitals can also obtain particularly expensive medicines. Of course, by increasing the hospital limit, here's the first time I can mention it here, followed by a meeting with the principals. For six months, we have had a negative trend, or reduction of debts in the hospital system. It was never in Croatia. Six months in a row has been a negative trend, i.e. a decrease in debt in the health system. .../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14815	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14816	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Of course, I am extremely pleased with your answer and thank you very much for putting this problem so high on the list of priorities to be addressed in the jurisdiction of your ministry. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14817	Thank you. Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14818	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec, the world market oil was $150 a barrel a few months ago. Today she came to $92 for a barrel, and then you justified the increase in oil products, the price of gasoline, by this very criterion, which is the rise in the cost of oil on the world market. Today when you need a price to go lower, it only goes for a few lips down. So I'm interested in whether there's actually a fact that it suits the state, the state's cash register is filled with VAT on expensive fuel. What's my question, and that's whether you as Deputy Prime Minister or Government will do something to protect our citizens' standards, apply the same criteria you've talked about so many times, and that at last the price of fuel will be not in June, but in a way that when it falls, it falls in kunas, and when it grows, you know that you've well justified that exact same thing. I ask you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14819	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14820	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, MP, I thank you for asking. The price of oil and petroleum products in the Republic of Croatia is defined before only two sizes: the price of oil and oil derivatives on the so-called ". the Mediterranean market and the ratio of the exchange rate to the dollar. These are the two most significant, most important variables affecting the maximum price of oil and diesel fuel or petrol fuels in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Economy shall adopt a Regulation establishing the maximum price of diesel or petrol. Based on this rule, I must say that even at times when the prices of crude oil were at record heights, so at record heights, in Croatia we did not have the price of diesel and petrol fuels at the level permitted by the regulation. That's exactly why we don't have any drastic reductions today like the price of crude oil has dropped. However, it is a process in which two partners are involved to negotiate and discuss first and foremost between the resolution ministry and the INA. And what I have to say, we're gonna keep doing pressure on reducing those prices and they're gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14821	Thank you. Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14822	I can't normally be satisfied with your answer. Namely, I respect the variables at the time you use them when it suits you. I would also ask you to apply them urgently in the same way, the same mathematics for our citizens, and that means the same influence should have this 38% drop in prices on the world market, let it reflect on our citizens. I am unfortunately a witness and on the spot that very often we play what is agreed or agreed on, so as I could see in Sinj by the workers, the worker "Dalmatinka", I believe you will also do this. I ask you nicely to do exactly on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia this effort is not actually waiting for the slowness that we can clearly see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14823	Thank you. It's Mrs. Carmela Caparin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14824	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Namely, Mr. Minister, you know that the fast road Vrbovec-Bjelovar-Virovica in the transport strategy of the Republic of Croatia is taking over the first group of priorities. The last one was built fast road Vrbovec-Gradac in 15.5 km. In less than two years, about 300 million kunas were invested. From there, the road stretches towards Koprivnica on one side about 42 km long and on the other side towards Bjelovar in the length of about 27.5 km and is called Bilogorje-Podravski ipslon. I ask you, can you tell us whether the project documentation has been collected at the level of ideas and main projects, geodetic and geotechnical research, building permit and when the construction of the Bilogorje-Podravska ipsilon will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14825	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14826	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Representative, ladies and gentlemen. So, as you said yourself, it's about one thing I would say is the key traffic direction of central Croatia, a direction that passes through three and finally through four counties and a road or road that will be used in the first stage by about 500 thousand people, and finally by a million people. So it's a very important traffic route, one of the fast four-way roads whose construction, as you said, began, and we started last year 15 km and we put the first shares on the market. From Vrbovac, therefore, this road is heading one way towards Bjelovar, i.e. at the end of Virovitica and in the other direction towards Križevci and Koprivnica. What we're working on right now is making project documentation, so very intensely. I can safely say that somewhere in the first quarter of next year, so in 2009 and start building further this Bilogorje-Podravska ipilon in both directions. Thus, from Vrbovac to Bjelovar or Virovitica in one direction and in another direction from Vrbovac towards Križevci and Koprivnica. Some estimate is that it would take about three years for that ipislon to finish. Here, I think it's good data, that it's good news because it's really this traffic route because of everything I said before it absolutely deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14827	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14828	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We are extremely pleased that this road will continue to be built at the beginning of next year, because it is indeed a vessel of housewives, road of life for both the Bjelovar region and for Podravina, and it will certainly speed up the development of economic zones and social development, as well as demographic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14829	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14830	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is to the Prime Minister, Dr. Evey Sanader. This issue was initiated by citizens of some places, cities and municipalities of Croatia with whom I was in direct communication. I will only mention Slavonski Kobaš, Vojnic, Cetingrad, Donji Lapac. In the same way, citizens of neighbouring Bosnian-Herzegovina municipalities have in some way agreed with these initiatives. It is about re-activated small-time crossings that were once a link between the citizens of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we know because of what events are simply put out of use at one historic moment. My question to Mr. Prime Minister, can we expect some of these small-time crossings to be put into office, especially today, citizens of Slavonski Kobaš, who have numerous vineyards on the Bosnian side, to travel 40, 50km to these vineyards as for example. and the residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina to mention only Tržačka Rastel, they simply have to travel for a long time to reach their properties in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14831	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14832	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, since you have also referred the question, I knew what you were going to ask, so we have prepared the correct answer, and before that I will say that there is an agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was signed in 2003, and in 2005 it took effect on border traffic. He regulates exactly what you're talking about. According to this agreement there is, here I've written down exactly, 23 permanent border crossings and two seasonal crossings. I agree to launch a joint initiative for both Slavonski Kobaš and other places, but I repeat, we cannot unilaterally change the agreement that we have agreed and signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the implementation of the agreement on our part is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, so I suggest that our ministry be instructed but after one discussion to see what other places would be where these border crossings would be, to direct an initiative to amend the agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and to supplement that agreement with several more places.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14833	Thank you. Mr. Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14834	Thank you very much. So instead of any indication of whether I'm satisfied or not, I'd like to, I'd really like to agree with the Bosnian Herzegovic side, because it's personally difficult for me to go to Tržačka Rastel and see that that bridge that they found themselves on after "The Storm" two winning armies, two generals, that this small border crossing today is a dead letter, let's activate it together and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14835	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14836	I ask the question of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. In the past year, sunflower oil has accumulated 38%, salt 12%, bread half white 30%, fresh milk one liter 13%, pork over 30%, pasta – spaghetti 60%, flour white 30%, margarine 17%. Since the HDZ came back to power in Croatia, it has collected everything but air. For pensioners inflation is not 7% or 8%; for pensioners inflation is above 20%. In the same period, their pensions increased by only 4%. Retired people have worked fairly for their entire working life so that they can live with dignity from their well - deserved pension. Today, unfortunately, most pensioners pick up on their wallets to make an important decision can afford and buy these today, which must be denied from basic provisions of life. I've been stopped by pensioners and asked how to survive our average pension, I don't know how to answer that. So on their behalf, I ask you, Deputy Prime Minister, how can a pensioner with an average pension in the Republic of Croatia survive?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14837	Thank you. Madam Vice President, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14838	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, you have really asked a lot of questions, I was kind of surprised during your question and listing of course everything that happened that you did not mention here and the collapse of "Mary Lynch" or "Leman Brothers" and brought it down to the back of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, led by the Croatian Democratic Community. I'm going to answer you, so the questions, or the data you've listed, are of course very serious and I'm going to say very simply. It would have been a much worse situation if it hadn't been for this government led by the Prime Minister Dr. Sanader, because as you know, a series of measures have managed to prevent price increases here are some basic provisions of life until summer, as you know, through the work and commission led by the Prime Minister himself, as well as the price of gas as you know by the end of this year. But one thing you didn't say, you said a lot, but you didn't say that all this was happening in the coverage of world movements, movements in world markets, that Croatia is not an island and that Croatia is not isolated. The government has made a number of concrete measures, including, as you know in the talks, in agreements with the social partners and price reductions that happened recently. And as for the pensioners, I assure you there is no one who knows the opportunities amongst the pensioners better than this government, because this government is in the past council, so also the government of Dr. Sanader was the first to recognize his debt to the pensioners, and that debt began to return. Find a model, find extremely large means to repay debt both in one and another model and solve problems and issues so-called. New pensioners. Here through my ministry we also launched an important project that you didn't mention, and we launched it in Koprivnica that you know well about, which is so-called. Living room and helping out in the house means helping those pensioners, the older people who are the most vulnerable. So systematic care of older people. Of course we are still dealing with the problem of pensions, that we want as you want them to be bigger, but as far as the problem of price growth is concerned, of course the government is still taking extremely important steps. Therefore, I ask that when you talk about the problems you face, you speak responsibly as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. And as for the gatherings as you said everything, and I could also mention the gatherings at the time of the Government of Ivica Racan's mandate, so let's say the electricity collection, so when we asked what the government would do and how it would do then, the vice president of the government, among other things, told the women in Croatia to iron, to iron late in the night, because then the electricity was cheaper. So much for social sensitivity. So the message here as Deputy Prime Minister, be calm, the government continues to monitor events and, of course, assumes everything in its power, and as you know of some things like movements in world markets, this government cannot influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14839	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mršić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14840	I have to say I'm completely dissatisfied with the answer, because I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked a very simple question to tell me what people ask me, and that is how with the average retirement pension the pensioner in Croatia survives. I hope you believe that the destruction of Mary Linc has nothing to do with the price of flour produced from Croatian wheat and that fact has no effect whatsoever. And you obviously need pensioners only in pre-election time, after which you need the hands of their representatives. So I'm going to ask you to answer a very simple question in writing. How does Croatia survive with 2,000 kuna average pensions?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14841	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14842	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Bozidar Pankretić. I come from the Neretva valley, these days the paper says everything about the Mandarins, the price of 2 kunas and 40 limes is agreed, when we know that the wheat cca was bought with all the incentives somewhere around 2 kunas, when we know that the protection price of apples is 2 kunas and 80 limes, and the apple can also be grown in the most extreme cases under the most extreme climate conditions, even in Siberia. The only culture in the Republic of Croatia agriculture, whether fruit growing, whether or not vegetable, where the promotion is not given by agricultural producers, but by buyers headed by a large monopoly "Konzum" and at the price of workers who pick on these plantations, on old plantations, one worker can collect 200 kilos to 250 kilos a day, and his diary is 200 kuna and if you find it. We insist in the Neretva Valley, last night we had a meeting of the Association of Mandarin Producers where there were over a thousand people that price, the purchase price of Mandarin must be 3 kunas and that the incentive of 50 limes as well as in agricultural producers in the rest of Croatia and other cultures, what you have said many times so far, every farmer has a hectare that has the right to encourage, which has one cow or one bull has the right to encourage. I believe that every farmer in the Neretva Valley has the right to encourage. If one meeting does not occur, a serious meeting will be called to serious agriculture by the goods producers from the Neretva valley, not the servants of the "Conzum", because one who was at the interview was a servant of the "Conzum" who did not open the words, we will take very unpopular measures as our colleagues in Slavonia take, one to protect their interests, because I have to tell you one thing, in the price of fertilisers which, which is, which is not to say how much it has accumulated, the price of oil, the price of repromation with the contribution of the Mandarin, you can ask the President of the Croatian Parliament how long it is to wait for a later variety of Mandarins, Clementin or oranges, seven, eight years, the price of 2 kuna 40 June...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14843	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14844	Price minimum, minimum rentability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14845	Thank you. Mr. Bozidar Pankretic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14846	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I will at first say that in any case we respect our Mandarin producers as much as possible, and I think you know it well, and that no meeting that we have organised so far under the Professional Council for the Monitoring of the situation in the production and processing of fruit and, if requested, will be accepted. But I would like to say that perhaps we should remind ourselves that the situation in this segment was several years ago, until the government introduced support and until it organised this market. We have to say that unfortunately one large amount of mandarin in an unorganized market ended up in gray, I would say, and it's mostly falling apart. You need to know that over 40 million kunas have been invested in support over the last four years, of course in support of redeemers for the organization of ransom and storage. It's the only possibility you know well that we can subsidize and help in that part. It is we who organise these meetings, and at these meetings we have clearly given the opportunity for the producers of the Mandarin to agree with the buyers. Clearly, we cannot order anyone in this work, but only in that work can we give and support. I fully understand you about the price, but you have to deal with whoever wants to buy the Mandarins, and these are the buyers. We will this year and predict because of the crop that is almost 50,000 tonnes, help almost give 20 million kuna support, which will be almost 50% of the amount so far. I must stress here that almost one large part is due to this organization that we created on the Mandarin market going into export and last year it was exported to the Mandarin for almost 80 million kunas that we believe will happen this year. So, we're open to talking, we'll call you back. You know that the first talks defined this minimum price of two and twenty, you agreed two and forty. In any case, we will continue to talk and we will help in that part as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14847	Thank you. Representative Stipe Gabric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14848	Thank you. Ministers are correct that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture will give 20 million kuna. It's going to give out of 20 one 70% of the "Conzum" monopoly in Neretva. And I'm going to end up in Neretva there are 8 redeemers, of which the 7 smaller ones agree with the price of 3 kuna, but they're afraid of the great Konzum, the great boss is afraid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14849	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14850	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Gas filling and supply is one of the strategic specifics and Croatian priorities. So, not just for Slavonia and Baranja. When we talk about Slavonia and Baranja and Osijek-Baranja County where I come from, gasification will be completed in Osijek-Baranja County and now planned with dynamics. 2010 in Baranja, i.e. 2015 in the entire area of Osijek-Baranja County. Of course, Baranja but also that eastern part of Osijek is an area of special state concern. Therefore, it should certainly be the particular interest of every state government independent of the Croatian state, regardless of which party is in power. My question was addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec, and concerns a municipality signed by the concession agreement in 2004 under the Law on the Communist Economy. It's the Erdut municipality, the municipality of which is made up of Aljmash, Dalje and White Hill. In the municipality that built the company with which the concession was signed, it built a complete gas network, so for 8,000 and 500 inhabitants, more than 3,000 households. A useful authorisation was obtained after the technical examination was carried out on 15 May 2007. The inhabitants of Erdut municipality paid for the connections. Everything's ready to release. However, the company that carried out the work went bankrupt, bankruptcy is conducted in a commercial court, services are launched and certainly and Mrs Lovrin knows very well, this process will not end much longer. My question is what are you going to do to make the residents of Erdut municipality get gas, I think it can be done very quickly within a few days, but it takes your commitment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14851	Thank you very much. Vice President Polancec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14852	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Parliamentarian, I thank you for asking, I must say that I know this presentation and you have explained it quite well and described it, there is only one detail missing in this description, and that is that in the Erdut municipality area, therefore, a local network is built and there is no masteral water, gas water and so long as there is no master's built pipeline water, of course this local network can't be released into operation. The second problem, of course, is that the company Emanite herself was doing the work and she got the job in a public competition and the concession for the construction of that local network went bankrupt. But if we don't burden this whole meeting we're taking care of it, I'm in touch with my associates, and I'm gonna call the bankruptcy manager, I'm gonna invite local self-government representatives to talk and, of course, Plinacro to see what we can do as soon as possible to build that highway line. And another data that is also very important, the figures you mention are accurate, about the number of households unfortunately only 250 households have signed contracts and this should also be kept in mind. In any case, however, the coming of the master’s water will surely change the situation and will be much more ready for the connections and we must find a solution. The solution is therefore in the construction of the master’s water because the local network was built without the construction plans of the master’s waterways.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14853	Thank you. Mr. Representative Šišljagic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14854	Only one correction of 1570 households, i.e. a contract exists. But here I am satisfied with the answer but I would ask the Vice-President of the Government to really speed up this situation for Erdut municipality, to take over the network and that these residents of Erdut municipality, at least 8500 get gas for this winter. Because if this continues safely for the next year, two or even three Erdut gas municipalities won't have any. So, I expect you to call on the representatives and address this problem in the common interest, the interest of the inhabitants of Erdut municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14855	Thank you. It's Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14856	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, members of the government, for my question to Minister Pankretić. Mr. Ministers are often asked by our cattlemen about the amount of veterinary checks fees burdening their budget. What has been done so far to reduce your costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14857	Thank you. Mr Bozidar Pankretic, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14858	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. So I have to say that in this part we've done a lot and I'm going to say that with the 1st of September 2008 he will step in, he entered into force the Regulation on veterinary checks on live animals in the internal... and health certificates and the place of origin of the animal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me explain what this is about. In any case, we had a lot of conversations with our cattlemen and definitely the burden they had, in the case of loading, in the case of unloading, the burden they had in a certain way for the issuing of the testimonies and the examination of the animals was too much for them. I'll say that's where it's at. It's about the load, so our cattlemen from cca. We have defined that this part of the cost will be taken over by the state in a way that we will abolish this part of the review, and thus our cattlemen will now be able to mark by introducing this part that we control through the cardboard that each animal has and their legitimacy, so we can define this part and we do not need to have any loading or unloading related to that part, but we will introduce that once a year review of the economy that has a registered farm. In Croatia we have almost registered 40,000 farms by now. It will be an obligation that the veterinary station that received the concession to review the holding, determines the actual situation, advises our cattleman, and that part of the cost is taken over by us. In a certain way, we're going to finance the veterinary cells to do it for the state, but we've freed our cattlemen in that way that they don't have these extra costs that I believe they'll allow us to have and I'd say a little less pressure and at the meat price in that final. So I believe that we will also contribute to the stabilisation of meat prices on the market. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14859	Thank you. Mr. Box, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14860	I thank you, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14861	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14862	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Vukelic. Mr. Minister, since I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is known not only for its natural beauty but also for its industry, what does the Ministry of Defence do in terms of strengthening the military industry in Croatia and potentially more significant sending domestic producers to certain projects of the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14863	Thank you. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14864	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, it's logical that you ask questions exactly when you come from a county that's very much about industry has something to say both in the past and in the present and in the future. I just want to remind all of you that strengthening the industry as a whole in Croatia is a fundamental goal and one of the strategic goals and government in the past term and this government. This makes it clear to the military industry as a single segment of industry as a whole. And what I want to say is that it is based on the processes that take place in the Ministry of Defence and that we are thus strengthening the industry that is leaned or directed towards one part of the Ministry of Defence, were created through the guidance that was adopted on the "offset" in 2004 where we have been directed not only by our industry, our products that we have directed and more involved in the processes that take place in modernising and equipping the armed forces than that goods, that equipment that Croatia does not have through the "offset" programs to bring our companies to technology and to actually strengthen our industry because this is particularly important for Croatia. And it's been done a lot. I will mention only one of the biggest and most important projects, which is also very high, billions and 350 million kunas for the purchase of combat armored vehicles that go through the tender, received the job of a Finnish company, a Finnish company, but through transfer and technology, the job will take place in Croatia, in Djura Djakovic. We also want to encourage similar models when it comes to the maritime electronic centre in Split and telecommunications, by connecting with foreign companies, transfer of technology and training of the Croatian industry to engage in all these processes that will take place in the coming years when it comes to the equipment and modernisation of the armed forces. This is especially important to us, and therefore this project, and this job is one of the top priorities in the Ministry of Defence because it is not only strengthening our industry, not only to increase capacity and create jobs but also to strengthen our export industry. I would like to say that the Croatian military industry has been exporting billions and 250 million kuna over the past 6 years, 400 million kuna in the past 2007. The potential of our industry, the military industry, exports are far greater. And it is through these processes that we will have in the coming years, the equipment and modernisation of the armed forces, where it stands in the next 5.6 years and several, 5.6 billion kunas we want to train Croatian companies to not only produce goods and services for the Croatian military but to export to new markets. And our goal is to double this exports over the next 4.5 years, so that exports will not be in 4 years, some billions of kuna, but two billion kuna. We have potential. We are also preparing a study that will give us answers on the capabilities and capabilities of the military industry in Croatia and the possibilities for a clear market in this region and in the world, export opportunities. So the strategic goal in which I am convinced in realisation will be to find both your county and company companies in your county.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14865	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14866	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer. I hope our businessmen find interests in the area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14867	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14868	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government, my question goes to Vice President Polancec. On July 25th of this year, a serious 5-page weekly published an article that presented shocking data that directly incriminate the customs administration and the Ministry of Finance for damage to the state budget estimated at several billion kunas. At that time, an analysis of the consumption of oil derivatives and the collection of a specific excise tax on petroleum products has identified a whole series of irregularities and indifferences of which I will mention three of the most recent ones here. In the period from 2002 to 2007, the Ministry of Economy recorded two billion and 736 million litres of increased oil consumption in the Republic of Croatia from the Ministry of Finance or Customs Administration, which is otherwise responsible for controlling excise duties on oil derivatives. In the same period, the Ministry of Economy noted that more than 356 million litres of gasoline were exported from the Republic of Croatia, so more than was recorded by the Ministry of Finance or Customs Administration. Furthermore, the level of excise duties charged on oil derivatives from 2002 to 2007 according to official data from the Ministry of Finance and these data are otherwise an integral part of each annual state budget increased in 6 years from 3 billion 330 million kuna to 3 billion 413 million kuna or only by 83 million or 2 and a half posts. Note bene in the first Six months this year, in the first six months of this year, it's down 2%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] If we know the number of tourists has increased by 35%, everyone is motorized. Number of personal cars by 25%. Where's the difference and... Where'd the excise go? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I'm a friend of mine.]] I'm asking you what you've done as Deputy Prime Minister and you're thinking of getting rid of these doubts that directly incriminate your closest associates and I have written proof that the government has already been informed of this case several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14869	Thank you. Vice President Mr. Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14870	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, Mr. Parliamentarian, that I have read this article in this, in these media, but some other media have also dealt with this topic and I must say that they had completely different numbers. This is just saying that we should not slave for what is published in the media but that the official data of one institution or another is therefore the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy. We've checked our data thoroughly and coordinated it, and you can get it, and I'll be happy to send it to you so you can see the full analysis. Otherwise, there are a number of gaps in this article. One of the failures is, for example, that the author of the article speaks of, for example, unpaid excise duties on a vine of oil. They don't pay excise fees. It is one of the mistakes, one of the confusions mentioned in that article. So if I don't elaborate and there's no need to discuss this article, I'll be happy to provide you with a full analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14871	Thank you. Mr. Richembergh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14872	Because I have official data and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, I am very interested in what you are about to deliver and what it will differ in, but thank you in advance for your written reply because it will be more than interesting. And when it comes to vine oil, it's not just a matter of excise duty, it's a value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14873	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14874	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the government with the Prime Minister at the helm. My question is to Mr. Damir Byce, Minister of Tourism. Media regularly report the results of the tourist season as every year. It is reported in different ways that the road on the number of guests, which road on the number of overnight stays, which road on revenues, which road on crossing the border etc. However, it is indisputable that the general impression that the Croatian potential is much greater than what is being realized, that the spatial assumptions of everything that God has given us and that rich history has left us to inherit have not been adequately used or used enough, that many objects are still out of function, and sometimes they have been in function, that many of the objects that could be given a tourist purpose by re-use from former others who have no longer function could increase their capacities. I would simplify my question to the most basic, important data, which is whether our tourism this year is the ninth month when the results are already collected in some way, whether this year's tourism has filled our register, less and as you expect by the end of the year, to finally get the right data from the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14875	Thank you. Mr. Byce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14876	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, dear Parliamentarian. So you've asked one question that's actually going for us to give an evaluation of the current season. I'm going to point out that the season isn't over yet, that the government and the ministry are working just to keep the season and extend and, of course, fill out as you said to the state register. However, we can now make it quite clear what the season is like. The season is I would underline something beyond our expectations. Namely, the figures that say the figures are clear. For the first 8 months, we have 8.7 million tourists or almost 3% more than last year. They only made a little less than 50 million overnights or 4% more than last year. Of course, these figures confirm other figures, numbers that are naturally compatible with that. I will also say that airports record an increase of 19% of passengers with 2.3 million. To say, of course, that Croatian highways are growing by 10% of car crossings, and of course Jadrolini has also increased the number of passengers and vehicles. What I would point out is, of course, that we are not only going to increase the number, I would say the number of passengers, arrivals, tourists and I would say overnights, but the total income, and there is then the principle question of where they are actually coming from. Did Croatian tourism make a good step? What I would point out is simple. This year, tourists come to 122 hotels with 4 stars. 67 more hotels than last year, 120 percent. So, we've raised those standards. We also have 16 5 star hotels this year, 6 more than 2007. So, this one new leap in Croatian tourism is seen clearly in the data that speaks of tourists coming here to one of the more quality accommodation facilities, but of course more expensive. As far as the cashier's concerned, of course we'll see more. Namely, we haven't gotten the total data yet. However, I will say that in the first six months we have 6.4% more income recorded in tourism, at least in catering, hoteling according to the data of virtually the companies themselves dealing with their reports. And what I would also point out is the fact that we do, of course, the promotion of the tourist season abroad, but the preparation here. The preparation is actually done by the Croatian government, precisely by a government programme adopted. All ministries were assigned to prepare the season. And sometimes they ask me as a minister, actually, if these tourists are really here. I will say that, of course, when we invested more than six billion kuna this year in the preparation of the tourist season, when Jadrolini bought new and new ships, it is clear that the data shows and are accurate that the tourist has more, but waiting is less. And really I, as tourism minister, would not want tourists coming to Croatia to actually record their coming here with a memory of waiting, does not matter, for example, at the port of three or four hours. This year we have significantly reduced this and therefore this new quality is seen in fact and in faster I would say coming, better preparation and in one standard that we provide both foreign and domestic tourists. Anyway, I'll just say one thing. So, the tourist season according to all our data for this year goes well beyond our expectations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14877	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14878	I thank you for your answer. In fact, I thank you for the fact that tourism growth is at least 3% recognizable, that it may be even bigger by the end. However, I would only have one recommendation if it is possible for the tourism development strategy to be somehow more present, clearer and accessible, to show that tourism in Croatia will develop and one greater effort towards capacity training, building new capacities in the system of all ministries that are somehow responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14879	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14880	I ask my representative a question to the Prime Minister Dr. Evey Sanader. Mr. President, I have held in my hands our Agreement of 10 December 2007, so a coalition agreement in which Articles 2 and 3 of the precise commitments for this year have been laid down. I quote, Article 2 says: “The government of the Republic of Croatia will propose a legal framework for the payment of Christmas for all pensioners in 2008 from the property of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. We in HSU give this Christmas Christmas payoff for this year, given that it can also be the institute for reducing these inflationary damages that our pensioners suffer. Article 3 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose, on the basis of a proposal from HSU, HDZ and pension associations in 2008, a model and a way to address pension issues for pensioners who have acquired pensions in other former SFRY republics. So my question is very brief. When will the Government appoint expert groups or an expert group that will draft two draft laws because our time is flying and the time is coming to realize these two projects soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14881	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14882	Mr. Representative, we at HDZ and the government know very well what we agreed with the coalition partner. Since you are already our coalition partner's second term in line and we are yours, it is the best proof that our promises, or what we agree and keep, are coming true. So I will remind you so because it was, it seems to me that Mr. Mršić's representative in his question was also talking about the pensioners we did great things, of course not and enough, always more can be done. We've paid back the pensioners' debt still to certain categories of debt returns only it's not so attractive anymore, because it's become a daily one. It's this government and this assembly majority had the strength to bring. We got that back. We also had to sell some things from the government portfolio so we could get the money to pay back that debt. So after that, we solved that gap between the old and the new pensioners who were also unfair to the new ones. We've got it covered. We've settled family pensions. These are all successes in common, and I'm proud of them. I am equally proud of what the Ministry of Intergenerational Solidarity is doing for that home care for the old and powerless that the state gives for absolutely free of charge. Now, we have this problem, first of all I will mention pensions from the former Yugoslav republics, now sovereign states of some groups, not all because Vice President Polancec as resolute minister gave me this morning the information that certain groups have on average and never pensions are good nor can always be satisfied, but some that should not be considered if we go to one supplement and regulate them legally. So the ministry's mission and we've already agreed on that, and I'm calling on you to include the formation of a committee that will quickly, but make an analysis of those who are receiving pensions from the former Yugoslav republics. Because those who receive a pension of 30, 40, 50 euros have some extreme cases of a few euros, it really needs to be done to them, so 2 things. First, to enable them to have one supplement that the Croatian budget could bear, but also to ask in bilateral contacts with these countries why these pensions are so small and why Croatian citizens are thus placed as citizens of the second order, and there they earned their pensions and there they paid pension contributions. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the entire government, we keep mentioning it with these countries on every occasion. Is that Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that Serbia. Any country where these people have been paying for a pension contribution must regulate it in a better way. By then Croatia will be the most vulnerable and that is what we can conclude today will trigger this mechanism to bring, because it will be legal matter or something else and we will pay those most vulnerable supplements. As far as Christmas is concerned, you know that we paid off one Christmas card, and not last year, just so we don't cause suspicion that we're doing it from, offered the fact that the elections were at the end of November, but we did it in 2006, and that's why right now I'm going to say that we're going to see at the Ministry of Finance that we're standing with the money because it wasn't planned for this year in accordance with the budget, so we're going to see how we're going to solve it and if we can solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14883	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14884	Mr. President, I'm partly pleased with your response because I've been informed that the expert group will form after all. However, in one part, I am not satisfied because the coalition agreement says that Christmas Day will be paid out of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's property, which has nothing to do with the budget. Therefore, it is not necessary to burden yourself at this time with the budget. I'd like to, as you yourself said, that the pension system must also have a component of fairness. Of course, we must advocate justice in violating the human rights of our citizens who are receiving pensions from foreign insurance companies, so we must also install justice at Christmas Day so that we do not get what happened in 2006 for people with a relative pension, Croatia is very small, but there are 500 euros from Germany, they get the biggest Christmas certificate given the built-in social criteria. That's why we're asking this question very early because time goes by quickly, and there are serious problems here not to violate justice in social giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14885	Thank you. Otherwise, one small intervention. Both MPs and MPs and ministers do not break their rules of procedure if they are shorter than the time planned. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14886	Mr. President, question the Minister of the Interior. When the Road Safety Act was passed, the SDP warned that the law was bad. You didn't listen to us, you made it your way. And what's the score? The number of people killed on the roads is rising alarmingly. But in Croatia, however, it is not only on the roads that suffers. Guys, kids get hurt on the street. He was robbed and beaten, police react too late, and the culprits are rarely found. Minister Roncevic, you have no idea who caused the death of graduate Luke Ritz three months ago by brutal beating. In an urgent and effective investigation, both you and the prime minister swore 107 days ago to the press after the attempted murder of their colleague Dusan Miljuš. But we don't know the perpetrators or the orderlies until today. It is the same with the order of attacks on Igor Radenovic. Unfortunately, it's no wonder that's the case. For almost a year, I repeat, for a year Croatia has no head of the criminal police administration, no first police crime. It's like surgery in some hospital doesn't have a year's head of department. In the last 4 years, four chiefs of Zagreb's largest police administrations have been changed, one a year. Twice in four years, the Director of Police has been replaced, and now the media is being released and the story is that we're going to get a third. But it's not the police's fault that the results are so thin, because of the parents' fear that their virgins will return home, because of the chaos that exists in the system so important to public security. No, people say, "The fish stinks of the head." It is those who are politically managing the system, and we are preparing for the European Union. Mr. Minister, do you know of any other European Home Affairs Minister under investigation, and you are as much as I read in the media under investigation whose portfolio is such chaos and which has such miserable results as yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14887	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14888	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, before I go to this point of your question, I would like to introduce you to one fact. Minister Roncevic is not under investigation, and if someone told you that, then you are having a hard time being deceived, but this question of yours will be interpreted exclusively as a kind of political struggle, I don't know what it will bring to you. I hope so as much as in the last parliamentary elections. Here you have tried to dramaticize the situation as well as in our last meeting in this House of Commons, again I will tell you that official statistics speak about the decline of crime in the Republic of Croatia on all its elements except economic crime, which for the past 8 months compared to 8 months last year is up 28.9%. Business time does not allow me to get into the elaborate of all these items that you have listed here, but I will tell you that the Croatian police are still working and will do everything until they find the acts, perpetrators and orderers of these works, both in the case of Miljuš and in the case of Radjenović and in the case of the unfortunately deceased Luka Ritz. We are benefiting from information from every citizen, and I call on all citizens, and so are you from the SDP if you have any more precise knowledge about any of these items that you have listed to share with the Croatian police, it will help us with the investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14889	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14890	Given Mr. Minister that you said it was a short business time, and I think... You have the opportunity to take advantage of your influence and the prime minister as well, so that we can discuss the state of security in Croatia much earlier, and that is the question of your report on the 58th place of this House's agenda. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, you can't hear.]] And I believe that even after this question, the President of the Croatian Parliament will also put it something earlier, and we will have opportunities to discuss it in more detail, because it is in everyone's interest that the citizens of this Croatia feel much safer and that they are much safer for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14891	Thank you. We're going to ask two more questions and we're going to have one short break, so please be patient. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14892	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government. I'd like to ask the Minister of Culture to God's Bishop. Minister, since you have shown in the previous two mandates that you are a great friend of Međimurje, which you have shown primarily through what you are doing through your ministry and in the restoration of church facilities and in the restoration of cultural homes as specificities in Međimurje, as well as in monitoring the regular content that has emerged from that area. Unfortunately, a few months ago, it happened that the pearl, the most beautiful church, was one of the most beautiful churches in Međimurje, St. Jurju na Breg i.e. the Church of St. Jurja na Breg in the same-named municipality, the very top of Međimurje, we know it wasn't high, but it was the top of the tower was the top of Međimurje and pride in view of the position, it collapsed. In these ruins, many have tried to build political points by declaring them guilty. It's everyone else's fault just not the ones who talked about it and so round. Nothing happened for a while when you didn't take matters into your own hands. You first joined with the formation of a commission that needed to determine the causes, the situation and what had happened before. You secured funds to remove the ruins, and you proposed to the government for reconstruction, and the government has accepted a significant 5 million kunas to help. The question I'm asking is, is the Commission's finding that was formed whether the content, the causes, and when can we expect a complete and complete recovery of the damage that has taken place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14893	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14894	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. It is true and the great damage has been done by this and Croatian cultural heritage, and of course Međimurju, especially by the collapse of that tower at the Church of St. Yuri, but so far we've done everything possible. The government has given emergency funds to start rebuilding and cleaning. So far, we can't determine the reasons why the accident actually happened because it still takes another 10 days until everything that collapsed with the tower itself is completely cleaned up, and, of course, connected to the church, because it would be very dangerous to go inside. So far, we've managed to secure that triumphal arch, that part has been removed, altars and sculptures and organs have been removed, as well. Fortunately, in all that great misfortune the altar remained quite, rather preserved so that it would likely be in so much less. But we will be able to answer precisely in 10 days when experts from the Ministry of Culture, as well as the Ministry of Civil Engineering, will also come and make that assessment so that we can continue in the next procedure definitely to the end of the process. Because half the church is covered, we need to cover this second part as soon as possible. That is why the Prime Minister also approved the funds to be closed as quickly as possible to make damage to the building itself as little as possible. In 10 days, we'll have the answer that's the reason, and after that, the rescue goes full steam, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14895	Thank you. Mr. Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14896	I thank and thank you for the efforts that have been made so far in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14897	Thank you. It's the last one in this part of the session, Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14898	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to Minister Polancec, and it is related to the established but dysfunctional government's office for quality control of government regulations full of name Government's Office for Co-ordination of the Impact Assessment of Regulations. As you know, this is a largely funded office from the EU IPA funds set up 14 months ago, but the government has not been able to find a person who would be leading it as significantly as European funds. Now a new competition has recently been opened, another contest which will extend the whole process by at least a year and a half. We're absolutely clear why this office isn't operational. Because then certain acts will no longer be adopted at closed or telephone sessions, because money from the budget reserve will no longer be shared, because laws that have no health care to do with them will no longer be passed. The reason is that the office is an introduction means the start of a process in which all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can be involved in the work of the government through public consultations, means the start of the process. Instead, you'd rather be stalled by actually putting the office into office, putting European money at risk, instead of working under the public eye. My question is, is this done consciously and deliberately to avoid public surveillance or is it simply a lack of ability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14899	Thank you. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14900	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, MP. First of all, I have to say that the question you referred to me has nothing to do with the Ministry of Economy. You have noted that it is directed by the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, so what you're talking about is not in the jurisdiction of my ministry. However, I must also tell you that any regulation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes, with any such regulation, so regulation, law, any more important decision, is followed by such a regulation and a pattern of fiscal impact which should therefore be filled in by the person who proposes such a regulation, and the aim of course is to be monitored within a period of time after making such a decision, what effect will therefore have on fiscal projections and the economy in general. As far as your lobbying is concerned, it's hard for me to respond to everything you've said, but the longer you talk like this, the longer you sit in opposition, the more I encourage you to keep doing that. Given the direction we received from the President of the Parliament that it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure to be shorter in response, I will end this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14901	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14902	Well, isn't it embarrassing for a respected government minister to have this process stand for 14 months and it'll last for even longer? Isn't anyone uncomfortable? Both GONG and several other associations have already warned the government to keep that information secret. Only in the first half of this year were 17 closed sessions, and some of your decisions will not be made public because they are covered by a veil of secrets. And now for 14 months, it wasn't enough for you to set up an office that could change that, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14903	Thank you. We'll finish this part of the session. We'll continue at 12:30. The first is Mr Boris Miletic, Ivanka Roksandić, Ivan Hanžek, Dubravka Šica and so on. Thank you. We'll continue at 12:30. ... Mr. Representative Boris Miletic. [[Home is not saved.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14905	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. On several occasions, the city of Pula addressed the Government of the Republic of Croatia specifically to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Mr. Damir Polancec, concerning the privatisation of "Oliniki". We have publicly cancelled the City of Pula's interest in this topic because of the exceptional importance of "Oljinik" for the economy and the wider social community with the desire to preserve the shipyard and enable growth and development as a successful shipbuilding site and the main economic driver of the City of Pula, which with its 3,000 500 workers directly and indirectly maintains more than 10 thousand inhabitants. But "Olinik" is not only a circus, "Olinik" is all those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who live directly or indirectly next to the shipyard. The government insists on placing the thesis on the media that the shipbuilding site is being privatised by the European Commission, but that is not true, because it does not say anywhere that shipyards must be privatised, but insists on respecting European standards on subsidies and unsustainable shipyards themselves. It is obvious that the government does not know how to solve the problems of other shipyards in Croatia, and therefore pushes into the same basket a successful "Olinik" with all other shipyards. While the other shipyards lived pleasantly from recovery to recovery, through which billions of kunas were poured into them along with numerous affairs such as the one in "Brodosplit" and "Kraljevica", "Olinik" carried out restructuring and positioned on the world market as a respectable player in his branch. There are up to 15% stakes in the world market in certain parts of "Olinik". Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to take such an attitude towards the only successful large Croatian shipyard, which has not been using guaranteed guarantees for two years on top of all this. So my question to the Prime Minister is. If Italy's member of the European Union owns the "Finkantiere" shipyards from Molfacone, why would the Government of the Republic of Croatia collapse to privatise the successful Croatian shipyard "Olinik"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14906	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14907	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. The Croatian Government is not going anywhere. Secondly, the Croatian Government will, together with you, also with local units and regional units of local, regional self-government, agree how we will go in the privatisation process. You will be absolutely involved in the whole process. And third, it's not right to put yourself in the same basket as you said, and I agree with that statement, but we don't. You knock on the open door, not only do we not do it, but we praise the management of "Oliary" and "Oljinik" traffickers who work well and who are not as you said in the last two years on the list of those who receive subsidies. Therefore, all that you have said I sign, except for your conclusion, that the government has no scruples, but also that the state should not be the owner of certain economic operators, and I agree on that. So I think, as the PEZ countries do well, I see no reason why privatising would change their business. I don't believe that the same successful people who lead today and work for "The Oilman" will work less with privatisation tomorrow. That if you prove it to me I'm willing to change our position or my position, at least, so we'll all talk together what we'll end up agreeing on. But if they're doing a good job today under these conditions, who says they won't be doing a good job tomorrow? That's what I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14908	Mr. Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14909	... that local self-government will be involved I've been listening for a year, but we haven't received any concrete answer. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I just want to point out that the City of Pula and the Oilman live 150 years together. We could ask the question, did Pula build Oil and how much Oily was building Pula? I therefore expect the City of Pula to be actively involved in this process, because the "Oiler" at its core, in the center of Pula, is simply, we are being beaten by an economic operator to make it happen beyond us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14910	Thank you. It is Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14911	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government with members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will now refer my question to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, one of the major projects in the reform of high school education is the introduction of a state degree. We are witnessing what happened in May, as well as the ministry's promises to take significant steps to resolve all these problems of uninformed students' introduction of state graduation. I sincerely hope the ministry has promised that the beginning of this year will solve all the problems identified and that you will spend I would say one campaign by school that will just solve everything the students have been looking for. So I ask you to tell our public, and also to those of us who witnessed these events in May what the ministry has done so far, here's fifteen days since the start of the new school year with regard to the state's graduation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14912	Thank you. State Secretary Mr. Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14913	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. It is true that in May, our minister made several promises to the professional public and our students, of course, and parents, including you here in the Croatian Parliament. Since then, all these promised promises have been made and let me remind you of that. The first was that in the Croatian Parliament we will adopt in regular procedure the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. In this Visko home, it was also done in the half of July, the law was passed and it came into force by publication in the "National Journal" on August 2nd of this year. We did our best to print and send a brochure of this law to all our high schools, of course, and elementary schools. That was the first promise the minister made. Based on this and on the basis of Article 82 of this Law, assumptions were created to sign the State Graduation Regulation, which our minister did two days later, August 04th and that State Prosecution Regulation definitely defined everything the students asked questions about. This Regulation is of course on our Ministry's Web site, this Regulation is on the pages of the National Centre and of course "The People's Newspapers" where it is published. It was a second promise that was also made. The third is the Minister's promise that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports with the Council of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will publish one brochure and send every major in the Republic of Croatia and 35 thousand of them. This brochure is printed, sent to all our schools, and every single one of our senior jokes has this brochure on him. The brochure explains everything, there are statements from the law, there are indications of high schools, there is an explanation of the procedure from the moment, pre-application of the state's graduation until the moment of layoff until the central state, register of state graduation. And finally, answer the student's most common questions, not just from May, but also later that came to us with e-mails. And the fourth promise was that with the beginning of this school year, our team will visit all secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia, address all the seniors and present the project of state graduation, answer all their questions. That's what we started last Monday, and our teams went to a lot of schools on the ground, and this job continues, about 10 days from now, it's gonna be over. So we actually gave one very complete piece of information to all of our students, we want there to be no doubt about it, no doubt about it when they first went to the state prom. True God, it will only be for a little less than two years, but we want to do everything in time because this is one of the strongest, most important projects, not only to carry out a national graduation but also to introduce an external evaluation into our school system, which guarantees the quality of our education and better prepares students to be as effective as possible when they enroll in the study and that a much greater percentage ends that study in the shortest time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14914	Thank you. Mrs. Rocksandic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14915	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased with your answer, very pleased. I pointed out at the very beginning, and you ended up in your statement that this is a very significant project. I would not only say in the reform of high school education but also in our government's program. It is, I would say, in schools a historic moment this introduction of a state degree, and also one, more of the important measures of this government, which is the introduction of anti-corruption measures precisely in the field of education. Thank you, and I think we have a lot of time in these two years, and if it's going to take some of these brochures and notes and what's going on in our high schools today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14916	Thank you. They're going to ask Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14917	Your Honor, Your Honor, the Prime Minister. I am disabled in this performance because you are shortening and recommending to be shortened, and given that my colleague Doric has absorbed one part of my question to Minister Pankretic, and my question concerns the Deputy Prime Minister of Polancec, then I will actually try to cut it short and hope to earn some rewarding point for the second time, when I should be punished for the extension. Namely, the former government and the current government announced export offensive in their electoral and current activities. The export offensive should have obtained results in both economic and financial terms known to those of the profession, so I would not have elaborated them. Unfortunately, however, after a year and a half of application of the export offensive, the coverage of imports with exports fell from 47% to 43%. In any case, this is a data that does not satisfy anyone and, under these circumstances, the economic situation at global level but also domestically requires certain measures and requires certain procedures. I will not ask for resignation and thinking about resigning, because I see that this Bjelovar-Koprivnica side is ready for such answers, and the vice president is skillful about it, as a poor of few in the government who admits his mistake at the beginning of the meeting and then disarms his opponents and then sets off in another direction. So my question is, in fact, what does the government think it is to do, especially as Vice-President of the Economy and Vice-President of the Government of the Economy, with the promotion of investment in export branches, in export activities. I also say that as mayor of the city where they prepare or have realised investments in manufacturing processes intended mainly for export. We're trying our own measures that are limited to reducing burdens but we're asking the government to do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14918	Thank you. Vice President Polancec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14919	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. MP. Yes, I agree with you that the fact that export coverage at this point is not 43, but here in July, at the end of July was 45.7%, is not something that should make us satisfied. But the fact is that we are taking a number of activities that I believe will, over a longer period of time, lead to this coverage of exports being much greater than at this point. I will mention only some of the measures that are in the power of the Ministry of Economy. You know that somewhere around 40% of direct exports, if we add that and exports through the so-called shipbuilding, around 60% of almost exports are made by small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. We have a programme to encourage the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs for which we have provided through two ministries of 350 million kunas of direct grants, therefore, financial support, and subsidies by interest are included, therefore, on loans. Over 5 billion is capital, therefore, credit potential secured in HABOR and placed towards such companies. 350 million grants will be paid in this year and we are just these days at the end with, therefore, analyses and evaluation of each individual project. For the first time in this year, labour-intense economic branches that are primarily under pressure and under pressure from competition from the Far East, such as the textile industry, the leather industry, we have provided a cobbler with 200 million kuna, something below 200 million kuna direct support in accordance with strategies for each of these individual industrial branches. Competitions, our textiles, here are the concrete ones for which we have secured 100 million kunas can be expected over 9 months and all those who meet the conditions can come forward and I will be happy when we pay for this year's money, because they will certainly need it very much, but a very big incentive for further activities because we know that in our textile companies, for example. More than 95% of everything they produce ends in exports. The restructuring of shipbuilding as much as we speak about privatisation is also carried out in parallel. So let's say one of the figures is the average value of the ship delivered today in 2008 is far above, in dollars I speak of the average value of the ships delivered in 2007 and 2006. And these are some of the measures that we are trying therefore to stimulate production, stimulate exporters. The Investment Encouragement Act is also favourable primarily to those who invest in production activities and we are also designing a new programme to encourage and co-finance infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones, above all, in those areas where we will have guarantees that there will be production and production for export purposes. All of this I believe will lead to this coverage that is relatively low at this point and the consequence is, among other things, a part of monetary policy in this year and a rate like this that must be that if we want to fight inflation successfully. But on the other hand, it's detimulative for the exporters. Stabilising and stopping inflation will also take place in this segment of change, and I believe that in 2009, we will be covered by imports of exports well above 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14920	Thank you. Mr. Hanzek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14921	So I will convert my satisfaction or dissatisfaction and therefore I would ask in writing that if it is possible to obtain one analysis of the effects of incentives and investments through incentives in individual branches and activities, is it proportionate to incentives and measures to achieve an increase in results? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14922	... I suggest that MPs ask briefly and corely, and then it can be expected that both ministers will respond briefly and corely. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Here's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14923	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government, Mr. President, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister, although the question from the Transport Minister's portfolio is, but since it seems important, I would like the Prime Minister to answer. We in Dubrovnik know that boards mean life. But that from our boards and our stage should be reached along a road that also means life in both operational and political terms. I therefore use this institute of questions to thank the Prime Minister and the Croatian highways for making me now a historic decision to start designing the Dubrovnik road section towards the Dolims. It is a very important question for us, and I believe not only for us but for all of Croatia and for the entire Croatian south. You have further strengthened us in the belief that the highway will reach Dubrovnik. But there's one question to me. It seems to me that the public is not familiar enough with the details of the course, about the dynamics of the works, about the possible Schengen on Neum one very soon day. Around the Peljega Bridge will he be in the position of that highway? In public, a fast road and highway is mixed. So it seems to me that people aren't familiar enough with this now, but I say a historical project or even a project of the century if we're not going to say 200 years, two centuries. So I would ask you to answer the question, in fact, that the Croatian public and citizens of the Dubrovnik area know more about what it really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14924	Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14925	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam MPs, there were both inscriptions and comments and various debates about how they were just pre-election promises and that the road to Dubrovnik would not come. And that's why in recent meetings with both you and the people of Dubrovnik and even southern Croatia, we decided to do something that wasn't originally planned. It was originally planned that the road from Split would move further towards Sjevanovac. From the Six-man to the Ravca. From Ravca to Ploče. And it's all going to our own, but then parallel to that we start with this particular action that you said about, which is that of the convicts that Dubrovnik knot is going down the road towards the Dolims. So we're not waiting for each other's shares, and that's how Dubrovnik ends up, but that very quickly, I hope that the location permit for the Osojnik-Dolli stock will be completed by January, which means that the work could start in the spring. This is what we will work on and I am sure that not only will the team, this decision by the Croatian government and by signing the contract with the designers we made in Dubrovnik in early July, will make the inhabitants of the Croatian South feel safe, but also by the fact that we are building a Pelesian bridge. I will once again take advantage of the occasion because there are still those in political circles and others who say there's no point in making no sense. So we can spend a lot better on the money we're going to build, which we're going to build on a sand bridge. That's absolutely incorrect. It is absolutely devoid of any responsibility and any sense to assess the importance of such a project. I remind you that by building the Pelje Bridge for the first time in hundreds of years, Croatia will be territorially connected and it is not, it is not even, I have never mentioned the European dimension of that project before, but also Schengen and the European Union and so on means that Croatia must be territorially connected because imagine that if the import or export from Croatia of any agricultural product goes through the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's export, then. So in ten, fifteen, twenty minutes again, imports to Croatia and so on and so forth. But it's not an argument. It's just another argument that after five years we're on the Pelje Bridge, in which we're on the highway to Dubrovnik and we're pointing it out. So we're building the Ossier down. We end in December, and that is what I will warn you about, two shares and Split-Dubrovnik highway, which is Sjevanovac-Ravča 40 kilometers long. She'll be done by the end of the year. And there will be a knot of the record to the City Tablet. That means 9 kilometers, and they're done by the end of the year. And by the end of the year it will be over when we now talk about highways will be finished, of course, and the full profile of Rijeka-Zagreb highway and, until March, we expect that second part of Slavonika Đakovo-Osjek. When I mentioned it, then it should be said that of course we are building on it and that I believe that by the end of the year, these are also the evaluations of Minister Calmeta and the experts, that Ravca-Ploche will also be finished. It's also about 20 kilometers by the end of next year and then it goes Ploche-Puzen as a stock that's already being designed and so on. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in Croatia, we can be proud because in Europe we have gained a reputation among other things and the construction of highways. But we can be even more proud of the fact that wherever the highway goes, whether it's about Lica, whether it's a full profile to Rijeka, whether it's about Slavonica, anywhere, or in Dubrovnik, through Split, the Zadar area, the Sibenik area, was not only about life, but also about a significant increase in economic activity, which means employment and a higher standard of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14926	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14927	Well, here's Mr. President, if there's an institute satisfied, dissatisfied, I'll say delighted with the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14928	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14929	Mr. President, Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darka Milinovic, which refers to radio therapy for cancer. My question is brief and concise, Mr. Minister. It is known that for radio therapy cancers in the Republic of Croatia are long waiting lists and equipment is outdated. What, in fact, does the Ministry of Health and Social Care do to improve such a situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14930	Thank you. Mr. Minister Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14931	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, another problem in the health system is waiting lists and mainly waiting lists for radio therapy. Because when I talked to leading experts in the country and abroad, so I knew that, but here's what I want to share my knowledge with you, that 70% of those people who have cancer end up on radio therapy. But I also knew about this data that it was often waiting for up to 3 months until it came to radio therapy, and the most effective radio therapy was in the first 4.5 weeks. I also knew that the Republic of Croatia had acquired only 4 linear accelerators in the last ten, fifteen years. So, those devices that are needed for radiological therapy. So, the Ministry of Health prepares a project and it will very quickly go into realisation, in the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the acquisition of equipment in the amount of about 500 million kuna. From that, I hope by the fourth, third, fourth month of next year, nine linear accelerators will be obtained. So, if we say that over the past ten years we've acquired 4 such devices in here for the next three, four months we're going to get nine linear accelerators and help the availability of medical services to patients who need it. The effectiveness of this therapy suggests that it is more effective. The fact that it is more effective, radiation is more effective than any of the particularly expensive medicines that we have also talked about on this "Actual Clock".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14932	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14933	I am pleased with your response, and I am convinced that you and our Government will personally do everything in this direction to improve quality and speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14934	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14935	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here, this morning we heard the export occurred on several issues and the question of how the government through various resors encourages exports. Of course, the issue of export coverage with imports is one important issue for the Croatian economy and for Croatia's society and for general progress in Croatia. Well, since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, in fact, one of these institutions that is tasked with helping exporters and exports, given that the current ministry is also working on important other foreign-political objectives and redesigning the ministry. I would like to ask the minister how in this new reconstruction that you have imagined exactly that position and that part of the economic diplomacy that is often spoken of, often have different opinions, is a lot to do. But there seems to be more room for progress, so here if I can get your answer as you predicted in this new reconstruction that Croatian diplomacy will help Croatian exporters and Croatian exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14936	Thank you. Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In addition to joining the European Union and NATO, the alliance is our main foreign policy objectives. Croatian diplomacy also plays an important role in strengthening the role of the Republic of Croatia in the area of Southeast Europe. It is also important to carry out the mandate of a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. But also as one of our priorities in this period, we have also set ourselves up to strengthen the economic component of Croatian diplomacy. For this reason we have also joined the reconstruction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we have formed such a structure which has also been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where within each administration in the Ministry there is a department dealing with the economy. So, both in the administration of neighbouring countries, and in the administration of Europe and the United States and in the administration of multilateral and non-European bilaterals, we have formed departments that will deal exclusively with economic issues. Why does it matter? This is important because Croatian companies and Croatian companies are increasingly active in the external markets. It is something that may not have been seen enough by the Croatian public. Perhaps we should talk more about this, but the data we receive from day to day and the contacts we have with our businesses confirms that, especially in the area of Southeast Europe in countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Albania, Macedonia, Kosovo is increasingly present by Croatian companies. There are more and more jobs not only for the export of Croatian goods to these markets but also for the participation in tenders, construction works, direct investment, the takeover of certain companies in those countries. Croatian companies appear in all these activities. For this reason, we sought the best possible way to help them and decided to go on an individual approach. Croatia is now out of hundreds and thousands of companies that can operate foreign markets, but at this point it is a small number. We have decided therefore on an individual approach and I have already gone to consultations and talks with the presidents of leading Croatian companies, asking them what they specifically want and what they need from our diplomatic and consular representatives. What I heard on one side filled me with satisfaction, because it is not true that Croatian, especially larger companies, are unhappy with what Croatian diplomacy does. There are great examples. I was also appointed by some ambassadors who are indeed at the service, who are helping our companies, who are opening doors for them, who are closely monitoring that Croatian companies would not come into a discriminatory position in these markets and I can say that I am partly satisfied with that. But that's not enough. We need to improve the work of Croatian diplomacy, especially for this reason, and these days there is exactly one memo, a guide to the diplomatic and consular network where we are looking for increased activity of Croatian ambassadors, where we are asking that, in accordance with the needs of people who will deal with purely economic issues, because we want to dimension our diplomatic and consular network and economic advisers, we want to be concrete. We do not want to participate in the story, in the myth of economic diplomacy, but we want concrete measures, concrete people, concrete companies to help directly on the ground, and in the coming months I will talk to all major Croatian exporters, investors, all those working on international markets and I believe that we will achieve a good synergy that will ensure, of course, economic growth, higher wages here in Croatia, but of course stronger the role of Croatia, especially in the area of Southeast Europe. I want to point out one more thing, there's been a lot of talk about it, and the question has been asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14938	Finish the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14939	Can I have another sentence?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14940	Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14941	So, what about visas for citizens of some other countries that must have the necessary visas to enter Croatia has also been a guide to those who are engaged in business, who want to invest in Croatia to facilitate their visa process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14942	... Here you go. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14943	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I am extremely pleased with the answer, showing maturity and the government and our diplomacy to deal with this economic aspect that is becoming more and more important, and to be increasingly present in the markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14944	Thank you. Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14945	Thank you, Mr. President, President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I would like to ask my question to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Namely, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, no one should be subjected to any form of abuse. In public, it is certainly recognised that this government, like the former government, has advocated zero tolerance to violence, especially that violence against children and among children. However, I was encouraged by a video that we can see today on national television, and in this video next to the Council of Europe, the name of the family ministry is on which you are headed. According to my knowledge, Croatia has a legally regulated ban on the physical punishment of children, but I want to trace zero tolerance towards violence highlighted and the necessity of awareness among all of us the need to fight against the physical punishment of children. We also know that the International Council of Europe Conference was held in June of this year in the framework of a campaign against the physical punishment of children. However, since we have no knowledge, we would like you to inform us about the role of the ministry in this campaign, which is its goal and whether the campaign is still going on or off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14946	Thank you. Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14947	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, thank you very much for this matter. As you yourself have said, the Council of Europe campaign launched in Zagreb and I want to point out that Zagreb, namely the Croatian Government, has been given the great honour of this Council of Europe campaign against the physical punishment of children in our country. So, it was in June and the Council of Europe has re-elected Croatia as a partner country as it has done in several previous cases and in a campaign to fight violence against women, but also in a campaign to sensitise the entire public, the entire European public for fighting, for a decent life of people with disabilities. So, this campaign has been launched in Zagreb, and I will mention that the campaign against violence against women has been launched in Madrid and the aim of this campaign, which, together with the Council of Europe, we have launched, is to abolish the physical punishment of children throughout Europe. Croatia, and I am pleased and proud to point out one of the few countries that has completely abolished the physical punishment of children in its legislation. But, of course, the laws are one thing, the practice is another and what we want with our national campaign, and so I thank you for asking, because I can announce this occasion that we will also launch a national campaign, which means a campaign for Croatia, as we have done in the fight against violence against women, that we will further sensitize the public, parents, educators, all those who participate in any way in the system of raising each child. So to point out that physical punishment or any other punishment of children is unacceptable behavior. We will do so primarily through a network of our family centers that we have established almost already in all the districts, as you know in other ways. That's where I call on the media to actively engage. You said, you mentioned this great video video, it's a gift from the Council of Europe, so we had our first chance to see it in Croatia and here, so Croatia will get involved further, I would say in the recommendations of the Secretary General of the United Nations, which in 2009 declared the year of total abolition of all forms, i.e. physical punishment above all. So here I am finally announcing that our campaign will cover a series of activities, but I repeat, it will be presented in a special way and we will specifically invite local administrations and self-government units to join their projects in the overall campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14948	Thank you. Mrs. Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14949	Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14950	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14951	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, honourable ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the secretary of defense, family and intergenerational solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I personally support and welcome everything the Croatian Government and your ministry has done to protect against domestic violence. Here, these days, the State Statistics Institute has published a publication of domestic violence from 2001 to 2006 with data on this serious issue. On Monday, we will mark September 22nd, National Day against Violence against Women. At the same time, that's my question, we're witnessing a jumbo poster and advertising message that tells us how much the government gives for its fleet, and at the same time it doesn't give anything, that is, it doesn't single out a kuna for shelter for women victims of violence. Do we know that the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence for the period 2008/2010 has been adopted? A year that stands for the opposite of what messages and jumbo posters say. I ask you to answer us what we are actually talking about, so that we, as both MPs and MPs in this House, who decide both on these issues and finally the general public, know exactly what this is really about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14952	Thank you. Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14953	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Representative. So here, I'm going to say very briefly, simply and actually I could answer your question that way. As for the Autonomous Women's House campaign, which appeals to the government, but not only to the government, but to cities, municipalities, counties, to be involved in financing shelters, or houses that were specifically built to protect women victims of violence. I'd say yes, so yes to that campaign, and I'd say that they're actually by their campaign, and we've absolutely cleared that up here in conversations with Mrs. Nev Tolle, who is at the head of the Autonomous Women's House and others that it's knocking on the open door. Why? Because a few years ago, the government has made it very clear that it accepts the funding model, i.e. better put forward co-financing of such shelters by the model that the leaders of human rights organisations themselves have proposed by promoting the human rights of women. It's a 30-30-30 model, so 30% government, 30% county, 30% city, 10% from other sources. Thus, in the last four years, here is the fifth one, the government has shown that it understands the problem, that it wants to help both actively and very specifically help. I'm just going to say that my ministry totaled it by competition, because that's the only way we can deploy state money, almost nine million kunas for that very purpose. In addition, the government intervened several times, in fact every year in some crisis situations, for example for the Women's Group "Step" or house, or shelter that exists in Karlovac, in Zagreb for the Autonomous Women's House. I'm going to mention a case last year that I think is quite, by a few aspects, precedent. The secret address of the Autonomous Women's House has been discovered, as you know, by an accident or something else, which is of course not the time to elaborate, meaning women's shelter in Zagreb. We were automatically reacting as a government and two ministries, so the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry, which I led in agreement with the Autonomous Women's House, financed the construction of a new location that was found in Zagreb, of course a secret. I mention that this is a unique case because both the Minister of Health and Social Care and I signed the contract and signed the documents without knowing where that address is and what space it is, means unseen, trust, to protect these women. It's about large funds, about 5 million kunas. Likewise, the government has launched, as you know, programs for hiring women victims of violence that we finance through the Ministry of Economy. It also shows important results, as the main or one of the main reasons why women often do not decide to report a bully and go away from him is economic addiction. So we're helping her get on her feet. Therefore, in conclusion, both we and the government say "yes" to funding or co-financing, but the government has no mechanisms to force the city or county to engage. I, finally, sent letters to the mayors or mayors, today in Croatia where such shelters exist, with a proposal for a joint meeting and an agreement finally on the financing model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14954	Thank you. Mrs. Bilić Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14955	I thank the Vice-Presidents of the Government for this exhaustive response and can only repeat what I said and in the introduction, to welcome and praise the efforts and realization of everything that the Croatian Government and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity have done on this plan and I hope that it will do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14956	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14957	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my question is for Mr. Minister of Health, Dr. Milinovic. True, I intended to ask each other another a question, but after your trust the lapus that 70% of patients with... end up in radio therapy and I would dare to say a slightly inappropriate congenital answer to Ms. Klaric in connection with the Fund of Expensive Medicines, I feel the need to point out something more when it comes to expensive medicines, so for this reason I ask the question on the subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Minister, I remind you, in January, when adopting this year's budget, I warned you of the fact that 200 million kunas are not enough for the Expensive Medicines Fund. I automatically suggested that this item be increased to 350 million kuna so that the most difficult patients in Croatia would have appropriate therapy. However, my proposal has been ignored by the typical HDZ haughtiness that respects only the argument of the number of hands of the ruling coalition in this assembly, not the force of the arguments. All that happened afterwards at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance was the result of this decision. The result of the decision that the Expensive Medicines Fund didn't have enough money. And therefore, the HZZO, with a typical bureaucratic habit of administrative obstacles, has reduced budget gaps in its budget and reduced the chances of the most difficult patients to live in for longer and better quality. It stalled with the approval of therapy, the requests were not approved, no new diagnostic groups had been introduced that HDZ had just promised in October 2007. HZZO said, "Some patients have to die." But that consequence was the consequence of your decision to provide 200 million kuna in the Expensive Medicines Fund this year, not 350, as the SDP suggested for this speaker. All that's happened to patients who have suffered needlessly is the consequences of your decision. So I ask you Ministers, do you feel a personal responsibility for being eight months late and for eight months denied the right for Croatian patients from the most severe diseases to receive quality therapy, to deny the suffering of their families and to reduce the chance to live longer and better?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14958	Minister Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14959	You'd say Mladen Delic, people, if that's possible. We heard it now, thanks for the radio therapy question where we got it, where we get nine new linear accelerators for radio therapy. And you know that the Fund of Expensive Medicines from year to year, as far as financials are concerned, is booming because of people like you who belong to a single lobby that benefits you, so you spread this kind of demagogy here. But you know what? ... And that should be said openly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you know what, you've praised yourself so much, I've remembered a friend of mine. You've praised yourself. So he says to me, you know Dado says, I married the most beautiful, best-looking, smartest girl in my city. I say God holy as you know it, says she told me her mom. That's a lot of thank-you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14960	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14961	I am not pleased with your answer, Mr. Minister, so I ask you to answer my question in writing, but with the fact that in this written reply, you provide me with the amount of diagnosis that so far requires for a fund of expensive medicines, how much money has been spent for that purpose, what is the percentage of the total consumption of prescription drugs, how long has the procedure of... Please, Mr. President of the Parliament, allow me to speak. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14962	You're allowed and you're finished because you have a minute to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14963	So how much money has been spent on the approved requirements, how many percent of the total consumption, how long has the procedure lasted from sending the request to the start of the treatment, how much is the request... /The speaker has been turned off, and then turned on again./... and please submit a letter which mobing it I represent and what evidence you have for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14964	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14965	Mr. President, members of the government. I appreciate the secretary of state, but I think this is where Minister Primorac was supposed to be. There's also no... Government, so I'm going to refer this question to the Deputy Prime Minister, since he's the Deputy Prime Minister. [[You don't understand.]] I don't think the Secretary of State has the responsibility to answer questions like this because he's a professional. There are only problems in this ministry. HNOS was not realised as the minister promised. High school for everything isn't accomplished. I would like to remind you that third and fourth grade students must pay for transport, that this transport is much more expensive than market transport, and the question is whether there is also a question of money laundering within the ministry itself and education. School bags aren't as easy as someone promised. Children wearing them on their backs are much easier than they are, while a campaign against child abuse is being conducted in Croatia. Unseen embezzlement was experienced with the state's prom, students went out on the streets and protested for the fourth time this year, sexual education was not introduced to schools, segregation by sex was conducted in schools, in one word of disaster. My question to the entire government, is this government, and especially here, vice presidents, does this government realize that the knowledge society will not be realized by the work of this ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14966	Madam Vice President Kosor, please. Although addressed to Minister Primorac, replaced by the State Secretary and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is quite sufficient. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The secretary of state is here. Please don't change your Rules of Procedure. When there's no minister, the secretary of state. And here you are, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14967	No problem, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. But let me tell Mr. MP, he probably doesn't know that the State Secretary is the Deputy Minister, State Secretary or State Secretary, and that these are also state officials competent both in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Government and in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to answer your questions. But if you want me to answer you, of course, very gladly, with one note, of course, that Minister Primorac went after the Prime Minister's order for the last send-off of our most respected intellectual, Tomislav Ladan, so I believe that you will respect that, too, and that you will have that understanding. You didn't actually ask a question, so then it's impossible to answer that question with an answer. In fact, you've listed a series of lunches at the expense of the ministry and at the expense of Minister Primorac's work. What I can answer on behalf of the Government is that the knowledge society or Croatia as a knowledge society will remain one of the fundamental pillars in the work of this government. That it is one of the main pillars of the government programme and that the government has proved it in the last term, and there will be plenty of space in this term. I'll just remind you that at the beginning of our last term, we started with a big project of free textbooks for families with eight and more children and that when the budget allows and the opportunity, we'll do everything we can to make it so. We will extend this project to all students who are covered by compulsory education and, as you can see, we do. We are, of course, because this project needs to be looked at and much wider, first of all, to see if Croatia has children and therefore, in the last term, we had to repair everything that the government has ruined and done wrong in front of us, and to do so today in 2008 we have fewer and fewer first-class students, which is the consequence of government policy in 2000-2001, is because in 2003, dear Mr. Representative was born the least children in Croatia ever since the number of children born. So that's the data we need to look at, too, in the context of this whole problem. So we have to have kids to take care of. Thank God the trend is just thanks to the government's projects turned, we're now holding an average of 42 thousand 43. I note that the consequences of especially this from 2003, when I repeat the number of children born, was the smallest ever, and we will have fewer and fewer first classes, and we expect the upcoming trend only around 2010 and 2011, so I don't know why you haven't asked anything about it. Therefore, I note that for free textbooks alone in this year, about 400 million kunas have been allocated, Mr. Representative, that's not a small amount of money. Provided of course free transportation and accommodation to student dormitories, i.e. dormitories, so for the first and second classes, and we will do this project as we have said and spread. And as for your meal, as this has been mentioned in the context of your question that you suspect money laundering, I think it's a really difficult meal, if you have evidence, Mr. Representative, you file a complaint to the USKOK, the State's Attorney's office and other state-owned bodies involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14968	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14969	Honored Madam Vice President of the Government. I really didn't know what sexual activity was between 2000 and 2003, and how many children were born, and how much you contributed to the birth of more children from 2003. I'm just reminding you, this ministry has also made an anti-constitutional decision that has placed students of third and fourth grade students and students in an unequal position compared to first and second students. I'd like to ask... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14970	Now, leave that bag out of the business to carry the bags here. Please leave the bag and go to your place. What's this, what's this? Do you have any more of these? Give me more choices. It's Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14971	Mr. President, here's a quick question I'm going to ask the Minister of Justice. Madam Minister, we are familiar with the problem of accommodation capacity in the prison system, as well as the efforts of the Justice Ministry and your personal to solve this problem. Are there new projects? Are there any new measures being taken to address the problem of the repackation of Croatian prisons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14972	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. Indeed, there is a problem of over-packing in Croatian prisons. In 2001, a law on the execution of prison sentences was passed in Croatia. In 2001, this law really accepted the most European standards for the prison system in line with European prison standards. At the same time, however, it is obvious that the adoption of the law was not a clear investment programme, nor were the funds provided so that the law could be implemented and secured by prison facilities. I must say, when I came to the head of this ministry, I found a million kunas in my budget at the position of investment in the prison system. Today, the position in that position stands at HRK 36 million for a reason because every serious government and serious state must ensure that the laws it has passed and implemented. So we now have an excess of about a thousand, 200 places, or shortfall. We have in the program projects that are either in preparation or in implementation. So, in a prison hospital in Zagreb, in Zagreb, in a prison in Varazdin and in a penitentiary and prison in Sibenik. The projects that are already under way will provide about 800 places in prisons, and in the prison penitentiary in Sibenik, where the project is only in the phase of project preparation, about 400 prisons and 200 detention sites. However, given the European trend, and there is no exception for Croatia, about increasing pressure on prison facilities in Croatia and the Ministry of Justice, we are also implementing a series of measures to drive out the prison system, above all it is a project called "Probation", which is one of the priority government projects and alternative...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14973	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14974	...execution of sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14975	Mr. Mihalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14976	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14977	It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14978	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Polancecu. There is no doubt that Croatia is entering a period of crisis. We have approached prices, prices worth in the European Union, and the average salary in Croatia barely reaches a third of the average salary in the European Union. Imports are twice as high as exports, the country's debt is dangerously high, and citizens are increasingly in debt to patch up their standard and buy the most basic products. In short, to survive. And while the inflation spiral takes a growing swing, you fight inflation in an entirely bizarre way unknown to economic science. You're sending inspectors on the ground, as if they can fix such a condition as Don Quihote on the windmills. You're talking about unwarranted gatherings, it's the termology of socialism, which an hour and a half ago condemned Prime Minister Sanader. As if macro-economic policy can only be guided by cry, or cry at all. My question is, did you promise to form an anti-inflation program for summer a team of economic experts? So where's the program? The summer is over, you should present this programme to the Croatian public or do you really think that inflation will be resolved in itself, as if inflation, as if it were a natural phenomenon, so it came as it came, as it did, that it would withdraw from itself, as you clearly see it, since we do not yet have the sun in sight, this anti-inflation program is being withdrawn from this great responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14979	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14980	Your Honor, Mr. President, I thank you. Dear Parliamentarians, I must say that I can personally agree with you on a lot of things. What I do not agree with or disagree with, I do not agree with the author of the text you read earlier. I can't agree with him for a few reasons. So, I talked about it yesterday, and I'm gonna do it again today. Inflation that we have in Croatia is inflation that comes from foreign offers, it has nothing to do with or very small ties to demand and is not generated by increased demand in the Republic of Croatia, but is generated, therefore, by external factors, generated by rising prices on the side of the offer. First of all, oil prices and oil derivatives are rising. On the other hand, the rise in the prices of cereals on the market in Europe and the world, as well as Croatia's market, is due to the drought that we had in 2006 and 07 in Croatia and Europe. It is also generated by an external factor, transmitted by a factor, a rise in capital price due to the so-called. second-rate mortgage loans, which have come to Croatia, which are reflected, therefore, due to the crisis on the US financial market, resulting in a rise in capital prices. Dear Parliamentarians, if the Croatian government hadn't thought about it and of course prepared for the coming wave of inflation, then we wouldn't be witnessing the inflation we have today, but you believe far, far more. What measures have been taken, I will remind you once again of some of the most important measures. One of the first measures was to tackle the effects of drought already in the 12 months of 2007, so by paying 450 million additional funding from the state budget to tackle the negative effects of drought. We also introduced petrol and diesel in July of last year. In the first six months of this year, we haven't raised the price of electricity and gas. And when you make it so easy to estimate that prices are e.g. Energy in the Republic of Croatia at the level, energy prices in other countries in our environment, then you have to make one analysis, have a basis for such a claim and then I would only mention a few figures. The average price at which INA today sells gas in Croatia is kuna and 20, perhaps kuna and 22 June. The purchase price of those 40% of the gas spent in Croatia is two kunas and 27, it is the market price of gas on the European and world markets. And you know why on July 1st of this year there are no other electricity providers in Croatia except HEP, even though the legal possibilities allow it? So because I can't offer a lower price of electricity than the one offered by HEP today. And yes, we have agreed and negotiated that there will be no new increase in electricity prices by the end of 2009. And yes, there will be no increase in the price of gas for so-called. tariff buyers, that is to say households and all those economies, companies that receive gas through distribution companies, total 38 in the Republic of Croatia. These are all the measures we have taken as well as measures to mitigate the consequences that have been made and developed in the coordination of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy Thank you very much. [[Thank you, end Vice President.]] Here, I'll finish. We haven't talked anywhere about the economic team of experts we're going to form in the summer because we have enough competence and knowledge and we know how to fight inflation. And finally allow me a personal comment, and I expected from you Madam Representatives that you will respond to the primitives that we just had the opportunity to hear from one parliamentary representative, and I am disappointed that such a reaction has not come, which is missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14981	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14982	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you'd have to understand that inflation affects really the poorest workers with low wages and pensioners. In 2003, you inherited an inflation of 2%, and this summer it was 8.4% with the fact that for the poorest citizens it is 20%, it is for those who have to buy, not yachts, not expensive cars and other trinkets, but have to buy for them capital goods such as oil, bread and milk to survive at all. And you right now, Mr. Polancec, you claim so demagogue that it isn't us that inflation would be even bigger and that's how you comfort the citizens. But they don't care about that demagogy, they're interested in a better life that you and this furniture obviously can't, and you don't want to give them that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14983	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miranda Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14984	Your Honor, Mr. President, I will refer my question not to anyone else, but to Minister Milinovic. And what I would like to emphasise is the state of health at the moment it is. Mr. Minister, at the beginning of your term, you said, quote: “When I took over this portfolio, my main motive was to stabilise the system and implement a serious reform. ” The first reform step you took was to give up the reform teams for those who needed to implement the reform. The second step was to announce that since 1 August of this year you will follow the spending in hospitals and that you will uncompromisingly replace those directors who do not stick to the financial frameworks. On August 1st, it passed, and on September 15th, we still have no record of what the directors were doing. You said that some principals agreed with suppliers, which is a crime, you didn't say what the directors were, no one was removed and we know why. Because the head of the hospital is being appointed by the directors of HDZ members, so how come they're changing their people now, it's not quite right at the moment. Instead of acting, you've turned to thinking, so you're thinking about new moves, new taxes on tobacco products, you're thinking about participations and inventive models of compulsory health insurance that are nowhere in the world, and your co-workers are thinking about, let's say, the director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is thinking about eliminating biochemical laboratories in health homes in such a way that it definitely makes health care impossible for our citizens. You ministers look and the whole system just think and you're in the stage of thinking and isn't it time to do something?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14985	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14986	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you for this question. Yeah, I said, I promised to stabilize the hospital system, not me, but the government of the Republic of Croatia along with its coalition partners, and that reform is a permanent process, I compared it to a plastic toy, so that kid gets bored with that toy and then a little bit reshapes it, so it's interesting again. That's how I see health care. We have to reshape it every day, almost every day. We've stabilized the health system, I've said it x times, and now I'm going to do it again. Up to 1. The 4th hospitals created, the hospital system created 100 million kunas of debt at the monthly level. Now it does not create a new debt but for the first time since the 4th, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th month in the health system it falls. Isn't that stabilising the health system? I said, and now I repeat, I'm going to replace the directors who didn't know how to meet the new business conditions. But let's see if it matters whether it's 10 days before or after, because I had some indication that it's possible that individual directors were agreeing with suppliers to prove their financial stability. That's what I heard, and that's why I had a very good analysis done before the meeting that I am now announcing in Plitvices, which will discuss the operations of hospitals in this past term. You said I canceled the team. I didn't cancel the team. I am preparing a reform of the health system at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. There are very smart, capable young people who prepare it and then we go to a public debate. Of course, first our party, our coalition partners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then we go to a public debate. I'm ready to come in for me to shed a nest in a political sense, SDP, and talk about reforming the health system. A biochemical lab, the elimination of a biochemical laboratory, that's such a demagogy. What did we say? We go to those health homes that have no laboratories to say in the reform of the health system that the doctor will take out or the nurse will take out blood and that the blood will be deposited, that we will arrange transport so that those homes of health who do not have a laboratory that patients do not have to go from one end of Zagreb to another to go out of the blood rather than to draw blood from the doctor general practice, family medicine and that the place of the patient is doing a service that will be organised by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And now I'm announcing a 30.9th meeting on Plitvices to discuss. I invite you to come here publicly, you and Mr. Jovanovic, to come and talk there about the operation of the hospital system during these 4.5 months of the 4th month. I'm ready for such an argument. I'm ready to make another call, and here's the two of you. It seems to me that I have succeeded in part of the SDP and all of the Croatian Parliament to raise health above the narrow political interests. I know you love your party. I love mine. But I have Croatia above all else. And once again, I call for a political consensus. Let's raise the health care above the narrowing interest, and I need to explain to you that I have heard the data from the eminent experts that 70% of oncology patients end up on radio therapy. Either before surgery or after surgery. I heard that. Let me, let me get the wrong information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14987	Mr. Representative Miranda Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14988	Mr. Minister, you're thinking again, and here you're selling us thoughts about what we should do and how we should make that, if it were the abolition of our homes, health is a memo, biochemical laboratories. There's a memo from the Department of Health Insurance asking you to make a statement about it. In addition to this one stupidity is also, I do not think the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has the right to interfere with health policy because it is the policy of the Ministry of Health. And your system is falling apart and I think it's time to start a reform or tell everyone in public that there's nothing from the reform and that the directors will continue to hide their debts without you even mentioning you've been puking on expensive medications and you've forgotten the 3 billion kunas you're currently running into prescription drugs. Two billion and 300 if I remember it in the budget. Two billion and 300 is your prescription budget. At this point, you're missing it, and by the end of the year, you'll be over 3 billion. So it's time to deal with the whole system, not just one part of it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14989	Thank you very much. When you win, anything can be proposed. ... Please don't extend this over. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I asked you both in answers and in questions. We're wasting a lot of time, and that's why we're here. You see that for two hours and there's still 7.8 MPs. Here you go, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14990	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I would have a question for the Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Given that the labour market in Croatia will soon become a unique part of the labour market of the member states of the European Union, normally before that Croatia will have to meet certain conditions, especially as regards changes to the Labour Act. Recently, on the subject too, the Prime Minister had a meeting with the social partners. I would like to hear it, especially because the tensions between social partners have been growing lately, so we can read or hear through the media today that individual social partners are asking to reduce labour rights. To change the Labour Act in this direction or that direction. I am interested in having Mr Vice President answer what Croatian workers can expect soon through harmonisation means our working legislation with the European Union directives? Will this be to the detriment of the labour market, meaning to the harm of labour law, to workers especially in the field of work at a specified time, especially in the field of working time, there is also a reference to pauses, rest breaks during work? So vacations and so on. This is why citizens, the Croatian public and especially workers could hear from you what will actually be in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14991	Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14992	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. MP, I thank you for this question. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that the agreement between the social partners is therefore both the government and the employer and the worker representatives that at the moment when we are talking about the Labour Act we are going exclusively to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union. So to comply with this law with best European practice and not to take a step outside these frameworks. In doing so, I must say that several chapters that are extremely interesting to the Croatian public are primarily for the workers, you mentioned some of them. I'll just in short lines get on them refer. First of all, when we talk about work for a certain time, let me take out a few numbers. I would like to say that in Croatia, of all employees today, only 12.9% are employed for a certain time. In European Union countries, this is 14.9%. However, when we talk about new employment or employment in one year then during the year, over 80% of all employees are employed for a certain time, and of course there is room for social partners' talks. Social partners' talks, social dialogue is something we not only swear on, but live and implement in practice, and that is why certain standards are set in the mandate of the past Government and these Governments. The standards of communication on the Economic Social Council that is being held today must be said on a regular basis almost once a week. Standards of meeting the prime minister himself, the prime minister of the government in bilateral talks with employers and, of course, trade unions and tripartite meetings held once every two months. Therefore, amendments that will be exclusively consistent with the acquis of the European Union. I'd like to say there's going to be some kind of expansion of workers' rights. First of all, you mentioned a week's work hours. So far, the week's work hours have been 40 hours, full-time plus allowed overtime of 10 hours. Now it decreases to 40 hours full-time plus maximum time allowed overtime of 8 hours. So it's getting smaller. As for the annual vacation, the shortest vacation so far was 18 working days. On Saturdays, they didn't count on working days, so it was actually three full weeks and three days. Now it will be 24 working days with Saturdays counting on vacation, which in other words means a full 4 weeks, which is therefore more felt than in the current legal solution. And I would also like to say that there is one change also that means compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Untapped vacation so far has been transferred to another company when the employer was changed. Today's solution that we offer to each other, I believe that we will comply with this in order to ensure that this unused vacation allows the employer to use it to the worker before moving to another company or to pay compensation for unused vacations. And two. Another very important solution is that the working council, the organisation of working councils in certain enterprises so far, has been the right of workers, a new legal solution that would be fully aligned with the acquis, it becomes an obligation And these are the most important elements of harmony, and I believe that from this you see that actually workers' rights are increasing rather than reducing. [[- Intruder: Finish the vice president!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14993	Thank you. Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14994	Thank you very much. I'm happy anyway, because it means that all these media, inscriptions and these stories are stories without cover, and I'm particularly glad that there's no reduction in labour rights and that if I get it right, it won't come to what's most important for the workers and the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14995	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee will be here at 2.30 p.m. tomorrow at 8.30 p.m. The chairman of the board, Mr. Tomljanović. It's Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14996	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask my inquiry to Minister Jandrokovic. We know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with your ministry is making great efforts and taking great steps to bring Croatia into equal membership in NATO as soon as possible. NATO does not just mean the safety of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. NATO also means great opportunities for the development of the economy itself. As I come from a war area that has been affected by Nova Gradiška and today we are there today to resolve the consequences of the war, and if we were members of NATO in the 1990s, Serbia should not even look at us, let alone cross our borders and destroy that part. Mr. Minister, a question for you. What activities are ahead of Croatia ahead of the next NATO Summit in Strasbourg in April 2009 and when we plan that the Republic of Croatia will be a full member of the NATO Alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14997	Minister Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14998	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I agree with your grades and the fact is that what started in the late 1980s and early 1990s by entering Croatia into NATO alliance, Croatia's entry into the European Union gets its full meaning. Croatia will open a new page of its history. Croatia will also face new challenges on the internal plan, but also on the foreign-political plan. These challenges are the result of, of course, the time in which we live, globalisation and, according to our judgment, it is the only possible answer Croatia can offer to its citizens and which Croatian government, including the Croatian Parliament, because there is a consensus of all political parties around joining NATO and the European Union. As far as further steps are concerned, they are clear and predictable. We got a call at the last summit in Bucharest. After that, two rounds of accession negotiations were held. After that, we also submitted a timetable for the completion of the reforms and it ended with the signing of a protocol on Croatia's membership in NATO that took place in early July of this year. In this way, conditions were created for the start of the ratification process in the parliaments of the member states and I would like to inform you, you probably already know that the first parliament to ratify this Protocol, the parliament of neighbouring and friendly Hungary, and as far as I saw yesterday, the President of Parliament received a letter from his Hungarian counterpart. Also today, I received a letter from the Hungarian Foreign Minister reporting on the Hungarian Parliament's decision. It's the first in a series of ratifications. NATO has 26 members. So, 26 ratifications should take place over the next 6 to 7 months, because the goal is for Croatia as well as for our partners within NATO to become a full member at the next summit that will take place in early April in Strasbourg and Cologne Croatia. So until then, the whole process should be over. It is a summit marking the 60th anniversary of the existence of the NATO alliance and it would really be a great symbol for us all to celebrate along with Croatia and Albania's membership. In addition to ratification, Croatia must continue its policy, responsible policy towards the area of Southeast Europe. Croatia will continue to participate in peacekeeping operations. Croatia will also coordinate its foreign policy with the Member States and the European Union, as well as NATO, and I would also like to look back on the comments we heard during the summer after the Georgian crisis that Croatia does not have its own policy, that Croatia only repeats what others tell it. It's just not true. Croatia has its own foreign policy. Croatia protects its national interests through this foreign policy, but the framework is different, the framework is new. Today, we are coordinating and harmonising our views with the Member States. It is not just us, but it is done by all 26 other member states and Albania who are currently in the same situation as Croatia. We do this because it is best for our national interests, which is best for Croatian citizens. We become part of an alliance that is an alliance of the strongest countries in the world, with which we share the same values as democracy, the market economy, the protection of human rights, citizens, protection of minorities, social justice. So these are the countries with which we are connected both the historical links and the values that we belong, but also the future. And NATO membership is the best answer and best guarantee for the safety of Croatian citizens. So, we will continue with this policy, we will continue with all the reforms that we must do until the NATO Alliance enters itself because it is in the interest of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u14999	Thank you. Mr. Mato Biljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15000	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer, and I hope the vast majority of our citizens do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15001	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15002	Dear Mr. President, a question for the Deputy Prime Minister of Polancec. Vice President, you seem to be in state high school today, and they're really asking you the most, so I'm going to be joining the team somehow. Vice President, this summer has really been a summer to remember, and thanks to one, I can feel free to say crazy, one... The situation that occurred when the provisions on the Trade Act entered into force that our trades only work until 21 hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, twenty days before that in this House of Commons there was a debate about this law because we were warning the opposition of all the illogicality, and the madness of such a decision for which five of the first children you gather in Dalmatia told you, who put this together, it's some Antun Tun, not the Government. So it was clearly white that it would cause a situation that was very unusual that would lead tens of thousands of tourists into a situation to wonder where they came to tourism when at 9 o'clock in the evening all the shops shut down exactly when they were having dinner, when they went shopping. Then came that regulation that came to change that, but you see. The point is, you didn't even want to listen to it when it was debated in the House, that you didn't want to appreciate it. The point is, we really need to ask ourselves in your portfolio, so what kind of experts are they? Are they even able to reason rationally when they pass such a law in a tourist country with such a provision that takes effect in the middle of the tourist season? Are you going to be held responsible for this debauchery or will guilt fall on some irrelevant officer again? Do you think this kind of "pull-out" law really works for us or anyone in this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15003	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15004	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Parliamentary representative, I must remind you of the procedure and the course of the establishment of the Trade Act that you mention. As you know, that law has been working for many years. As you know, he was in two readings in this House and as you probably know and remember, that law passed the GSV procedure twice. All these institutions discussed him and had opportunities to give their court a wide circle of people. I have to say that everyone was focused on working hours before all Sundays, and that few remarks were made on a working day. Just because such a procedure was adopted, we did not expect such reactions as happened in the summer, but when they happened, as responsible, we acted responsibly. So we called on representatives of the alliances, or associations of cities and municipalities, we called on our coalition partners, primarily unions and employers, and brought the debate back. And this debate has yielded fruit and a regulation has been defined which is the legal solution and the article that we have all brought together, so not only those who wrote it, but all those who debated it. So the promotion was found in a way that, therefore, the unit of local self-government, a time that as a working time in the law can be defined and extended. I would like to hear from you whether you have any information as to how many units of local self-government after the adoption of this regulation really extended the working time of trade in their places for more than 21 hours. That information is very interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15005	Mr. Jurevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15006	Well, you'll give it to me if you know. It's just that it was in the middle of summer, it's that the first reading scheduled them to work until 10:00 p.m., and in the second to 21 o'clock, that's what the SDP Club warned about, namely, colleague Dragica Zgrebec. And you know what the worst thing about this place is? Yes, I have the feeling that the Croatian Parliament is being immersed because if we fly off a boat, from a summer, from anyone, and we get the prime minister, and he says in the media on TV, "The law will change, the regulation goes." Then I get the feeling he's acting like a "Deus ex machina," like a deity that goes down and says, "It's gonna be like this because it's stupid, and it was a stupid debate in Parliament and it was warned it was stupid. There was a warning. We can now talk about how many have changed or not, but we know what the reaction was in the middle of the season by tourists. Secondly, it is necessary to protect the integrity of the Parliament that laws are passed, not that its regulations from the beautiful blue Adriatic are changed by the laws of the Adriatic Blue Grief. We're here to create them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15007	Thank you. In accordance with the law. It's Mr. Mario Habek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15008	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I ask the question to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Mr. Damir Polancec. Minister, on the latest scale of the World Bank to be measured... Business in 2008, Croatia is located at 106th place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In front of Croatia are Slovenia, Montenegro, Romania, Bulgaria, and Albania as of this year. Croatia is in a society of states such as Bangladesh and ciziland. This disastrous place Croatia has been given because 410 days for the issue of construction permits, for the registration of ownership 174 days, and for the start of the company for 40 days. It's obvious that the World Bank has seen you through and that they realize that reform has nothing to do with it. The rules and procedures have been shortened, and in practice processes have been embarrassingly long, and are further hampered by administration burdened by a large number of unprofessional people employed by similarity and association with HDZ. My question is, how do you interpret this disastrous place on the world ranking list?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15009	Answer. Mr. Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15010	Thank you very much, Mr. President. MP, let me briefly answer your question. Here, I'm going to start by saying that this is one of the polls that ranks all the countries of the world, or those that come into the category at all to be ranked. And I have to say, in that survey, we've been here since recently. For example, between 2000 and 2004, we were not in the survey at all, so we were not considered at all. But now that you're just mentioning this ease of business, respecting the world's maximum and similar institutions and their course of survey, I must say responsibly that this poll is quite lacking. I'm responsible for that as a minister of the economy. And I have to answer you one more way. So, 106th place of business and ranking us behind some of the countries that you mentioned here, and I'm not going to repeat them, I have to say that with absolute security and with great experience, I have to say that I don't share the opinion of this poll and I'm going to give you arguments about it. As you know, I came to the Government of the Republic of Croatia from a food company that had its own production units, its representations, but also my businesses in 17 countries around the world, mostly in Europe. In part of my career, I was in charge of these companies. It is located in all countries of the former Yugoslavia, but also in Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Russia, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany, Australia, New York. And believe me, I know very well, and I felt on my own skin what is the ease of doing business in some of these individual countries. And believe that there could not be many entrepreneurs in Croatia who because of this ease of business are willing to do business in these countries, go to live there, work and do business, shut down their business activities here, and believe that many entrepreneurs from these countries would be very happy to do business and live here. If you don't believe me, I actually recommend you try to go to any of those countries you mentioned and try doing business there and you'll know what I'm talking about. Believe me, to do business in Croatia, Croatia is highly decorated, Croatia has its specifics, has its shortcomings, but this poll takes a very small number of criteria into account when ranking individual countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15011	Mr. Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15012	Your Honor, this answer is clearly your only answer. How come it didn't bother Singapore, it didn't bother Britain, the United States, Ireland, Canada, among the top 10 on this ranking? And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to mention here the 2007 Best Reformers Award, Minister Schuker thanked this award, but this ranking list shows in fact that there is nothing in Croatia from the reforms and that there is a chaos in the system that really borders with disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15013	Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15014	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government. I'm referring the question to Mr. Calmeta. A little less than a year ago, more precisely 10 months ago, the first section of the 5C highway was put into circulation, which was then released by the President of the Parliament in Slavonica, from Wednesdays to Djakov. After that, work continued on the stock from Đakov to Osijek. My question is: What is the situation with the dynamics of the works, and when will the stock be opened or in other words, when will the highway reach Osijek? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15015	Mr. Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15016	Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So it is a 5C corridor, a European corridor that goes from Ploč to Budapest, from Budapest to Ploč, so it is very important and important for Croatia's transport integration, but also important for Slavonia, as well as Baranja. This first stock is like you said yourself in office. We've all been through it and we've been driving, and I think we're all really excited about that 23km long stock from the middlemen to the Đakov. This stock you're talking about is a stock from Djakov to Osijek. She's 33 km long and she's almost done. All works are agreed, so equipment and supervision, construction before, so in March next year is expected and it is a realistic term for it to be released and into operation and then by the same share to Osijek we are practically driving with the highway. However, I would like to say one more thing, and that is that the tender documentation is now being prepared for the construction and start of the works further, so from Osijek to Bela Manastir and that bridge over Drava and all objects on the track. Why? Because these are first objects that need a longer period of time to build them, and tomorrow when the road itself is built, since they will already be built, there will be no need to close the local roads on that part where the highway passes. Therefore, a tender for construction is now being launched, I repeat, and the bridge over Drava on the highway route and all the facilities and their construction will begin next year. This 25km-long stock from Osijek to the White Manastira practically starts immediately after the sale of this stock to Osijek. So everything goes according to plan. I think about that, I'm sure we don't need to worry, and it'll all be done as planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15017	Thank you. Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15018	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Of course I'm happy with your answer, and I'm sure it's satisfied with all the Slavons.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15019	It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15020	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister Polancec. Minister Polancec, in response to a number of questions that you have been asked today, you have sought to undermine the government's responsibility for inflation in Croatia. However, there are facts, there are figures, and they say inflation in Croatia is 7.4% and GDP growth is modest 3.7. So Croatia obviously eats its substance. Every next day of your government, Croatia is getting poorer. Not everyone does. The narrow layer of the richest is getting richer every day of the government's actions. That proves the figures. Food is spent 12.5% less. Now it's not because these rich people went on a diet, it's because they have nothing left to buy food for. Minister, you understand, these people are hungry, they don't have food. At the same time, while most people are saving on that food, they owe themselves to banks through minuses in their accounts to sort of break the end of the deal. The rich spent 170m euros here in Croatia on yachts only during the first seven months of this year. I ask you Minister, when will you finally admit to the public what everyone already sees, what the President of the Republic is telling you, what the last poor man sees in this country, that with you ministers but completely incapable of leading the resort?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15021	Thank you. Mr. Polancec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I'm gonna stop by my assessment of your abilities, but I'm gonna try to answer your question if there were any questions at all. So today in this House of Highs, by respecting all of you MPs, I was very much talking about what global movements are and how they reflect on the situation in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that this year and global movements this year have surprised many economic experts not in Croatia but believe me worldwide. The fact is, we're facing challenges like that a year or two ago, we couldn't even dream of happening to us. Not us, but any economic expert in the world. But it is also a fact that we have responded to these challenges mostly well and successfully. As much as anyone likes it or doesn't like it. If one Germany has halved its estimates of gross social product growth, if the vast majority of EU countries have done so in particular 15, if in these countries today inflation is at a level twice the expected level when the 2008 budgets are defined then believe it is not specific that we are faced with such changes and such corrections and we are here in Croatia. I was talking about how we tried and tried to contain and reduce inflation. You may not have to, and you don't have to like my hair. You don't have to like my complexion that often gives me that when I feel uncomfortable, but I won't let you disrespect what I'm doing and I can't let anyone else call me a socially insensitive man. Mr. Stazić, I wasn't born in Ban Jelačić Square, nor in gold ballads, I was born into a working-rural family, and I am extremely proud of it, with modest incomes. My father and mother managed to educate two kids who had graduated from college and through my life I had broken through thanks to my always honest performance and the energy I was investing in the work that I was doing. I may not have all the knowledge of this world, but I certainly have a lot of energy, to learn quickly and to love and to work. You can tell me anything, but I can't work, I can't work and I can't bring myself into it, I won't let you or anyone else do it. So the results you mentioned, I'm going to upgrade them a little bit. We have 219 thousand unemployed persons in Croatia at this time, nobody mentioned it today, and this is the lowest unemployment rate in Croatia in the last ten years and this is also the result of the work of this government. Of these 219 thousand 52,000 people received a certain fee this year, which says that the unemployment rate is actually less than 219 thousand people, which is also the result of our work. Because we're socially insensitive, we've paid back the debt to the pensioners that you've claimed doesn't exist or we're returning it and it's in the process of repaying the debt. We're a legal solution...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15023	Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15024	I'll be done soon, very soon. We have managed to provide a legal solution to the pension of the pensioners and we feel very much what is happening and how our man lives. Once again I ask you, both you and the other MPs from personal grades, about them we can do one in one, and there's no need in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15025	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15026	Mr. Minister, as long as the Constitution of this country is as it is, the Parliament will evaluate your work and I, as a representative, will evaluate your work, not you as my minister. If you're going to respect the Constitution, and only if you don't think so, then change the Constitution or suggest a change. Secondly, you say that you came from a poor family and that you were educated. But when you were educated, then the government of this country wasn't HDZ, and I assure you that it was, you from such a poor family couldn't finish schooling. Third, you are talking about inflation in Germany and in the countries of the European Union. It is twice as small as in Croatia. Fourthly, you cannot be free of responsibility as government and as prime minister and vice president for the state of the country. Because which government will answer, which government should we ask? The Australian government, New Zealand? We have to ask you, and you obviously don't answer me for these rich people. Because it's obvious how the activities of this government, it acts like the super Kiki of Alan Ford, takes the poor to give to the rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15027	Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec is the last one, and it looks like it's an alphabet.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15028	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm asking the question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Pancretic. The funding for incentives and support in agriculture in the state budget is increasing year by year, and I consider it good. But production decreases, imports rise, food prices explode precisely this year. In the first 6 months, and these very days data has also been published for the first 7 months, imports have increased significantly and financially by over 20%, and exports have been reduced by over 25%. If we talk about the impact of prices on imports and exports, then we see that the products that we export are probably far below the financial quality, than they are the ones that we import. The shortage in agricultural trade increased in the first 6 months by as much as 34%. These are alarming data for every country, so they must be for Croatia as well. A year ago, so before the HSS isos you said that the government's agricultural policy at the time had a breakdown. I agreed with you then, and you probably meant it that way. As you explain today the spending of several billion kunas of tax money to support agriculture, while at the same time we have a drop in production and an increase in exports, a decrease in exports, an enormous import and an enormous rise in prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15029	Mr. Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15030	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Representative. I'd be happy to answer this question of yours, because I think we're going to be demystifying some of the things they're trying to do again, and I'd say in public that they're not who they are. I'll make it very clear that we agreed on this as if we were in a coalition on the same side, so I understand that you don't understand me now, and we can discuss it some other time, and let's talk about what's defined. I'm definitely telling you that we're the data that you're dealing with right now is not relative to the amounts we have relevant. And of course you know as well as an agronomist that we cannot link support to production. All that can be done is in the future and what we do is invest in capital investments. We must make our agricultural producer competitive. If he is competitive, then we will certainly be able to deal with all those who are challenging to all of us today. And that's why on the first day I came in, we doubled capital investments, and we're going to double it until it allows us to budget, because only with new knowledge, new technologies can we respond to all that competitiveness that we have today. That if you believe these prices and these amounts, which I have already explained today, as far as financial amounts are concerned, we can fight, but we are not a small island, but we are in a global market and all the prices that are food, which are almost doubled, affect Croatia and in the future will also affect us. So I think we're aware that in this part we're tracking the part that relates to the increase quantified, but let's be realistic, so let's say, certain things in that part have been quantified and reduced. That if we're not satisfied and I agree here, we won't have to work on that export of agricultural products and food industries. Neither the process of stopping imports nor the process of strengthening exports are those that can come overnight and there will be much work to be done on them. We are working on some at the moment, and we certainly need to work on these in the long term, and we are taking measures here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15031	Mrs. Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15032	I'm not an agronomist by trade, I'm an economist by profession, and I'm very well in control of this financial data, at least that's what I think, and the data I've provided is from the State Statistics Office. So they're relevant and they're the only real information that's for us official information. Capital investments yes. However, in order to increase competitiveness through capital investments, one cow, one hectare of production, cannot be supported. This should be addressed by some other measures. Surely capital support should go to those who can use such capital support to be competitive. What, though, is the difference between how you viewed agricultural policy a year ago and today? The difference is that you were sitting in opposition benches in the Parliament at the time, and today you are sitting in the chair of the minister in power and you really need to talk in another way about the agricultural policy that I dare say to the latest amendments to the Law on Support is a step back, not in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15033	Thank you very much. I thank you all for your patience and perseverance, but we have asked 41 questions and answered them. Continuing at 1600 hours. According to the agenda, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15065	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It's on the agenda: 1. Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 134 We have accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by the Committees on Law, Justice, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Does the Proposer want a representative? State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjak will discuss the proposal further. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust shall be ratified by that Agreement. Eurojust is the European Union body established by decision of the European Union 28. 2. In 2002, representatives of the Member States of the European Union participated in the work and were established to improve the cooperation and effectiveness of coordination between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in carrying out investigations and persecution of serious cross-border and organised crime, as well as to improve procedures for providing more complex forms of international assistance in criminal matters and to speed up extradition procedures. The obligation to ratify the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust comes from Chapter 24. "Contract, justice, freedom and security". Cooperation with Eurojust for the Republic of Croatia is important especially in the context of the fight against corruption. Furthermore, one of the important measures of the anti-corruption action plan is precisely ratification of that agreement. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Mr Michael Kennedy, the Minister of Justice, Ms Ana Lovrin, signed the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust on 9 November 2007, confirming the formal integration of Eurojust and the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust in the fight against serious forms of international crime. Confirmation of the agreement will improve co-operation in the field of justice and home affairs with the Member States of the European Union and other countries which have concluded similar agreements with Eurojust, which is of particular importance for the negotiations between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. Confirming the contractual relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust improves the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the institutional structure of the European Union, thereby facilitating the takeover of the responsibilities of full membership in the European Union and thereby in Eurojust. Confirmation of this Agreement will not require the adoption of new or amending laws or additions to existing laws. We therefore propose to accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15067	Thank you. Legislative committees, the judiciary? The Constitution? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15068	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here's just a brief review of this law. Namely, this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust with the Final Proposal for the Law is only one of the series of which the Croatian Parliament takes over certain European legislation institutes, making them part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. However, I think that, in relation to many of the agreements already adopted by the Croatian Parliament, as well as those of the future ones that are yet to be accepted, there is still a certain difference in this agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust. As we can see from the material today in front of the Croatian Parliament, Eurojust is a relatively new body of the European Union founded to improve the effectiveness of the competent authorities of Member States in the area of cross-border and organised crime and to promote and improve the coordination of investigations and prosecutions, and to support the countries signatories of the agreement so that their investigations and prosecutions are as effective as possible. Therefore, it is seen from this that Eurojust plays a unique role as a new permanent working body in the field of European law, and it is therefore important to point out that Eurojust has maximum respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms in its work. As the Office of the European Union for Judicial Cooperation and thanks to this Agreement, it is expected that Eurojust will be able to cooperate significantly more closely with the Republic of Croatia and enable the exchange of personal data in cases which are or will be subject to cooperation. As a candidate country for membership in the European Union, Croatia must develop cooperation with Eurojust, which is of course of mutual interest for both Croatia and Eurojust, and these provisions of the agreement make it very clear. However, I believe that regardless of all the provisions of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust, the basic objectives of the conclusion of such an agreement will not be possible unless the Republic of Croatia has a hasty solution to all the burning issues related to the functioning of the Croatian judiciary. These are mostly well-known things and the perception of the Croatian public when the issue of the judiciary is unfortunately very questionable by the surveys conducted and, in particular, by public opinion and perception of the Croatian public, the judiciary is at the very top when it comes to illegality and corruption. This proves with the rest of the statement by the President of the European Commission from yesterday's meeting with the Croatian prime minister, in which it is clear that Croatia has failed to reform the judiciary and that areas where the Republic of Croatia is expected to make greater progress in negotiations with the European Union are precisely judicial reform and the fight against corruption. I think a lot of things have not been done in this respect, so it must be one of the priorities of Croatian legislation because otherwise the agreement with Eurostat will remain only good wishes on paper that will remain inconclusive in Croatia's reality and will not improve cooperation in the field of the fight against crime and all forms of serious crime. Since it is a formal process to confirm the previously signed international agreements and since changes and additions to the text of an international contract cannot be made at this stage, we would certainly have had a lot of objections and proposals and the fact that it is still expected that the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust will be the basis for effective cooperation in the fight against organised crime and other forms, the fight against terrorism and other forms of serious crime. The Croatian People's Party MPs' club will support the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, but will continue to insist on resolving issues related to the Croatian judiciary and expect the resolution ministry and other supranational bodies to do everything possible for the Croatian judiciary to welcome and experience better days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15069	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Office of the European Union for Judicial Cooperation. I would also like to point out that the office itself plays a unique role as a new and permanent body in the field of European law. Its key role is to strengthen cooperation across Europe mainly in criminal cases. The office is also a key talker with European institutions and institutions such as Parliament, the Council and the European Commission. The Office itself consists of 25 national members from which each Member State of the Union shall designate one of them. The members are senior prosecutors or judges with experience, and some national, national members are supported by envoys or assistants. This office is therefore designed as a European judicial co-operation unit with the purpose of enabling the effective detection and processing of perpetrators of acts of primarily organised crime that crosses state borders, and in its work it maximums the principle of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. The main purpose of the agreement in question is to improve the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the Member States of the European Union as well as with other countries which have concluded similar agreements in the field of justice, but also in the area of internal affairs. When we analyse the agreement in question, we come up with four types of items that are intruding into the jurisdiction of the office itself in terms of effective cooperation that we are actually talking about. The first is to conduct an investigation and persecution procedure. Second, combating cross-border and organised crime. Third, the improvement of the procedure for providing international legal assistance in criminal rights. And fourth, speeding up the extradition process. The basic characteristics of the agreement are therefore governed by the scope of the cooperation and the Ministry of Justice is designated as the competent authority for the implementation of the agreement. The possibility of setting up a state's attorney for a relationship is prescribed. The protection of personal data delivered shall be guaranteed. And it is particularly important, therefore, that the agreement itself determines the protection of personal data received against accidental or illegal destruction, accidental loss or unauthorised detection or any other unauthorised treatment. Therefore, the agreement itself should firstly be regarded as a very important international, international legal mechanism for the achievement of cooperation in all of these above-mentioned cases, especially in those criminal cases relating to organised crime. It is also very important to note that the implementation or confirmation of this very agreement is a very important act, an act of particular importance for the negotiations between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 24 or Chapter 24. So justice, freedom and security. In accordance with all the subject and the law absolutely needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15071	Thank you. SDP advocates' club Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15072	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, they can say at first that the SDP Club supports the implementation of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust. So this institution, which was established in the European Union in 2003, really has one goal that all governments are declaring in Croatia in order to improve and cross-border cooperation, in particular, to combat organised crime, to improve procedures for providing complex forms of international legal assistance in criminal matters, and to speed up extradition procedures that are proven to be very current from time to time. If we look at some of the provisions, which are members of this agreement, then we see that this is primarily a change of data between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust. So the European Union, the countries of the European Union. Now it depends primarily on the willingness of the Republic of Croatia to use this agreement for mutual benefit and also on very concrete and even some delicate things because there are also delicate things not only for Croatia but also for members of the European Union, to use on an even basis. Somehow from the agreement, it's quite natural for things to come out, two equal contract members. But will this really be the case for us as a small country versus the European Union, or a country that wants to join the European Union as soon as possible, depends on how principled and what policy it will represent. It's not enough just to sign this and then I don't care in other laws what the application of this agreement means. If we were to approach this purely mechanically, it would mean that we are simply, becoming a service, an auxiliary workforce when someone needs some data. What we add together, what we have as a state, we give the registers to the European Union. And that's okay. That, that's what we're on, that's in, there's nothing controversial about it. But whether we, with equal rights, will be able to ask the European Union to do the same. So here's the last thing that's being mentioned here, what does it mean by signing this extradition agreement? The famous case is, he has been mentioned recently, although a lot of talk about this extradition problem is not mentioned at all. It is a well-known case of Radosevic, a man, a Croatian citizen who acquired somehow and German citizenship found in Germany, legally convicted. Two proceedings, two county courts issued a warrant for him. Even when I was here, we asked the German authorities to tell us that there was a suspicion that this person had received German citizenship. We didn't get any answers. Of course, the more guided to these things say that giving them an answer is an answer, so don’t disturb us. Now, you see, if things like this didn't happen to us by keeping things principled, because as a small country, we can, it's the only way to lead a principled policy, and we rightly ask for certain data as we're prepared and as we often do without any excess why we give. I'm also going to take this opportunity to something that seems to me that we're not going to be too effective again, or maybe we'll be effective with others, and not with ourselves, and then you'll be giving us a self-evaluation again. Let's take this opportunity and first of all, I grow up to be a nation, as a citizen, as a state. If there is a serious matter here in one serious will to curb cross-border crime, organised crime of every kind, then it seems to me that this norm, or those laws that speak of banking secrets, put us in the face of a major challenge. It is not allowed then, it is not understandable that we have recently established norms in the Banks Act, and now here on the agenda we have the Credit Institutions Act, financial institutions that will be roof laws that will unite both the Banks Act and other financial institutions, where even more barricaded and confused banking secrets. Well, that's never been before, and our mouths are full of fighting organized crime, corruption. And we know that's exactly the nutrient basis for such crimes. And there's something else we're changing about the CAP. This has never happened to the law enforcement authorities and the judicial authorities in the strictest sense of the word, i.e. The courts themselves can be denied the provision of such information. So when was that? It was never in these political areas, no matter what community we were in, and we're fighting corruption and organised crime, and on the other hand, we have a standard there that a whole company of doctors will examine an individual, an individual that has not hidden traces of the crime. And they're nice there some hid theirs in a financial institution that doesn't, which keeps it in such a way that there's a desire to impose that banking secret and the persecution bodies. There was a question at all whether or not at that earlier stage, and now we're going to have a new concept, we have the CAP, and then the investigation will be conducted by part of the judicial authority, i.e. The state's attorney's office can't be. Therefore, when we have on the agenda and when this Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust is drawn up, then the Government must look at its proposals, on the legislative proposals that it does not remain a dead letter on paper, but to see all those proposals of the laws that come here on the agenda, and those who should come, and yet there are no adjustments to exactly the effectiveness of the implementation of this agreement, primarily leading to the Croatian interest. Because when we sign this agreement, and if someone asks for information about the accounts of a particular person, then it won’t be a question, because so far we have a rubber standard “sometimes it can’t, sometimes it can’t, ” so that we as a country will be very effective when we are ministers. We must come out both as a people and as a state of that sub-partite mentality to be equal participants. Only in this way will we gain the respect of our own citizens above all, and then Europe's courteous people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15073	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, Well, here's the area of judicial cooperation, that's clearly said, and when it comes to this agency that we're talking about today, that is, the agreement signed between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust is a more recent nature. For a long time, the judiciary and home affairs have not been an area of cooperation at all, and even less common policy, but in time it has proved that all those objectives that the European Union wants to achieve for its citizens and for its countries are inevitable and so on. enhanced co-operation in the field of justice and home affairs, in particular when it comes to criminal matters and the fight against serious forms of cross-border international crime. So, the fight against organised crime and corruption. Of course, this agreement and what we will be able to achieve through this agreement cannot solve the many things that are open and that stand before our judiciary. I therefore think that in this debate I would rather focus on what this Agreement can give Croatia. I wouldn't be skeptical. This Agreement offers opportunities for the Croatian side, offers opportunities for the European side. So for Eurojust as an agency, but then also for the Member States behind it to exchange these important data when it comes to the persecution of such serious forms of crime. I believe that by signing and ratifying such an agreement, Croatia is one step away and that those who are on the Croatian side in charge of implementing the agreement will know how to use it for the benefit of both the Croatian side and this other party, which is therefore the signatories of this contract. What are the benefits? Well, that seems pretty obvious. So, on the one hand, we have an interest that helps fight organised crime at European level, and I don't think there's much water to be discovered here. It is clear that when it is protected, so when a fight is fought at a wider level, that this struggle seems both more focused and stronger on the internal plan, it will certainly help to reduce this crime globally, but also internally. However, what is certainly to be said, so this part, so Croatia's participation in the work of the agency, this time in Eurojust on the Croatian side is part of the convergence and preparation for one day when we become a member of the European Union, so the implementation of this agreement in the future will give the Croatian side the opportunity to see what it means to function in this institutional environment and the moment when we become a Member State, this contract, as its final and transitional provisions say, will cease to apply because simply by accession agreement Croatia will also become a member of Eurojust, we exist here as a third member state, and then when we enter into membership we will be included in a way, we believe as the 28th member state. So it's clear that we have a double benefit. We benefit from being able to fight this great evil both for the benefit of our citizens and for the benefit of the European Union, but I certainly think that the matter should also be seen in the context of the preparation for membership and negotiations for membership, and I don't think it should be much doubted that this is an agreement which is worthy of Croatia, whose validation and application will bring benefits to Croatia and therefore, here on my part, I would certainly support this agreement and I think it would be good for Croatia to have its representative in this body as soon as possible and that it can then work on the benefit of Croatia as well as on the other parties that have signed this agreement. Here, in so much I support the signing of such an agreement and I believe that the Croatian side will know how to take advantage of all the advantages that such an agreement brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15075	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15076	Your Honor, Deputy President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have before us the Act confirming the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust with the Final Proposal for a Law or an area governed by this Agreement is governed by the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the Office of the European Union for Judicial Cooperation. Since this area is particularly interesting at this time when we have a series of incidents of cross-border character, whether in executions, whether in investigations, or in extraditions, or in providing evidence, it more proves how significant this area is for us, but also for our environment. The Office established the Council of the European Union in 2002 with a view to putting them into 4 basic groups, increasing efficiency, cooperation and coordination of the work of the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in carrying out investigations, carrying out prosecution procedures, then serious cross-border and organised crime and improving the process of providing complex forms of international legal assistance, in criminal matters and for speeding up extradition procedures. It's the essence of office and office affairs. Of course, always two sides get, one more, one less benefits than working together. The fact is that this law gives us far more because members of a full member of the office are all full members of the European Union, so their mechanisms in the judiciary are being opened and made available to our country. This Agreement shall also establish judicial cooperation with and through the Office with all members of the European Union in order to ensure that those members who have signed and joined this Agreement are not members of the European Union. Therefore, there is a wide list of countries from which we will enable ourselves to get the necessary cooperation in this area, and the technical cooperation itself would be carried out through contacts, through representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the State's Attorney's Office and the County Court in Zagreb. Confirmation of the agreement will improve judicial cooperation in the field of internal affairs with all Member States of the European Union, but as well as with countries which have concluded an agreement with the Office similar to this and are not members of the European Union. The Agreement shall regulate the scope of cooperation with the Office as well as the competent authorities for the implementation of the cooperation procedure. In view of the area governed by this law and the content of the agreement which, with the legislation of Croatia, implements this law, I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15077	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15078	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I can't help but believe that this proposal for a law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust with the Final Proposal for a Law was encouraged, or its adoption encouraged by current events, starting from the talks of our prime minister in the European Commission with Mr... And the rest of you, and because of the events that have happened, here's what I say almost current in terms of saying defection to neighbouring countries, some of the defendants in our courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This point is number one after the current morning, and it is a little strange that this is an agreement signed in Brussels on 9 November 2007, and here it is almost, almost a year ago, to be brought to the Croatian Assembly by emergency procedure. It is clear that what the lady is, there is no here, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović mentioned that we would not experience in this agreement what we very often have doubts, and that is some element of the murky mentality. I think that this bill provides one security mechanism, which is that it is possible to terminate this agreement at any time when one of the parties is not satisfied with its effectiveness, whether it is credible by one or the other parties in cases where, for which this agreement is also signed, it is cross-border organised crime and providing more complex forms of international legal assistance in criminal matters, but also what no one mentions, it is speeding up extradition procedures. Since Eurojust acts exclusively within the borders of the European Union, then man is like, to say layman or legal let me say person who is wrong, to the judiciary, to ask, given these latest developments, wouldn't it be good that there is some kind of Bosnia and Herzegovina just or some kind of Serbia just so that we negotiate and talk with them, or we sign similar agreements, because most of these are to say most cross-border organised crime is just happening at the borders of Croatia with these two countries. Unfortunately, it is not spoken of, but in any case I think that since there is one that I have cited, therefore the security mechanism and since there are countries in the European Union that are less than we are to say, and that I am not now counting from Luxemburg, Cyprus, etc. and since they exist and are embedded in this security agreement of the mechanism and the possibility of breaking up and all that is, thus ensuring equality between Croatia and all the other members in which there is and for which there is a Eurojust I think that this agreement is personally said, we are talking in an individual debate, so it is for us to accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15079	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15080	Let's go to the vote, final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 134. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Eurojust. Please, let's get involved. Let's turn these keys on. You're welcome to vote. Score. I would like to point out that the majority of votes are 91st votes for and 2st abstentions to the Bill on the Confirmation of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15081	Let's go to the next one. 2. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 90 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, European Integration, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Courts is an extremely important law, which regulates the structure, the detour and the actual jurisdiction of the courts if it is not determined by another law. The internal structure of courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of judges, judges of jurors, the President of courts, their rights and duties, the protection of persons and property of judicial authorities. So one of the most important laws and any changes to the law are clear to us that it draws great attention. The relevant Law on Courts was adopted on 21 December 2005, and amendments and additions to this law were made on 9 February 2007. In the context of the reform of the judicial system and its harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, it is necessary to make certain changes to the regulations governing the organisation and functioning of the judicial system. Since the implementation of the CARDS project is under way in 2003, support for reform of the judicial system, i.e. the rationalisation of the network of courts, it is necessary to make amendments to this Law on Courts. This law therefore proposes further harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union and the relevant regulations of the Council of Europe are incorporated into it. Judicial cooperation in civil matters and is now governed by the applicable Law on Courts which prescribe the jurisdiction of municipal, county and commercial courts for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court decisions as the jurisdiction of municipal courts to carry out international legal aid cases. Legal solutions on court delivery under European Union regulations should be incorporated into this law, however, these issues in our legal system have been settled in procedural regulations so that there was no need to regulate these issues specifically in the Law on Courts. I think that in the last amendments to the Law on the Prosecution, we have greatly improved this system as well. The justice ministry has joined the project to support victims of criminal offences, which will continue to develop a system of support for witnesses and victims of criminal offences. In the context of negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and Chapter 24 – Security, Freedom and Justice, the provision of support for witnesses and victims in criminal proceedings is one of the areas of legal property of the European Union where the Republic of Croatia must make additional efforts to adapt its legislation and practice to that acquis. The question of the position of victims of criminal offences in the court proceedings will be resolved under the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which passed the first reading in the Assembly. During the implementation of that project, the Ministry of Justice assumed the obligation to install rules on the rights of witnesses and victims in the Law on Criminal Procedure as well as in the Law on Courts. Therefore, in this law, it is proposed that the jurisdiction of the county courts be complemented by these courts to carry out and support witnesses and victims in court and to carry out international assistance tasks in the proceedings under their jurisdiction. It is also proposed that a department of support for witnesses and victims in court be established in the affairs of the county court's administration. County courts will act in accordance with these changes as of 1 November 2009. In order to ensure direct communication with the judicial authorities within the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to join the full membership of the European Union to establish a system in the county courts as central authorities for receiving, or to send legal aid applications in criminal matters as well as to transmit, or to receive the execution of a European arrest warrant as well as a warrant for the provision of property and evidence. The provisions of this law concerning the proposed amendments will apply after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership. The Republic of Croatia has also been properly involved in cooperation mechanisms under European security and defence policy as well as in cooperation with Eurojust, which is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia under Chapter 31 – Foreign Security and Defence Policy. Since the Ministry of Justice was called on during 2007 to engage in these activities with the aim of assuming the involvement and judicial officials as well as judicial officers and deputies and officials of the prison system in peacekeeping missions, it was necessary in this Law on Courts to provide for the possibility that judges may also be referred to peacekeeping missions. It is also an important paper in this law that the current Article 59 of the Law states that when courts of the second degree make different decisions on the same fact and legal matter, and no exceptional legal remedy is allowed, a state lawyer and a party may apply for the uniform application of the law to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to examine whether such decisions threaten the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. We propose this law to delete this provision, because we have simply regulated this issue by amending the Law on Procedural Procedure in such a way that we have significantly extended the conditions and the reasons for submitting the review to the Supreme Court and in some ways I would say that we have opened the door wide, the Supreme Court door. Since the practice also showed that certain judges did not fully comply with the obligation of Article 97 of the Law, to provide complete and accurate information in time on their property situation, on the property of the spouse and minor children, we complete this provision in such a way that, in the event that the judge does not provide information in time, the Ministry of Justice will call on the judge to submit the requested information within 15 days and, if not within this period, the Minister of Justice will initiate a strict case against the judge. This proposal also suggests that in the event of the courts being joined by the presidents of those courts, the office of presidents should be terminated and it is proposed that the justice minister of one of these courts or the judge of the higher court be appointed in accordance with the provisions of this law for a period of no longer than one year. It is also proposed that, in the event of the merger of court officials and subsistence officers of those courts, they be taken over in accordance with the provisions of the Law on civil servants and general labour regulations. Also in the debate on the first reading of this proposal, the relevant committees as well as the representatives were given observations and should have been incorporated into the final proposal. The observations and proposals referred to Article 97 which indicates the obligation of the judges to submit a report on their assets, and was not allowed to, unless the judge fulfils this obligation to refer to it as a violation of the judicial obligation. The hearing also noted Article 102, which provides that the President of the Supreme Court may relocate a judge to another court of the same degree in the event of suspension or reshuffle. However, this provision was not defined as being considered a reshuffle of the court. Therefore, definitions of this law have been given which is a reshuffle, which is what we consider a reshuffle. In view of the comments made to the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements, the articles for this second reading shall be amended. Article 97(4), therefore, provides for a commitment if the judge fails to comply with his obligation to provide information on the property, the Minister of Justice means that the judge may be subject to a strict procedure. Article 102(2) lays down the meaning of the reshuffle of the court. The reshuffle shall include the merger and separation of courts, the change in the internal structure of the court, and the change in the number of judges required in accordance with and in accordance with the framework criteria for the work of judges. The final proposal for this law adds paragraph 2 to Article 107, which states that the conduct of a judge contrary to the basic principles of the Code of Justice ethics, which damages the reputation of the judicial duty, constitutes a stupendous act. It was wanted to point out in particular that the judge is obliged by his conduct to maintain the dignity of the judicial profession. It also respects the provisions of Article 22 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitutional Act on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities in the Final Proposal of this Act complements Article 117 in such a way as to ensure that the adoption of judicial officers and subsistences into courts will also take into account the representation of members of national minorities, and as already settled for judges by the provision of Article 74 of this Act. All proposals and opinions have been fully accepted and incorporated into the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. The provisions of this law relating to adaptation and compliance with the acquis of the European Union. It will take effect on the day of the Republic of Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union. For a second reading, so the remarks that were made were we put in the final proposal and we propose to the Parliament to bring it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15083	Thank you. Legislative committees, the judiciary. The chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15084	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the 11th session held on 14 July 2008, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 10 July 2008. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent body pursuant to Article 73 of the Law. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. In its opening statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the applicant fully accepted the proposals and opinions set out in the first reading. The most important differences with the solutions to the draft laws are in the following. No report on the property of the judge constitutes a breach of the judicial obligation and is subject to a strict procedure. It clearly determines the meaning... Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The conduct of the judge against the foundations and principles of the Code of Justice Ethics is a stupendous act. The powers of the Minister of Justice to remove doubts in interpreting the provisions concerning the appointment of the President of the Courts in the retrial are regulated. By respecting the provision of Article 23 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The constitutional law on the protection of the rights of national minorities shall be complemented by the provisions of the law in such a way as to ensure that national minority representations are taken into account in the reception of court officials and subsistence officers. In the debate, members of the board unanimously supported the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. The Committee on Justice unanimously voted in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15085	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15086	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the Law on Courts in the second reading after the summer analysis has been carried out. The comments of the Ministry of Justice have been received. Amendments to the Law on Courts are mainly in the case of requests coming from the European Union, and most importantly: Complementary to the jurisdiction of the County Courts to carry out and support witnesses and victims of criminal offences in a court of 1. 11. In 2009, the obligation of the County Courts from the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union to establish the system necessary for international legal assistance in criminal proceedings is established, the application of the principle of mutual inter-state recognition of decisions on the withdrawal of property, once again from the date of accession of Croatia to the European Union, provides for the possibility to refer judges of the international peace mission to the public vote of all members of the judicial councils at the sittings. I remind the majority of the opposition here in the Assembly four months ago reacted strongly to the abolition of 40 percent of the courts as the first measures offered by the government to the Parliament in the context of judicial reform. Because removing anything in particular where justice has been shared to citizens for over a century should be the result of a careful, detailed comprehensive analysis of why we are changing something, how much change does it cost, what are the positive effects of change? Cut, surgery, blood must be the last, not the first healing procedure. Before the cuts, we need to get an analysis, a scan, a diagnosis of the disease, some other medications, and the knife comes at the end. The abolition of courts was literally the last measure in the area of justice that we should discuss in the House in the context of judicial reform. Before that, we should get the concept, strategy, objectives, deadlines and enforcement measures in the reform of the judiciary, which would make it clear and desirable for some courts to have to be abolished. Although our criticisms have gone wrong, the public, Europe but, for God's sake and general logic, forced the Ministry of Justice to deliver to the Parliament changes to some other essential judicial laws, and now through a united insight and debate, we can finally see what this government in its 5th year of working in the package is going to do to sort out the situation in the judiciary, not to pick up a little bit here, a little bit there, and we don't see the intention, the strategy, all the measures that the government intends to restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system. Or at least a negative perception that he's causing in public. So we started or concluded discussions on the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam, on the Law on Monetary Compensation of Victims of Crimes, on the Law on Criminal Procedure, on the Law on Criminal Procedure, on the Law on Attorneyship, and now on the Law on Courts in which we saw some normative solutions proposed by the Croatian People's Party in order to simplify and speed up judicial proceedings as one of the fundamental problems in judicial reform. For example, conditions are created for more orderly and faster delivery of calls to natural and legal persons for court. The right of a second-degree court not to return cases to a first-degree court for a decision but to decide for itself if it considers that a first-degree decision is not correct. Easier sanctioning of persons who delay court proceedings by abuse of procedural powers is possible. Municipal courts single out disputes between craftsmen, merchants and companies. The possibility of a standstill throughout the process is being introduced and a peaceful solution to the dispute will in the future have to be offered by the State's Attorney's Office before a lawsuit is brought on behalf of the State. The court's been suspended and a prosecutor's investigation is being initiated. The preparation for the debate is simplified. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The measures of the judicial review shall be regulated in order to uniformise the case-law. A good start, but in that rhythm of normative measures should continue. It is necessary to relieve courts of cases which are not in their nature judicial as land-book and executive. Faster information and financial motivation of land-book employees are needed to take care of land-based books. You can take that literally. The dusty books should disappear into the archives. Completely let the computer's place go. The implementation plan has also led to shifts but not enough, so further amendments to the Executive Act are needed to reduce the enforcement procedure so that creditors can live safer, breathe full lungs. We live in difficult times especially for workers, so it is necessary to establish specialised labour law courts in order to effectively protect the most vulnerable category in the market category of workers. Lawyer's tariffs shall not be interest rates and shall be allowed to detimise several years of litigation. Public notebook tariffs are also the subject of citizens' anger. Out of one interest with the need for average knowledge, we have created a very lucrative monopoly that also causes an unwarranted set of legal protections. But we will not reform the judiciary with only the normative measures. The measures of human nature are extremely important because only judicial officials can truly reform the judiciary. The personnel are the beginning and end of every reform because without quality personnel there is no quality justice. In the judiciary as well as in the administration, the criteria of the competition should be imitated. Promote the most successful and eliminate the failures. The principle is the same. In order to eliminate the incapacitated from the judiciary and promote capable foundations of objective criteria, it is necessary to introduce monitoring and setting objective criteria for the work of judges which would be the basis for the appointment of judges to several courts, but also for the resolution of those who do not satisfy their quality and quantity of work. It is necessary to redefine the framework criteria for the work of judges. Minimum number of cases solved, minimum acceptable number of items abolished, exceptions to that rule and others. In the election of judges to a senior court, candidates would be ranked according to objective criteria. The President of the Court would be obliged to monitor the results of all judges' work. When he notices information about the inadequacy or insufficient quality of the work of a particular judge, he is required to report it to the State Judicial Council for the purpose of considering his resolution from the judicial post. These are the personnel measures that should be imposed on judges, solve them systematically from the outside. If the Ministry of Justice establishes these mechanisms, the internal staff problem among judges will be resolved, and this is a problem of responsibility that was well detected by fellow Josipovic. He manifests himself in the Czech solidarity of judges in the elections and in determining responsibility for work and says that today good and not bad judges are guilty of the situation in the judiciary because they do not use their professional and moral authority to force quality but to cover less good colleagues. The measures of human nature must include obligations, not only the goodwill of education of permanent professional training of judges and state lawyers. And maybe you should take a step further and get all the lawyers to permanent education and professional background checks. Many thousands of kunas would then remain in the pockets of the citizens of our country, not in the bills of lawyers or in the accounts of the state for paying excess court costs because of the ignorance of one of the participants in the judicial process. Of course, the story of justice and its happy ending has not only the beating must have a carrot. Even if it was just that human minimum in salary adequate to professional, judicial expertise and responsibility. Small salaries in the judiciary open up space for corruption. The judge must have a salary that will provide him with an average existence. Our judges are leaving the courts, going to the lawyers' office, or to the public notebooks. Who's gonna stay? We must prevent further catastrophic negative selection in the judiciary. That won't work with nine thousand kunas of salary or the inability to get an apartment. The courts are leaving the best, prominent who were well-known of rights and procedures or those who entered the judiciary with the best grades and recommendations and on which the judiciary should rely in the future. They leave due to lack of income and other benefits and leave both frustrated and perceived by citizens about the corruption of the judiciary and the image that they are on duty for the state of society. The judiciary cannot be solved as Croatia's biggest problem and in the perception of the European Union and in the perception of our citizens in state finances as the last hole in the play. So over the past four years, 463 million kunas have been invested in the judiciary as much as a handball hall. The reform of the judiciary will not be resolved, and it is necessary both for the work of disappointed Croatian citizens and for the establishment of trust in the Croatian economy. Two months ago, when we received the Proposed Code on Criminal Procedure, we thought that it would blow new winds into financing the needs of the judicial system, because in the evaluations and sources of the necessary means to implement the laws, it was extremely precise in which needs and what years the money would have to be invested when we passed the Criminal Procedure Act. Adaptation of premises in police stations, training of crime police, information equipment, setting up new jobs, purchase of vehicles and other technical equipment, professional training all in particular for the Ministry of Justice, especially for the Ministry of Justice. The amount for the implementation of the law lists 171 million 444 thousand 574 kuna 44 June. The amount I read was to be able to say that someone has made an effort to predict both the smallest shop and the minimum cost in the law enforcement process and then we get the Law on Courts, which among other things regulates that special departments are formed in county courts, which provide support to witnesses and victims in court, and then the assessment of the funds needed to implement the law says that the state budget does not need to provide any funding. Of course, after that, there remains a bitter suspicion that it is only a declarative provision that Europe insists on, because how to form special judicial departments if you don't need any money for it. In the debate on the proposed amendments to the Court Act in the first reading, a proposal has been made to establish and departments for working disputes with these departments of support and assistance to witnesses and victims in court in order to be faster and more efficient and to give them special attention and priority. Unfortunately, we can't see that the bill promoter listened or wanted to hear us. For this second reading, the legislator of these amendments has amended Article 97 by which a judge who does not comply with the obligation to report on his or her property, the property of a spouse and underage children should be suspended until that obligation has been fulfilled. He changed it in a way that this disobedience of the judge could result in a strict procedure against him. This example corrects some of the legal provisions in the second readings I point out because the proposer by the Judges' Association on 30 May, so before sending the Law to us for the first reading received a comment on this provision, i.e. that it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because the right to pay cannot be denied for that reason and that this provision has already been disputed in the Constitutional Court. This shows that the Ministry of Justice has not given due attention, let alone a debate on the positions of a judicial organisation that should be a pillar of judicial reform. The Association of Judges has proposed a different regulation of the powers of the Judicial Council in Article 37(1), which states that it proposes candidates for the Presidents of the Justice Minister who then elects the President of the Court between them. The judges suggest that the Judicial Council propose a minister to confirm a candidate for the President of the Court. Judges believe that the Judicial Council as an important body of the judiciary self-government must have responsibility, but also a dominant influence on the choice of the President of the Court. Their interpretation of their proposal is interesting. I quote: "This change simply gives rise to the criticism that the presidents of the courts are named according to political criteria, with the prevailing and unauthorized influence of the executive authority." The end of the quote. Of course, the Justice Department preferred to choose an option in which the Judiciary Council proposes more candidates for the president of the court, and the minister then chose one. The Association of Judges is not satisfied with the abolition of paragraph 7 of Article 39 of the existing Law on Courts which repeals the provision that first-degree courts with more than 50 judges from their judges elect 6 members of the Judicial Council who, together with members of the Judicial Council elected in a higher court, constitute the Judicial Council which makes decisions relating only to that court. The judges believe that this was a good solution and that the existing provision should in no case be deleted, because it puts in the same and fair position both the judges of the large court and the judges of smaller courts. By erasing this provision, the judge of the smaller municipal court may welcome the possibility of being a member of the Judicial Council. They find it unfair and impractical. The Association of Judges considers that if the Ministry of Justice insists, however, and insists that the provisions should be abolished by blocking the work of the Judicial Councils for at least three months. Contrary to the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that the Judicial Council must decide by public vote. The judges believe that Article 48, which speaks, must read: “The judicial council decides at the session most of the votes of all members by public vote, except when the law is not different. When the Judicial Council decides on a proposal for the President of the Court, the decision shall be taken by means of a secret vote by a majority of the votes of all members." Here, these are the main professional objections of the Association of Judges to the proposed Law on Courts which are not adopted by the Ministry of Justice. In the end, regardless of the missed chance of the law, the Law on Courts incorporates professional observations of judges and some proposals for parliamentary opposition, the Club of the Croatian People's Party will support these amendments to the Law on Courts because they bring at least some logical changes as a contribution to judicial reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15087	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. The law itself absolutely needs to be supported, because almost all the institutes that are in it, are in it and which are elaborated in it relate to the changes that need to be made and related and regulate the organisation and functioning of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, all of the amendments we find in this final draft of the law, which followed as a result of the debate and the comments on the draft law in the first reading, are to be supported. I think it's very important to highlight them in the next order. The first or first intervention relates to a change that we associate with the provisions of Article 122. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In that provision, the Constitution which directly determines or discusses that the judge cannot be relocated against his will unless the court or reshuffles the court in accordance with the law. The proposed law lays down the meaning or meaning of the reshuffle of the court under which it is meant, that both the merger and separation of courts and the change in the internal structure of the court and the change in the number of judges required in the court comply with the framework criteria for the work of the judge. So we also find that definition and the definition of what we're reshuffled by the court in concrete situations. Secondly, it is prescribed that the conduct of judges in accordance with the basic principles of the Code of Judicial Ethics, which damages the reputation of judicial duty and constitutes a stupendous act which really wishes to highlight the judge's duty to maintain the dignity of the judicial profession by his conduct. Thirdly, those comments related to Article 22 were also respected. The Constitutional Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, which stipulates that the reception of judicial officers and subsistences in courts shall also take into account the representation of members of national minorities. It is important to note that, in the final proposal, the law regulates and develops or determines the working legal status of officials and subsistences in those courts where the merger takes place, in such a way that, in the event of the merger of courts, officials and subsistences are actually taken over, but are taken over in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Servants and, of course, the general rules on labour. To welcome is the solution that regulates the situation when the opinion of the general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is not positive for any candidate. It is about appointments, therefore on judicial duties when the Minister of Justice can appoint the President of the Court between the candidates proposed by the Judicial Council, i.e. that the Minister of Justice, unless appointed by the President of the Court, may initiate a new procedure for the appointment. The paper is also that before the appointment decision is made, the minister will hold talks with all candidates. Furthermore, of all other amendments in terms of amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, I would like to point out 4 in my opinion of the basics, which in the extreme line and characterise the whole spirit of these changes in terms of better regulation, organisation and functioning of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia, and we have had some opportunities to hear about this in the debates so far. In fact, the expropriation of Article 59 of the existing law in terms of the possibility of intervention on those court decisions when we have different judgments, namely different decisions, and it is a matter of killing or solving the same fact and legal matter when an extraordinary legal remedy was not allowed. The second situation is, therefore, the work or other institute and the way in which the judicial councils decide when it comes to giving opinions on fellow judges in the competition procedure for certain judicial functions. Thirdly, the submission of data on the property of judges, so valid and timely fulfillment of property cards, which we also had the opportunity to hear a lot in previous discussions and finally the way leaders are appointed, so the presidents of the merged courts in light of the new law adopted. So let's take one. Thus far, the current Article 59 of the Law provides for the possibility of making requests for the uniform application of the law to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in the sense of making different decisions on the same factual and legal matter in situations where an extraordinary legal remedy is not allowed. In such situations, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, was prescribed to examine whether such decisions threatened the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. By erasing these provisions, the provision of a new regulation is fully affirmed, i.e. the Law on litigation in relation to the audit, i.e. the revision as an extraordinary remedy. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Procedural Procedure will be able to resolve the above-mentioned situation, and will certainly be resolved in a more procedural and material way in a more qualitative way in this respect by the uniform application of the law, or normative frameworks will be created to work this out as such as such an institute in a more quality way. As far as this other situation is concerned, so in practice so far, it is about the work of the Judicial Councils. In the current practice of the work of the Judicial Councils, so-called a secret vote, including when it comes to giving opinions on fellow judges, therefore to colleagues, and all in the sense of their candidacy for a particular second or higher judicial post, function or duty. As a number of situations have occurred in practice where these opinions have often been given in an inadequate way and based on unclear criteria, I would stress unclear criteria and arguments. To welcome it is a new, therefore legal solution to give such opinions at meetings of the Judicial Councils, but publicly explained. It is also intended to welcome the provision which regulates that the Judicial Council delivers an assessment of the conduct of the judicial duty to the State Judiciary Council and the Ministry of Justice in the procedure of appointing a judge to another court and when the judge is appointed to a judicial duty permanently. Of course, it is also to support that provision that regulates the way in which the property data of the judges is undermined, even in the context of the initiation of proceedings for suspending the payment of the judge's salary. It is a situation where the judge does not carry out his obligation, so I repeat not to carry out his obligation by law established, the Ministry of Justice is calling on the judge to provide the requested information within 15 days or to complete the data delivered. If the judge does not supply the requested information within that time limit, the Ministry of Justice shall inform the President of the Court of Justice of this matter, and all in the sense of the possibility, i.e. the initiation of proceedings for the suspension of the pay of the judge himself. The entry into force of new rules in the field of the judiciary certainly in practice we have such a situation that the presidents of individual courts will stop acting their duty to bring the courts together and this regulation is regulated in a good way, in a good way. Therefore, the law states that the Minister of Justice will authorise one judge of these courts or the judge of a higher court to perform the affairs of the judicial administration for a period of no more than a year until the President of such a joint court is appointed. Since it is about amendments and additions to a really important law, therefore the Law on Courts and that all these interventions, in terms of amendments and additions, are really made to make the judiciary or the judicial system better, easier to operate and which really improve and the organisation and functioning of the judicial system, are directly in line with all these regulations or provisions of the law that we had the opportunity to pass in this High House, and all those laws in the field of justice that we have already passed. This is a quality regulation that absolutely needs to be supported and is precisely why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community gives it its full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15089	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15090	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In view of the progress made and the addition of the proposed law in relation to first reading as well as the content of the proposed law, the HSS Club also gives support to this Law on Courts. Because the Law on Courts clearly provides certain solutions and this law implements certain changes governing the organisation and functioning of the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. In order to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia governing the organisation and functioning of the judicial system with the regulations of the European Union, certain amendments should be made to the Law on Courts, which is what we are doing here. In addition to harmonising this law with the regulations of the European Union for us, an additional reason is the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts to which the provisions of this law will also apply, and already here is this law we have already adopted. We will repeat some of our views from the first reading, because we believe that the proposed solutions are good and that they contribute to the more successful work of the courts. This harmonisation will result in greater harmonisation and enforcement of legal property in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, as these amendments and additions to the Law on Courts are incorporated and contain six Council Regulations of Europe. By implementing certain projects, the Ministry of Justice assumed the obligation to install rules on the rights of witnesses and victims in the Law on Criminal Procedure as well as in the Law on Courts. Therefore, this law also proposes solutions to supplement the jurisdiction of the county courts by implementing and supporting witnesses and victims in court and performing international assistance tasks in the proceedings under their jurisdiction. In order for these affairs in the affairs of the judicial administration to be successfully conducted, it is also proposed to set up a support department for witnesses and victims in judicial proceedings within the county courts. We are also obliged to make certain appropriate adjustments in order to comply with the Council of Europe's decision on the arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States, as well as the decision to carry out the order for the provision of property or evidence in the European Union. As a good solution, we also see the provision of direct communication with judicial authorities within the European Union as establishing a system in county courts as central authorities for receiving, or sending out legal aid applications in criminal matters. We also support solutions that allow the involvement of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation mechanisms under European security, as well as defence policies, as it enables the involvement of judicial officials as well as judicial officers and deputies in peacekeeping missions. The HSS Club supports and proposes to amend this law and to vote by the Judicial Councils where it moves from a secret vote to a public vote. The specificisation of Article 97 of this Act relating to the provision of complete and accurate data on the property as the property of a spouse and underage children is equating judges with state officials and will greatly change public perception of judicial corruption. The sanctioning of non-implementation of Article 97 is also a step forward in equating judicial officials with other officials. In all of this, and given the additions and additions made in relation to the first reading of this law, the Croatian Peasant Party club supports the proposed text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15091	Thank you. SDP's club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Courts, noting that some of the solutions are here, which we have warned from the SDP Club for many years, and here in the final proposal is now headed, but there are also some things that we believe the applicant should do differently because in a direct manner the ministry and this person of the lower rank are elected in the power of even the presidents themselves. First of all, I would like to say that the seriousness of implementing a law is seen in whether the state is really behind what it says. There is no doubt that this change is on the trail, or one of the wheels in judicial reform, and it is indeed on the normative agenda. But if the proposer here claims in the law, and so it is, that this final bill in the county courts will set up a special office to provide support for witnesses in court proceedings, and when he says that the assessment here in providing the necessary means to implement this law does not need to provide any additional funds, then the question of the seriousness of the implementation of this fundamentally good final bill is raised. So to courts that continue to be burdened not only by the lags but also by a huge number of new cases that come together every year to our judicial bodies, we give them almost every law, and in this own way, a whole series of new tasks, and we have not provided additional resources. However, there is one and a decision not to hire new people in the judiciary. So now the question is, what's going to happen to these other items, how are they going to be solved? This proposal for a final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts shall pay particular attention to the need or compensation of parties and the procedure of those who have not received satisfaction within a specified period. But if the necessary resources and the people who will do so are not provided, then the question is at all further functioning and the application of this law. Therefore, with good intentions and with relatively good law, there is a danger that such a law is blasphemed in practice and that it further discourages the citizens and that it further undermines the reputation of the judicial authority and thus already lashed with the citizens. And then that's one serious threat and our big grudge. Therefore, the judiciary of no country is cheap and here you see the state should then provide such means that the effect of that authority would be as its constitutional task first and foremost. The government needs to, the executive power needs to be perceived as not the only and unique authority in this country. That, in addition to the legislation that is often diminished in different ways, it is not sufficiently taken into account that the judicial authority is part of the government, as a special branch of the government under which the executive authority does not have a supremation, but has additional obligations. It has obligations primarily to ensure the coherent and orderly functioning of that system. To ensure conditions, but not to get involved and into their business. Therefore, these fundamental settings remain highly questionable and with good law, the question is whether it can be applied. Not to mention, a few months ago, here is a vote here in our House of Areas and Courts Law with only 76 votes. As a SDP club, we have submitted to the Constitutional Court a request for the constitutionality of the law, but it was passed with 76 votes not because the majority of parliament had not enough representatives, so as not to be able to vote with the necessary majority, but rather to take so little account of the judicial authority that it is at all a constituent part of the government and, under the constitution, an even part of the government with the executive authority, where, under the terms of Article 82. The constitution speaks of how the structure, the part-circuit and the way the state bodies work is adopted exactly in a manner, according to the procedures of the adoption of organic laws. There's so much about it as even being ready to do what we say, that we want to praise Europe that we've done something, but the question is whether this is going to work that way. We are expressing serious doubt and concern at the SDP club from these unmistakable material facts. Something concrete to say about certain provisions themselves. First of all, it's commendable to cut deadlines, when complaints, therefore, and appeal deadlines from 15 days to 8 days. First of all, those who appeal to the Supreme Court for the slow work of lower judicial authorities. However, the question is, what are these deadlines like? Are those just instructional deadlines? It reads 8 days, 15 days, in the Law on the Procedural Procedure, so in that last novel that was unanimously made here, that decisions by court must be made and sent to the parties after the main debate was concluded within 15 days, and in some proceedings and within 8 days. There are still people who claim that the debate is closed, that there has been no decision and nothing for several months. These are serious failures, illegalities, illegality of conduct. It does not have to be cumulatively filled, i.e. how long it takes not to make a decision in order to be closely fit. Then the possibility of political manipulation, perhaps failure, one-time failure can lead to resolution, and in the same things and multiple similar failures, dozens of cases can be tolerated. And that's the form of political then manipulation, or what in public is causing political manipulation with people who work in the judiciary, whether judges or state lawyers, if it's not in the law, then it's strictly and prescribed. Where he doesn't cause a particular interpretation. Unfortunately, we really need laws that don't cause much interpretation, because if interpretation occurs, then we have a diverse and colorful situation. In any case, to welcome this fact that when the Council of Judges decides in the sittings by majority vote, it does so by public vote. And that's why I don't agree with that fellow who supported the Association of Judges who sees a step backwards in this. It was well imagined, but who could remember that when the judges discuss their colleague who should advance everything into superlative talks because they can't say otherwise, because this colleague has the best norm that's seen how everyone else might be. And when they go to a secret vote, such a candidate often gets one, and often not a single vote. So how can such people trust, what decisions do they make? And that's why it's good to keep that kind of thing public. And I welcome this provision, which is finally, we've talked about it for a long time here for a few years, and it's a good thing she's stuck here like this. Often a fateful power in which we at the SDP club really advocate their untouchableness in these fateful matters, but we ask that they bear some responsibility as a power. It can't be if the minister, if the procedures for the appointment of the president of the court are repeated, so when the highest court hearing, the general session of the Supreme Court decides which, therefore, the court is now gently going that exactly the minister must obey their opinion. They run away from that responsibility and then give the minister an extradition as Pontius Pilate washes their hands of it. That's inadmissible. On the other hand, they ask for authority, and when they get it, they don't take that responsibility. And here I don't need to stutter between us different political options. We're looking for judicial independence, but we're also looking for the taking of such a responsibility. It is the only provision when the Supreme Court when the judicial authority can influence and directly elect a person at the head of a court. They almost never took that responsibility. And that's why it's a good thing things got rid of things like this. Here you see now, and in these amendments, that is, in this final proposal now came, it came, after all, lost a lot of time, wandering. There was also a need for constitutional intervention of the Constitutional Court so that pears and apples could not be mixed, that there was something inconceivable to mix municipal courts and infringement courts. And that it finally gave up on such a single project. That's what the courts of law warned about. That's what we at the SDP Club warned about. We have also filed a constitutional action or a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of that provision. It seems to me that the legislator has changed the norm before, and then there is an easier job for the Constitutional Court as regards both the lawsuits and the constitutional assessment requirements that we have clearly overloaded the Constitutional Court, so he still does not find time to resolve these demands, or seems to be resolved on his own in time. So the question arises when we are talking here about the independence and influence of the judicial authority and the acquisition of trust among citizens because the authority of one decision must depart from the authority of the institution or persons acting there. It can't be that counsellor, senior advisor or even a regular counsellor at the Ministry has been appointed to the president of a court. It can't be. So let's do the same in that segment those parts of the administration, the administrations in the judiciary. The President of the Court therefore carries out the administration, the affairs of the administration in that judicial body. It cannot therefore be that the ministry which is in charge of the administration and the efficient functioning of the system itself and in that part alone as the service of the judicial authorities such a person has such a rank cannot simply be. Here you must find here even if the final proposal is another solution because it is humiliating for the President of the County Court. That the counselor gave him lessons. What kind of reputation would that judge president have, first of all, with his fellow judges and then with the citizens. To lower his rank, a lower rank invites him to order. It can't be. It could possibly be an assistant or a secretary of state or a minister himself. In such, in such business. It's because, all of these standards, we have to make sure that it's a sensitive government that's usually being rocked and that needs to be further encouraged and not discouraged. That's why it needs to be delicate here. I will warn of a serious situation that our media have been writing about lately: "The courts of the unsuspecting women have tied their hands". So something happens again that was constant until 2000. That courts can't work because they don't have the resources. I can't do art. I can't pay off witnesses. So their hands are tied. Every procedure costs the state dearly. This is how the "Free Dalmatia" announces that in this procedure, the President of the Council asked the Ministry to grant him additional funds for art. That he was responsible from the Ministry, literally said, "No way." Likewise, in proceedings before the County Court in Split, which is otherwise often criticised for its slowness, after seven years of waiting for the proceedings against nine indictees to fake disability pensions, but that the Ministry of Justice refused to finance the art because that amount was too high. It was often an alibi not to be tried in those cases. I know personally that at that time we provided additional funds from the reserve and had to write that 800,000 kuna literally for this particular subject of economic crime at the County Court in Osijek so that the courts would not spend it on other skills and say that there are no funds in these very difficult cases of economic crime. All economic crime procedures are related to skills that are not cheap but please be nice if they are too expensive is not far from Austria either. Well, let the market run there, too. We have to turn to it because indeed 800, million kunas give for some art and so, just so much without any elaborate I think it's crazy and I think it's stupid and we need to turn to foreign skills that are cheaper but the state has to provide those funds. Perhaps this morning, Madam Secretary Lovrin gave her best criticism of her government when she said when she came to the Ministry that she had just found millions of kuna in the capital investment position for the prison system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15093	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go. Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, yesterday, Mr. President of the European Commission told us that the conditions for judicial negotiations have not yet been met, so I am glad that we started our autumn session with two points, with Eurojust, and now with this one showing our willingness to show that this body shows the political will for quality judicial reform and, without a doubt, the agreement with Eurojust and this Law on Courts brings this quality, which shows us the political will to carry out justice reform in a way to restore the trust of our citizens in the judiciary, and that this assessment is much greater than it is now because I must remind you that we are precisely on the basis of the Ministry of Justice which ordered one survey to see that the citizens believe that the most corrupt politicians and judges in Croatia. And if we have the strength of a corrupt politician and a corrupt judge, the citizens think it's the very top of organised crime. So these two points that we support here today show our political will, but there is that problem that is present in our society that after this political will, after the rules that we adopt when we go into the implementation of all these rules in practice everything somehow stops and doesn't reach the crown that we should have for citizens to regain confidence in both politics and politicians and that is particularly and very important in the judiciary. They say corruption in Croatia is a problem that is not considered enough. That there are no concrete results, that investigations don't end, that every investigation goes unguarded. And unfortunately, that's how it is. I remained shocked to hear that at the moment more than 8 hundred cases in the area of corruption and organised crime are waiting to go into court procedure because the part that was the responsibility of USKOK and DORH has ended. However, they stand and wait for these items to begin to be resolved. I repeat more than 8 hundred objects. At the same time, the Supreme Court has decided that all cases with elements of corruption and organised crime have priority in resolving. I therefore appeal to the Ministry of Justice that this particular example of the 800 items waiting to be resolved and that the investigation comes to an end, which is a final verdict, the only remedy for fighting corruption and organised crime in Croatia. For example, the “Maestro” that has lasted for a year is not an honor for any of us, as it simply shows that investigations do not come to an end. We also heard from a colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Therefore, it is unacceptable that due to the lack of money in courts for judicial-medical skills cases that have finally come to the procedure do not come to an end. Thus, this example of the Split court, which means that disability pensions have been going on for 7 years and now stands again because the court has no money for judicial and medical skills, and the Ministry of Justice does not want to give funds to bring the process to an end. And of course, what is very important and what this Law on Courts particularly points out, which is moral integrity, expertise, credibility of judges who really must be one moral vertical in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, young people are leaving the court right now because they do not see their future, and the negative staff selection will certainly not contribute to the return of trust in the judiciary, so I appeal to the Ministry of Justice to move from word to action and to begin to implement both the Strategy and the Action Plan against Corruption adopted here, which has several elements very important precisely in the area of justice so that our fight with corruption and the return of trust in us politicians and also the judiciary will go much faster than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15095	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15096	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before considering the differences between the solutions proposed by the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Supplements to the Law on Courts, I would like to stress that the importance of these amendments and additions is contained in the following. First, the proposed amendments and additions propose compliance with the acquis in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters in such a way that relevant regulations of the Council of Europe are incorporated into the Law on Courts. Second, the jurisdiction of the county courts is complemented by the way that county courts support witnesses and victims in court and carry out international assistance tasks in the affairs of their jurisdiction. It is also proposed to set up a department of support for witnesses and victims in court proceedings in the affairs of the judicial administration of the county courts. This proposal is in line with the project to support victims of criminal offences, but also in the context of negotiations on full membership in the European Union. The Republic of Croatia must adapt its legislation in a way that ensures support for witnesses and victims in criminal proceedings. In addition, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to joining the full membership of the European Union to establish a system in the County Courts for receiving and sending legal aid applications in criminal matters, receiving and executing arrest warrants and warrants for the provision of property and evidence. Third, the protection of the right to trial shall be complemented within a reasonable period of time in such a way as to ensure that the procedure for the protection of the right to trial is carried out within a reasonable period of time, with the appropriate application of the rules on extra-party proceedings, as a rule, without holding the hearing. Fourthly, newspapers are proposed in the work of the judicial councils. In fact, the Judicial Council so far decided at their meetings by a secret vote of all members of the council. However, in the direction of transparent treatment, it is proposed that the judicial councils in the sittings decide by a public vote. Fifthly, it is proposed to completely delete Article 59. The law on courts which are prescribed when courts of the second degree make different decisions on the same fact and legal matter, and no exceptional legal remedy is allowed. That a State lawyer and party may apply for a uniform application of the law to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, to examine whether such decisions endanger the uniform application of the law and the equality of the law. This provision shall be deleted in full, because this issue will be settled by the draft of the Law on the Procedural Procedure,... The speaker doesn't understand....an extraordinary legal remedy, an audit, will address the issue of uniform application of the law. The sixth, Article 105 of the Law, which stipulates that a judge may also be referred to international missions, and a special regulation will lay down the conditions for sending a judge to an international mission and the International Court of Justice. Seven, it is proposed to initiate a suspension procedure to pay the judge who does not provide accurate information on his or her property status as a spouse and underage children. If the judge does not provide the necessary information in time, the Justice Department will invite him to submit the requested information within 15 days. If it fails to provide information within that period, the Ministry of Justice will inform the President of the Court of Justice in order to initiate the procedure in order to suspend payment to the judge. Eight, the proposal stipulates that the presidents of the courts cease the duties of the President of the Court when it comes to the merger of the courts. In that case, the Minister of Justice will authorise one of these courts or the judge of a higher court to carry out cases of judicial administration for a period of no more than one year until the President of the Joint Court is appointed. It is also prescribed that court officials and subsistence officers shall be deployed in accordance with the Civil Service Act. After the debate was held in the Croatian Parliament, the applicant considered and adopted the comments given. Following this, the provision was complemented that unless the judge fulfils the obligation to provide information on his or her property to a spouse and a minor child that the minister of justice against that judge may initiate a strict procedure. The meaning of the reshuffle of the court is determined. The reshuffled court considers the merger and separation of courts, the change in the internal organisation of work, and the change in the number of judges required in accordance with the criteria for the work of judges. It is prescribed that the conduct of a judge contrary to the Code of Judge Ethics is a stupendous act. Different interpretations of the appointment of the President of the Court are being removed. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, this Act is complemented by the provision that the acceptance of judicial officers and subsistences in courts must also take into account the representation of members of national minorities. Finally, I am pleased to point out that the applicant accepted the proposals and opinions of the representatives and the working bodies and incorporated them into the final proposal. I therefore support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15097	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Grbic said Croatia has taken the obligation to bring its legislation into line in the area of justice. I would have been far happier if we had taken the obligation to harmonise the practice and behaviour and the work of the courts other than the law, because how else do we interpret that we constantly align Croatian laws with Europe, the Law on Courts, the Law on DSL, the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure, and then we have the situation of paying more and more damages to Croatian citizens year by year to the burden of the state budget due to the slow trial before these same Croatian courts. Then we have judges who, after the end of the drug trial, return unconvicted persons or persons for whom the courts know they have dual citizenship do not take away passports, who are tried for serious crimes. And now, in this law, in the appointment of the President of the Court, we completely delete or place on the minor importance of the opinion of the General Court in a way that the opinion of the General Court does not oblige the Minister when the President of the Court is appointed, because he can appoint the President, and if he wants to repeat the case until such opinion of the General Court is actually, if it is not positively normal, we are talking about this context, only if it is not positive, enables the Minister to appoint the President of the Court and despite the negative opinion of the General Court or if there is no such opinion. So, I'm not sure that this approach as well as the introduction of a public vote instead of a secret vote on page 10 that there was a lot of "lobbying", under quotes for individual candidates and invalid ballots, so now there will be justice without lobbying and without invalid votes when to vote publicly. Yeah, it'll be cheaper because we won't have to print a dozen tickets, that's exactly what a colleague is. So practice more, the law changes less, so we'd be better off.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15099	Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15100	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Therefore, in the second reading, we have the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. It, as has been said, addresses issues relating to the functioning and structure of courts, while harmonising with the legislation of the European Union. It is important to stress that the applicable Law on Courts contains a large number of provisions of the relevant Council of Europe regulations relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters, and these amendments and additions are about to achieve full consistency in civil and criminal matters. There is much to be said about the harmonisation and the paper of this law in the first reading, as well as the discussions that have been discussed today, so I will briefly mention only some of them. It continues, therefore, to develop a system of support for witnesses and victims of criminal offences in such a way as to place in the jurisdiction of county courts as an obligation, to provide support to witnesses and victims. This is also an obligation arising from Chapter 24. – Security, freedom and justice of negotiations for accession to the European Union. Also, in the jurisdiction of the county courts, it is proposed to complement the work of international legal assistance in criminal proceedings. It is proposed to establish a system for including legal aid applications and to send, receive and execute a European arrest warrant and a warrant for the provision of property and evidence in county courts through a special department within the judicial administration. This law also provides for the possibility of joining international missions in accordance with international obligations under European security and defence policy, with the possibility of involving judges on certain duties in international courts. I also find a good proposal to make the meetings of the Judicial Councils public because the procedure will certainly make decision-making transparent. As for the difference between the solutions proposed in the first reading and this final draft of the law, they are the result of the proposals stemming from discussions at working bodies sessions and plenary sessions during the first reading of this law and are certainly a contribution to the overall quality of the law. These were suggestions and suggestions such as predicting the possibility of launching a tight procedure against a judge who does not commit to handing over a property card. More specifically, defining the meaning of the reshuffle of the court, clarifying the provisions on the appointment of the President of the Court when the opinion of the General Court is not positive for any candidate, etc. So that's what the secretary of state talked about, and we have all these precise arguments in the materials, so I wouldn't talk about them any further, but I would say in the end that I would definitely support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15101	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15102	... The representatives of the ministry, so I hardly have anything bad to say about this law, but unfortunately I have no God-knows-what to say about the law. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Why? because such laws must always be seen in the context of reform and in the context of efforts to bring serious changes to the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. I would say that the changes that are now made in this Law on Amendments and Supplements are here, that they are good on one hand to comply with some of the requirements for entry into the European Union, but that there is actually no answer in there to a number of problems that cause the judiciary, which may be able to resolve or mitigate the law, I do not believe that the law can solve the problems, but at least by law can create conditions for some of the problems of the many that bring about the judiciary. If we look at it, and then I'm going to say what I personally think is a pity that it hasn't gotten a little deeper into this mud that we call the problems of the judiciary, the law is relatively new, actually from the fifth year for our opportunities where laws often change, but it's actually about continuity over many years and we know what the problems are. So it's not about some new circumstances, so now the legislator is not aware of the whole problem. First of all, I think it's a shame that he's been wandering around and didn't seriously get into a network of courts. And I don't mean about local jurisdiction, reducing the court's okay. It was working unfortunately with a long delay which I don't think is good. But I think the time has come to review the network of courts from a functional aspect. It seems to me that judges, in their remarks on the law or at least in discussions over the CAP, have also cited that they would like to see appeal courts. I may not personally have done it in the way they imagined it, but I think the idea of appeal courts would be much more helpful in equating court practice than in these attempts and these wanderings that we have from law to law how to solve these smutty things that really happen every day that the same factual case in front of different courts is resolved in different ways. The second thing I think is that it's been missed again and that's part of the opportunism here's more colleagues talking about it, the opportunism in the judiciary, it's a question of judges' responsibility to work. In doing so, I am not just thinking about the mere responsibility and need, unfortunately, the need to sometimes exclude someone from the judicial order, but I am thinking about the whole system that motivates education, which motivates responsible behavior, which motivates a different organisation of work than it is today. No changes of this type will lead to what we want, and that is to say, in civil debates are scheduled for three, five, six months, one year after another, so delivery late months or in criminal proceedings, which is now much less necessary to admit, outdated or major debates that are scheduled perhaps 6, 7, 8 years after the start of the eating process. So it's another major failure that I personally think should have been resolved a long time ago. And of course there is a third group that concerns whether this type of law or in procedural laws can... Mr. President, did you say anything to me? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. So whether the problems of court independence can be solved in a way that does not work, does not conflict with functionality, efficiency and accountability towards the social community. There's now an interesting initiative, they suggest to the judges punishing parties, punishing the audience if, 30 days in prison and so on. You may have seen it somewhere, maybe the judges really feel the need for it, but I have to admit that I'd rather see an initiative on how judges are determined to clear up with those in their ranks who aren't doing the job properly. I always point out that we may be unjust to judges. Often, the problems of the judiciary are actually generated before the cases come to court, to the police, to the attorney's office, to prepare the parties in the attorney's office, etc. We are unfair often, because I personally know a large number of excellent educated, honest judges, but unfortunately here's the system we have to appreciate for the overall results, according to the minority that's corrupting the impression, which we don't have the cure for. Obviously we have been trying for years, and there is no reform, unfortunately, if it continues with this kind of change of law, it will never be brought to an end, at least at that level, that the judiciary fulfils its task as citizens and Croatian society are. I personally wouldn't go, I know that both colleagues and the public bother when it goes from article to article. The law is in the second reading, I'm saying nothing particularly big about it I really don't have. My main point is what's missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15103	Thank you. Final Review of State Secretary Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15104	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to thank the representatives of the clubs, all the parliamentary deputies who discussed this law. As far as I can see, the law will have the support of all clubs and I especially thank you for that. The debate also points out by who knows which way the questions we are also aware of which we have actually been honest with us for years in the judiciary. They weren't created yesterday so we could solve them today. But when we look at just this year how many laws we've passed, how many laws we've proposed and very important for the functioning of the judiciary, then we can really see that we've made big steps forward. We are now facing the very difficult and important part of the work, which is the implementation of these laws in practice. Because a good part of what fellow Josipovic was talking about and about the delivery and the related appointment for hearings in proceedings, let's remember a few months ago we brought about amendments to the Law on Prosecution. It is the majority of the amendments that we have proposed in the Law on Procedural Procedure that go exactly in this direction to concentrate the procedure, not to diverge, to actually discipline all the participants of this procedure to carry out their obligations on time and not have these long-term procedures. For many years, too, no one has touched the network of municipal courts. We have decided to make this huge bulky network of 107 municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia as effective as possible and we have proposed a merger and to reach a number that suits us. So in this House there was also in the first reading of the Code of Criminal Procedure where we also want to make this procedure much more efficient, much faster, much more effective. The Law on trainees and the passing of a judicial exam are just going after people entering the judicial system tomorrow who will pass one quality education, which will pass one more quality process and through our judicial academy we want to get people who will actually meet all those demands of modern society, and one of the basics is the functioning of the judiciary and the functioning of the rule of law. So I thank you again, and I hope this law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15105	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. I'm interrupting the session. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 with discussion according to the agenda – Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, and the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection, Agreements and the debate on the Report of the Public Advocate, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-17-0.u15106	2. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. This is a second reading, P.Z.E. No. 90. The debate is closed, amendments submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The proposer has accepted the amendment committees and they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. This law is passed by the majority of the votes of all MPs. So it takes at least 77 votes to. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. Score. I find that most votes are 91 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone. We're going back to work. It's the third item of the agenda. 1. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law to protect the public from infectious diseases, emergency procedure first and second reading P.Z.: No. 139. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Mr Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
