ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11325	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and distinguished parliamentary representatives. We have before us a proposal for a law on contributions. The reasons for the adoption are this: harmonising with EU legislation, curbing the gray economy, new organisation of health insurance, fostering entrepreneurship and harmonising with various basic regulations that have changed over the past years. Harmonisation with EU legislation is the reason for the application of the minimum monthly base and part-time work. So far, the minimum wage has been accounted for, although part-time has been under way, contributions to health insurance, and according to European Union regulations must be accounted for according to the number of hours of work so that this law provides for both pension and health insurance to account for proportionate hours of work in the month. However, I must say that one third of the budget's revenue contributes and that they are one of the most important incomes for us, and that is why this law also prescribes certain regulations that we will also work to curb the grey economy. Thus, the basis for the calculation of contributions is set out in detail, both in the case of payments and in the case of other taxable receipts. The pay code is tied to a month's work. The basis cannot be lower than the highest amount the employer is obliged to pay to the worker, whether according to the collective contract, the labour rule, the labour contract and another new regulation, and that is the minimum wage law. Contributions come with salary payments and no later than the end of the month for the previous month. What am I saying that for? Because the method of accounting and payment of the contributions differs from the billing and payment of the salary tax, since each month contributions must be calculated according to the number of workers and the contracted salary and means to submit a salary report by the end of the month. Payments in nature are also paid until the last day of the month, but not later than the last day of the month for the previous month. In other receipts, contributions are due with the payment of these receipts. One of the most important rules to be adopted in this respect, which is a register of taxpayers with data on employers who are obliged to account for and pay contributions. So the tax administration is involved in the establishment of that register, and data control will be carried out in such a way that data will be downloaded from the Croatian Health Insurance Office on the number of registered health insurance workers and coordinated with data in the tax administration and if there are a number of registered health insurance workers compared to what was reported in the salary account will immediately be called upon by the employer to coordinate the number of registered workers. Also, in the case of a refund of sickness benefits, the condition is that contributions are paid, and then the sick leave will be returned. It is also in place of a new organisation of compulsory health insurance, before we had one fund and now two funds are the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and a new Croatian Health Insurance Institute for Health Safety at Work and this law is prescribed for this second institution, in which way and how it will be calculated and delivered. But I must point out that the rates of contributions don't change. Certain incentives for entrepreneurship have also been introduced, in a way that the first job frees payment for health insurance, health protection at work and employment until the first year of work, while volunteers are also involved. Also... certain exceptions, which is that for pensioners according to the second income would not be accounted for contributions to that income. The rest of the papers are related to the amendment of a large number of regulations so that for people under 15 years of age we would also not pay for the contributions of parents, fosterers, representatives of family households, sailors sailing in international navigation, for employees who are mobilized, married friends of diplomats and athletes. Another reason why we are going to amend this law, the law that has now been adopted in 2002 has been applied since 1.1.2003, the text of the law has been amended several times so that in 2003 a regulation has been adopted, the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements has been adopted and more than 60% of the articles have been amended compared to the first text of the law. I just have to point out that this new law is still more precise and better resolved, so also the bonds of application of this law, and also the tax administration, will be much easier to monitor the application of this law, means the way in which this law is calculated and reported. There you go, Mr. President, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11326	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Committee President, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11327	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 12 June 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament split up the draft law on contributions, with the final draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 29 May 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it on the basis of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the government's representative stressed that the application of this law creates conditions for higher payment of contributions, resulting in an increase in the revenues of the state budget at the annual level of the planned increase of 171 million kuna. However, since the proposed provisions of the law also have a social character, since the time-limits for payment of contributions are also prescribed. This base plans to reduce the revenues of the state budget at an annual level of 369 million 826 thousand kuna. It follows that the deficit of 198 million kuna will be settled in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 as this law enters into force on 1 January 2009. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament pass this law by emergency procedure. In the discussion on the Committee, the law in question was supported with the opinion that its application should have started on 1 July 2008, not just on 1 January 2009. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia explained that a series of preparations should be implemented for the implementation of this law and the proposed deadline for its adoption was realistic on 1 January 2009. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11328	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration. The Health and Social Care Committee. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. The Committee on Development and Reconstruction. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Milivo Skvortz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11329	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on contributions, with a final proposal for a law. In addition, after the adoption of the law applicable from 1 January 2003, in the first year of its application, a Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Contribution to Mandatory Insurance has already been adopted and the Act on Amendments and Supplements applicable from 1 January 2005 and has thus been amended or amended more than half of the original text of the law. Through the implementation of the negotiating position for Chapter 19. – Social policies and employment have proved necessary to amend the provisions of this law in order to implement the Council's Directive on a framework agreement on part-time work. There are other reasons for amending the applicable rules and, above all, to introduce measures that will lead to concrete results in curbing the grey economy, in order to bring the compulsory insurance system in line with the reform of the health care system and other regulations already adopted in the area of various social activities, whose provisions directly or indirectly affect the applicants and how they are determined, the payment of compulsory contributions and reporting. The basic issues to be settled by this law are the following. First, redecoration of the provisions on the application of the minimum monthly base for the calculation of contributions in relation to workers working part-time. The obligations of the employer with regard to the obligations and means of determining and paying the contributions are more clearly regulated and the offence and the sanctioning of non-accounting of mandatory relations with all forms of payment of the taxed income of workers is more precise. The obligation to keep the register of contributors and the obligation to supply data on employers and the number of employees is prescribed in order to more effectively carry out the control of compliance with the obligation to pay the contribution. The monthly basis shall not be less than the maximum amount the employer is obliged to pay to the employee under the labour contract, the Labour Regulations, the collective contract or a special regulation or any other act. And it can't be lower than the lowest monthly base for full-time work. Greater penalties are also prescribed for employers who do not account or pay contributions. An obligation under which employers will be required to demonstrate when applying for a refund of the paid salary shall be made in order to improve the payment of that contribution. This law aims to encourage the employment of persons who are employed for the first time or who have a volunteer employment contract and proposes to exempt from the obligation to pay contributions that are accounted for on the basis and are the employer's obligation for a year. The Mandatory Contribution Act will also allow for the work of pensioners, hence those who have acquired the right to pension insurance and those who carry out domestic work or secondary occupation with the use of pensions. This should improve the status of pensioners who can still deal with some kind of business activity, but also change the social attitude towards third-year people. The obligation to contribute to natural persons performing independent activities or free occupations or agriculture and forestry as complementary or secondary activity at the same time is in a working relationship, instead of income, will be determined and will pay a profit tax. This law should finally regulate the procedures and obligations which, in particular and effectively, have been imposed by the employer on the regular payment of contributions for their workers and the systematic control of all employers registered. This is one of the main measures in curbing the grey economy and necessary for any further development of the economy and one of those measures that everyone has long expected. To implement this law, it is not necessary to allocate new specific funds to burden the budget of the Republic of Croatia. If we succeed in the measures prescribed by this law to introduce effective control of the collection of compulsory contributions and to bring it to a higher level, and to cover that part of the workers working in black today in a large number of employers, unfortunately, this will necessarily lead to an increase in revenues in the state budget. For this reason, there should be no need to worry about a reduction in the revenues of the state budget, which will be due to the fact that the provisions of this law also have a social character, as it also prescribes certain exceptions to the obligation to pay for contributions. As another law that is in line with the European Union regulations in the social policy and employment section, and how important it is for us. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11330	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11331	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidents of the IRS, MPs and MPs. Our legal system is full of misunderstandings and is often incomprehensible to our citizens, they often do not understand why we are making a lot of laws, why these laws regulate certain things in a rather complicated way, which is why it is not simpler in this process to adapt to the European Union, and when we talk about the Law on Contributions, we can say that there are positive effects, because some provisions will be more clearly defined. For example, now, whether the employer hires a person on full or part-time, he pays equal contributions to health insurance, as if he works 40 hours a week. Otherwise, working part-time is an institution that has primarily been introduced due to pornic policy in the European Union. Thus, at the end of maternity leave in the European Union, mothers who wish to work and contribute to the budget of their families are given the opportunity to work several hours a day or 8 hours, 2 to 3 days a week. Such work is also ideal for older people who want to stay active, it is ideal for exceptional students or for people with special needs. In this way, the labour market is flexible, the possibility of greater employment, excluded and permanently unemployed groups in society is opened, and they are using all labour rights. While this type of employment in the European Union is common, it has not yet come to life with us. The most part-time employees are recorded in education and demining jobs. The new Law on Contributions brings important changes and a more flexible way of working. There is great help and newspapers, the possibility of part-time contributions, are paid in proportion to the time spent in the workplace. Also, employers were given motivation to hire trainees, i.e. those who seek for the first time a job, freeing from the payment of contributions to health insurance. In March 2008, 75 thousand 505 young people, between 15 and 29, sought employment. Under the new Law on Contributions, employers who decide to hire young people without work experience will not have to pay contributions to health insurance and work protection during the first year. Thus, the state will finance the employer about 17% of the cost of first-time employees. This law seeks to encourage young people, who, after primary and secondary school, are looking for their place of employment under the sun, but employers to employ those whose first job is to do so. We are often witnessing that most employers are looking for employees with work experience, and on the other hand they are not ready to be able to gain this experience. Of course, concerns are justified and those who say that some employers will try to abuse this possibility, and after one year they fire the young person they hired and take the new person for whom the state co-finances the costs, but this provision, in our opinion, needs to be approached in good faith because it is in itself positive. The law also creates conditions for the release of space to include pensioners in the process of work and in an acceptable way for employers. There is growing knowledge of labour shortages on the market, and among millions and 100,000 pensioners, there is certainly a potential quality workforce to be counted on. The novelty is also a provision under which the monthly base per salary cannot be less than the minimum amount the employer or other person is obliged to pay instead of the employer to the employee according to the Labour Treaty, according to the Labour Regulation or any other act governing the employer's obligations towards the worker, which cannot be lower than the minimum wage for full-time work. The Law on Contributions provides that banks shall notify the Office of the Tax Administration in the place where the company operates, if the employer is not at the same time with a payment order handed over a payment order. The business bank of a particular company is obliged to do so within 8 days of the day of payment of the net salary, i.e. other income with which the payment of the contribution is mandatory. If the bank did not do so, according to the bill, it would be fined at between 5 and 50 thousand kuna. The law on contributions is also an important instrument in the fight against the grey economy in the labour and employment market, which is also present in our society. On behalf of the HSS Club, we propose that articles that mention the lowest monthly base be in line with the new Minimum Payment Act, because under this law the lowest monthly base should be equal to the minimum wage. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of the Contribution Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11332	Thank you. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11333	Dear Vice President, representatives of the IRS, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that here, in essence, it is not about the new law, but about the fact that in one place, therefore, the whole current legislation relating to the matter of the contribution is united. So, first of all, this is one practical solution, which is too small in Croatia, which makes it difficult to get into the forest of regulations and therefore this proposal, like any other, which contributes to the functionality of legal regulation, deserves praise. In this legislative proposal, they are united, all amendments and additions to the basic Act on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance which occurred from the moment it entered into force. as of 1 January 2003, and we know that the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance Law of 2003, which, by amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance from 2005, is actually amended and amended and most of the original text of the law. In addition, this draft law integrates all changes which are inaugurated in the meantime by new regulations from various other areas of social activities, which directly and indirectly regulate and some questions from the domain of compulsory insurance, i.e. the rights and obligations of secured liabilities. It is a series of regulations, from the Tax on Income and Tax on Profit, through the Law on Protection and Rescue or, for example, the Law on Social Care, to the Law on crafts and the Law on Sports. In addition to these two, however, there is another very important reason why this law is passed by justifying the fact that the law is being passed by emergency procedure, although it will only be in force since 1 January 2009, therefore, for 6 months. This is the reason why national legislation on mandatory contributions to EU legislation and the creation of the necessary capacity for the adoption and implementation of the acquis of the European Union. The need to amend the provisions of the existing Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act is derived from the negotiating chapter 19, which is called Social Policy and Employment in the section governing flexible forms of work, and from Council Directive 97/81/EC of 15 December 1997 on the Framework Agreement on working part-time and which regulates insurance obligations and contributions, therefore, workers, who have a contract with the employer on working part-time. There are other important reasons that have conditioned the need to amend the existing Law on Contributions, of which a new, i.e. the re-established system of compulsory health insurance which was divided into compulsory health insurance and health care protection at work in 2006. Of course, it was wise and practical to form a new law because of everything, rather than to go to new changes and additions to the existing one. And what are the most important legal papers of this law? First of all, there are a series of provisions aimed at curbing the gray economy in the labour market. In this respect, the basis under which employers are required to calculate and pay contributions is specified more precisely. The minimum basis for calculating contributions for workers working part-time shall be established. The obligation to pay contributions is also prescribed in cases where pay or part of pay is paid, or some other taxed income is given in kind, therefore, not in cash. Greater amounts of fines are prescribed for financial infringements of employers who do not account for or pay contributions. The specific records of the so-called so-called ‘species’ shall be introduced. a contribution register that will be updated monthly on each employer and the number of registered workers for whom a tax administration report has to be submitted. It is also prescribed to the employers that, when applying for a refund of salary compensation, they must demonstrate that they have fulfilled all obligations on the basis of contributions to health insurance, and if they have not done so, that the refunded amount is beaten with debt. Of course, a very important tool in the realization of this legal mission, so to speak, to curb the gray economy on the labour market will be these, therefore, personal identification numbers. In fact, it is a prerequisite that this law could be implemented at all, so we hope that the preparations for the introduction... They are also making good progress that they will be in office from 1 January of next year, as foreseen, and which is also in line with the date of entry into force of this Contribution Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What other new solutions does the Law on Contributions bring and what are interesting? The law proposes a one-year exemption from the obligation to pay contributions based on the first-time staff and for volunteers. As well as the obligation to pay contributions to long income, pensioners as well as beneficiaries of pension rights that generate income from domestic work or from secondary occupation shall be exempt from the obligation to pay. The novelty is also a release from paying the contributions of craftsmen or persons in the free professions that instead of income earning profits from agriculture or forestry as other activities. It is also news that the obligation to pay contributions for the care of Croatian wartime wartime people and foster parents, as well as for independent artists who are paid out of the state budget, are transferred to relevant ministries. Finally, the law provides for the possibility of the so-called Obligations, i.e. the possibility for a third party to assume on its own the obligation to settle obligations instead of the real debtor. And now allow a few words about what this bill was not made and we of the SDP Club, we think it should have been, or that this was an excellent opportunity for it. First, nothing has been done to reduce labour prices, with the aim of discharging employers, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I am specifically referring to the reduction in gross wages, through a reduction in the rate of contributions to health insurance. I remind you, we in the SDP have proposed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions in which we have proposed a reduction in the rate of contributions for health insurance from the existing 15 to 11% and at the same time a reduction in pension insurance contributions from 15 to 11, all with the aim of increasing the net salary of workers to amortised price shock to the standard. In order not to increase the cost of the employer's work. Unfortunately, as we know, our proposal did not come to an understanding although this change would certainly have better financial effects for employees than it would have been with yesterday's proposed amendment to the Income Tax Act, which envisions an increase in personal deduction from 1600 to 1800 kuna. Secondly, there is no increased contribution to compulsory retirement insurance for age based on individual capitalised savings. The rate of this contribution remained 5%, although it is clear that it is too low and that Croatian citizens with such a level of isolation for the second pillar of pension insurance are actually waiting for a very uncertain age. And third, no less important, the minimum monthly basis for calculating contributions has not been changed, so that this law will have to be amended shortly after completion in order to comply with the Minimum Payment Act. In fact, since mid-year, i.e. Since the entry into force of the Minimum Payment Act, it would be logical for the minimum wage to be the minimum monthly base for the calculation and payment of contributions. But there is no ideal opportunity for this bill to solve it. And only briefly on what the financial impact will be from the implementation of the proposed law. Although, as we have already heard of the law implementation itself, it will not be necessary to allocate specific resources from the state budget, however, implementation of its provisions starting from 1 January 2009 will have an impact on the state budget and this double. On the one hand, it will result in a certain increase in revenue primarily due to an expected increase in efficiency in the scope of the new contributors, but at the same time in the reduction of revenues due to the newly prescribed exemptions from the contribution obligation. Thus, an increase in income is expected, for example, to introduce contributions to craftsmen and persons of free interest, i.e. agriculture and forestry, which, with a working relationship, also generate profits. It's about 1,000 people like that. Then, since the introduction of contributions to the cobwebs, which is 1,000 more. Further introduction of contributions to persons benefiting from property and property rights. That's about 500. Both the system control of employers and the number of employees registered in the register of taxpayers contributes, which will actually be the largest increase of around 15 thousand new insurance companies. The following categories of new insurance companies are expected to be paid on behalf of mandatory contributions totalling 171 million kuna. Of course, the increase in revenues to the state budget will also come from the titles of fines for individual infringements that have been significantly increased by this bill. Also, the exemption from the billing and payment of contributions to new employees and volunteers should act as a motivating to employers the result of which should be stronger employment and, in the perspective, also resulting in an increase in inflows into the state budget from the contribution title. On the other hand, the reduction in the revenues of the state budget will come from these headlines. So from the title of the application of the minimum monthly base for workers working part-time, which is estimated to be around 4 000 employees. Then an increase in the exemption from the contribution obligation for other pensioners and persons under the age of 15. To help parents through find-out policy measures, rents paid by former employers to members of the family of workers, and cash benefits to unemployed persons, and a total of as many as 60 thousand taxpayers. Then, the exemption from the obligation to make contributions from pensioners performing domestic work or secondary occupation is approximately two thousand, and the exemption from the obligation to pay contributions for persons who are first employed or for volunteers is foreseen by as many as 30,000 persons who will be hired for the first time. Clear for all the so-called exemptions in the 2009 state budget, it will be necessary to provide for 370 million kuna more. Planning, beating of planned inflows and spills from the title of contributions is actually obtained as a visible negative balance i.e. The drain is larger than the inflow for nearly 200 million kuna. The truth of the benefits that should be achieved by implementing this law are undoubtedly far more significant than this current financial downturn. One of the most important is that this law, through more comprehensive and efficient system control of employers but also through higher fines for breach of legal provisions, should also introduce more order into the field of contribution and reduce the area of this moment of very widespread gray economy in Croatia, but also introduce more light among the more emerging forms of so-called. flexible work. But we in the SDP Club, even more than this, want to believe that all of this legal infrastructure that we are trying to make by the end of this year will be consistently applied without exception in order to primarily be in the position of increased safety of Croatian workers on the globalised labour market, or that cases such as the Italian employers of the Ladini brothers will, but unfortunately, numerous domestic cases of such employers who do not pay salaries and do not pay mandatory contributions, and thus from the workers of the real slave and from the fool state, be the weeds that will be easily identified and effectively harvested from the grain. Given that I am running out of time, I would just like to say that the SDP Club will support this Bill proposal by once again expressing regret or dissatisfaction that the proposal does not include a reduction in the contribution rate for health insurance and an increase in pension insurance rates for the second pillar of insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11334	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11335	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the distinguished gentlemen of the council, this law may enlist some 110,000 people and the most significant figure will be the circus of 60,000 pensioners. Somewhere around 30,000 of those who are hired for the first time and a circus of 15 thousand employers who have so far not been held as payment bonds. On page 10 days, this table was quoted among other things by Mrs Jelash about the expected effects on the state budget. So the total increase in revenue under this law should be around 171 million kuna. However, the total reduction in revenue is around 369.8 million kuna, which will say that the state budget under this law or under this law will be minus 198.6 million kuna. But it can also be said that the 100 is what? 98.6 million kuna direct investment in employment in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Surely the most controversial provision is this provision, which says that future pensioners are exempt from the obligation to contribute, which could be employed after that pension. And no matter what such provision, union representatives detest, I think that the representatives of the pensioners should be 100% for and I think that 100% for example should be for such a provision and for the Istrians and those environments that are tormented by labor and are now with Istria more and more. Istra today, for example, has about 4000, 700 unemployed. It's between 3% and 4% in the most unfavourable way of calculating. This unemployment is far less than in Koper or in one Trieste. One Buzet, for example, has 60 unemployed, but imports hundreds of workers, imports hundreds of workers from Rijeka and Slovenia, surrounding cities and the biggest problem not only of an entire series of Istrian environments but also of Croatia, Croatia is now becoming a labour force. The workforce can be said freely at this time, perhaps the largest limiter of the development of the Republic of Croatia. But one more thing. Since the employer, and today, apart from public and municipal companies, more and more the private labour price is clearly becoming the basis for survival in this globalised market. Today we see that no one wanted to hire a pensioner except on black, so this also created huge migration problems for you, for example, in those parts of Croatia, which have an average employment on the other hand. So let's say we count that today we have about 30,000 to 35,000 voters more in Istria than there were in '95. year, and it's about people who have been meaning in search of existence coming to these spaces or they've moved out of the neighborhood where because of I don't know the national barriers they couldn't find a perspective for themselves and their families. So it's good to allow a pensioner to work if he wants to. Of course, it would be ideal. We all know that they don't have to work. But we also have to admit Croatia has the youngest retirement population in Europe and God forbid anyone who can and wants to work can make more money. The second question is whether these pensioners will be or become a competition for young people who are looking for a job for the first time. I am deeply convinced that it will not become competition. But I also want to explain it with two, three sentences. Mr. Nadan Vidosevic, president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, said about ten days ago that in 10 years, Croatia is waiting for one million imported labour forces. That's what I want to believe also won't happen in that form. But one thing's for sure. Since one migration country, Croatia has become a settler's destination, whether it's for itself or not, it's simply today's reality. Today, we are all aware of some activities without labour from third countries simply cannot survive. There can't be one shipbuilding, it can't survive construction, it can't survive tourism. Well, the next day, the same thing might happen with health care. Finally, why do I ask myself the question doctors at retirement wouldn't do when we're already thinking more and more intensively about importing people of these profiles or professions? I want to believe that Croatia will not introduce one million workers, but it is true that in 1990 we had a million and 900,000 employees, perhaps more. We've been getting close to the two million figures. Today in Croatia, we have about 1 million and 550,000 employees. We have about 240,000 unemployed today. This unemployment in the last two, three years can be said to have fallen significantly in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps at least even in Istria because the unemployment rates below were at least, and it is not out of the question that the same ratio between employees and pensioners was 1:3. In the 1990s, when we had about 650,000 pensioners, 2 million employees, and today it is 1:1.49, and if all the people we have at the Employment Office were hired overnight, there would be a million,750,000 jobs and they would reach a ratio of 1:1,7 or 1.6 point something. I am also deeply convinced, and the same should be said that there would be no confusion for a pensioner to be employed in public service. It's just regulations make it impossible. The exception is normal health care, university. The pensioners will not be employed even in public enterprises if we keep them clearly in our possession. But who can defend a private today to whom he will hire in his company. Clearly the private was not in any way so far able. He was unable to hire a pensioner, because then the pensioner should have left his pension to rest, and on the other hand, these people were often the subject of our inspections. But I personally hold that it is good that this norm is changed and that it is made of that norm just as it is possible to give up before it is possible. Secondly, I would also like to say that the average employment in the European Union countries is about 65% while in Croatia 55 to 57% depends on the calculation methodology, and we are worse off only Malta and Poland and I dare even say that at this point, the average employment ratio is a greater problem in the Republic of Croatia than perhaps unemployment itself. Otherwise, employment is in constant growth, and since 2001, employment has increased somewhere by 13% while unemployment has fallen, and in the last five years it has decreased by 32%. What may be even more important and the key to this law is the exemption from the obligation to pay contributions to persons who are first employed. So the effect of this measure is specifically minus 247.6 million kuna in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So this employment measure means a person who is employed directly for the first time is aimed at reducing labour costs. We recently passed this minimum wage bill. The minimum wage increased from 2440 kuna to 2740 kuna. Yesterday we discussed the Income Act, the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, and this law I don't know about the contribution should also have a single social dimension between the lines. Now, can this be achieved by these measures when our annual inflation for the past month is 6.4% we'll see clearly. I don't believe that law will have any particular social dimension, but it will help employers certainly do. On the other hand, I again claim that the best social policy, full employment policy such as best development policy, full-time employment policy, such as the best economic policy of a country is full-time employment policy. But it is certain that we will quickly come into a situation that we will also have to start to think about correcting the rate of 22% of VAT. Why in a year the price of food increased by 11.6%, the price of fruit increased by 27.3%, cheese and eggs 15.2%, oil only last month rose by 12.6%, economic growth in Croatia slowed to about 4.5%, global growth slowed to 2.7% in this year, it was 3.7%, growth in developing countries also slowed from 8.5% to 6.5%, and we simply live in this one environment where business will be harder and economic, but God and socially survives? Croatia, we see according to these guidelines of the European Union, seems to have to correct this zero VAT rate on bread and other supplies, but if this food growth continues, and no one will be able to stop the growth of wheat and the like, we see protests announced by our farmers, Croatia will also have to think about reducing VAT on food. Is that going to be 22%, 18, 17, 15 or any other percentage? We'll see, but I'm sure that'll happen. I know that the budget is being charged, and by doing so, VAT revenues, and it needs to be fair and noticeable, and what the salaries will be for 250 thousand people who are on the budget, on doctors through people working in schools, on how much budget revenues will depend on how many people there will be pensions, on how much defence benefits, on what social rights they may be, when we look at compared to the budget, and on many abuses in large amounts, even in the European Union. In one word, it can be said that almost 80% of the budget is going to these expenditures at this point. On the other hand, it is not possible to slow down these large investments because only then will the crisis be inevitable, and the question is what can be achieved by reducing contributions, let's say health care would it lead to bankruptcy of a whole series of health institutions. So, what's the solution? The solution is at this point in this country in my court to let people work and to have. Therefore, this law, I am thus experiencing it on contributions is not bad, it is also useful, and I see the only real flaw in this law in that it is only effective from 1.1.2009 instead of being effective as soon as possible, I do not know 1.7 or 1.8 at the latest, and that through that form at least that season, etc. The end of the year we also try to take advantage. The benefits of this law would then be much greater, the truth something would be lower by about 50, 70 million kuna, but the indirect benefit that would be achieved on the labour market and in the Croatian economy would be significantly higher. All in all, I think that the law may have been late, that it should have been adopted before, and that this deadline should be moved back to 1.8 or 1.9 at the latest this year, and then the power of those provisions would certainly be even more pronounced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11336	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSLS and HSU, Mr. Agent Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11337	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of the Croatian Social and Liberal Party and the Croatian Retirement Party supports this law with certain observations, certain fences. First, when this law comes into force, or applies from 1 January 2009, then this could have been done in 2 readings because I have, at least I have serious objections to this law, and so do we at our club. Secondly, I think that this law is good for the category of citizens, i.e. for third-age citizens who have still working skills, who can find jobs in the labour market and that is one positive shift that pensioners can earn something more with their work skills, and of course do not compete for jobs for younger workers. From that position, as well as from the position that everything is defined in one law or most in one law of matter related to mandatory contributions is a good shift that we, in any case, support. However, he did not solve anything else. So this law doesn't solve the norm, but it doesn't solve what we need to be, and we need to be a state of social justice, a state of justice, and I'm asking you, I've read it in this law, have you noticed that those who pay the highest wages ultimately pay lower contributions, a lower rate of contribution. Secondly, is a pension contribution less important than a health contribution? The payment of the pension contribution is limited and the payment of the health contribution is not limited. Furthermore, why, why limit or limit contributions? Why do you even limit the amount of pensions? This can be regulated by the tax system, not by the law on contributions. The mistake was made in 2003 in application since 2004, this government has confirmed it, and I don't think that's right. Here's one math, one modest contribution to this debate. You know, in 2004, I asked for an answer to the parliamentary question, and in 2004, 860 people made a return of more payments of about 16 million kuna. I suppose there are now more than a thousand Croatian citizens who receive a monthly salary higher, a gross salary greater than 42,000 kuna and that they will also request a return of more paid contributions in 2009. There are also those who receive 150 thousand gross wages a month, there are those who receive 100 thousand kuna gross wages, I'm sure my pensioners will spin in the head of these figures, but that's Croatian reality. Let's assume that someone is receiving 100,000 kunas of gross salary, and such managers have, he pays that salary to 15 thousand kunas of contributions to health care. But if he only pays the first pillar of pension insurance, then he'll pay a maximum of $8.350,00 kuna. So, but that's not true, because from his salary the company will suspend 20%, so all 20 grand will be suspended and will end up in the state budget, but his base cannot be higher than 8.360,00. Let's round up the rough bill, let's make it 8 grand. So it accumulates in the state budget every month 12 thousand kuna times 12 months, which is 144 thousand kuna a year. On the basis of the current articles 221 or 222 he has the right to request more contributions paid and he does so according to the annual accounting and wonderfully, the ministry is nice to him neatly on the billed amount taking 45% of the tax and the dum of him hits 78 thousand kuna. He received, it is called bingo for the richest citizens of Croatia, i.e. for those who have the highest salary. This law is a product of the coalition government, confirmed by this government. I've tried to influence this once with amendments, no one wants to hear it. And this time I'm going to give amendments even though I'd like the government to change it myself, I can't affect the amendments to the whole law very well and it would be best if this went to another reading because of this fact. This is where we fall for the test of justice. We're going down on a test of justice. Why is a more important health contribution and not an important retirement contribution? Why do we limit payments, and then say we're short, to substitute almost one-third of the funding needed to pay off pensions from that budget? And, of course, in generation solidarity, it's not a problem to limit the highest pension, and the lowest pension is set up and limited, regardless of what the radio below that level is not allowed to have per year of internship, it's now those famous 52 kuna per year internships, round talk and can be limited to the most, but it doesn't have to be the highest pension limited to a coefficient of 3.8. It doesn't have to be restricted at all. Let's set up the fourth tax grade, so that someone who gets above I don't know 15 thousand kuna pensions must pay 65% of the tax. Why would that be limited in that way? So I think we're out of control. I think we're setting fences where we shouldn't. I am in favour of all that is suspended at the payout of the employer ends up where it is intended, because that is the purpose of the pension 20% contribution goes to pension insurance, not to those transactions or this indirect one who has the highest salary and gets the most. This also means that the most he can pay for the pension contribution of the second pillar, at the most at that rate of 15% of the 6 thousand, can be paid by 6 thousand and 200 kuna. I listen to people every day and there's too much justice, under quotes, thinking of the norm. There's too many norms for people. I think we're a little out of control here. People are looking, looking for our citizens more justice, more social sensitivity, not to say we give to those who have provided their existence through a number of different forms. That's why I repeat again, the HSS Club of HSU thinks this is a positive shift and that this law deserves our attention and support, but this is not the final solution. In terms of improving this law, I'm going to give amendments, and I'm going to see how you colleagues and colleagues react to that and if you understood what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11338	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After this debate by Mr. Hrelje where he is part of the ruling coalition trying to make some amendments, I believe there will be no problem given that he is part of the government and that he will succeed in agreeing within the ruling coalition. As far as this law is concerned, it is a quality shift, i.e. two basic reasons why it is being adopted, which is, of course, that the state can improve the system's improvement system compared to the promotion of the collection of compulsory contributions and on the other hand, the fact that the law in the past few years, it seems to me five, has been bringing changes and additions, has not been united. So in one place, I think it's a quality solution, and on the other hand I support it. Secondly, as a consequence of its adoption, we will have certain measures to curb the grey economy, so there will be a shift ahead, and I would especially like to note that I welcome an increase in the level of penalties for those who do not pay contributions, because that is how they damage both workers and the state. Further measures to encourage employment are also seen in the analysis given by the promoter that for people who, for young people who will be hired for the first time after their schooling, will be able not to pay contributions for a year, I also welcome that, and I think it is a quality measure. Also as regards pensioners who, unfortunately, we are in a situation in Croatia that there are very many pensioners who are still able to work, i.e. they can contribute to society, and on this side we allow them to both work and in some way to free employers from paying contributions that are mandatory to this engagement. What I think is missing in this law, which is perhaps the most significant measure and the most significant consequence that would happen by passing laws and which we could have classified, which is to increase the net salary of Croatian citizens. So that, in my opinion, may be of all these consequences, and of all these measures that we could have passed by this law, the most important thing, and we didn't bring it in and we missed it, especially because what we see in the law, the law will start from 1.1.2009. So by disbursing the gross salary of workers, if, say, the contribution from the workers' gross salary was reduced by 4% on average, that salary would rise by 300 kuna. This would be one concrete measure that the Government, which the Government could also offer as a proposal to the Croatian Parliament, and probably all of us would accept because it would mean that Croatian citizens will currently have 300 kunas of higher salary and in some way cancel the effects of inflation that this year will certainly be over 7%. Which is why I'm saying that maybe the fact that the law is passed and started to apply with 1. 1. In 2009 he's in favor? We can still do it with this amendment and adopt it. This is because all these gatherings that are happening this year contribute to the good filling of the state budget. We can provide for additional funds next year that would be compensated on the other side by the lack of these contributions. For example, gatherings at the price of energy especially fuel into the state budget will bring over a billion kunas safely at the level of the year. On the other hand, all other purchases on the basis of VAT revenue will amount to the same few billion kunas. Thus, the state will generate additional revenues which, by applying the different Law on Mandatory Contributions, could in some way bring citizens back to an end to the effects of inflation that bothers the citizens or that reduces their standards at the annual level. I think we missed doing it in this proposal so we won't do anything concrete. I mean, we discussed yesterday and the day before yesterday a law such as the Tax on Income Act where, by amending that law, people who have the lowest salaries increased their wages by 30 kuna, and I say that by this one measure, they would increase the average salary by 300 kuna and they would include not only those who have the lowest wages but also those who have the average salary, because we are all aware that with an average salary of 5 thousand each day, they are becoming more and more difficult to live and it is worth less and more to feed their family at the level of a union basket for a four-member family you have to have 6 and a few thousand kuna. So my basic objection in terms of this bill's proposal goes beyond that. We, as a SDP club, have been anti-cicipating this problem at the beginning of the year and have made a proposal to amend and supplement the then applicable Law on Contributions where we have proposed to reduce the salary contribution, gross workers' salaries by 4% to 11%, and that this part is compensated from wages or contributions that go on pay or for a specific health contribution. So here I am, as well as, of course, the SDP club will support this law, but I believe that the government has to take more care of this element of social sensitivity, that it also has to relieve such laws in some way of workers and enable them to make their daily life as simple as possible, i.e. to try to defend the standard of citizens and such concrete measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11340	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Every health and pensioner in this country is interested not only in the provisions of this law but in the extent to which it will be implemented. Therefore, there is a personal interest in anyone who is assured whether the state will bill and collect all contributions, because their future depends on them, especially those who are in the second pillar or only in generation solidarity in pension insurance and all those who use health insurance services, because the more order it is, the more payment obligations by contributions these funds are safer and the state does not have to apply measures extremely unpopular to increase contributions. According to experts in Croatia, about 30% more or 30% of gross social product is achieved by the gray economy. This would mean that somewhere around 200 thousand workers in Croatia work on black or unregistered or are registered for part-time, and actually work full-time or part-time pay is received under a table that is not only paid for taxes but also contributions. If this information is correct, then it is a huge amount of billions of kuna that escapes from the contribution system. This law we had a system a little weird, but it's been for years, since '98. was present, that the state first laid down the lowest basis for paying the contributions it made and, according to this bill, so in the future, it will be for part of the insurance company, 35% of the average salary. So then the minimum wage provision was such that it was bound to that legal provision through a collective agreement, but we recently passed a minimum wage law that wasn't 35% of the average salary but 39% of the average salary at the moment we were bringing it in. I must admit that I expected the government to propose that the lowest basis for payment of contributions can indeed not be lower than the minimum wage, regardless of whether it is insurance that makes pay than for all others, in my opinion the lowest basis for pension, health insurance, unemployment insurance should not be lower than the lowest wage, and that 4% difference when you recalculate on an annual basis into contributions is certainly about a billion kuna. That is why I have given amendments, and I suggest that for all those who pay and receive wages that serve as a basis for introducing the term that the lowest base is actually a minimum wage, and to consider, indeed, that the government gentlemen cannot remain the lowest base in this law, which is below 39% of the average wage that is worth in Croatia at this time. So I can't understand why for some categories of insurance companies, the government is still proposing that the lowest base be lower than the lowest wage, such as that for all those where the coefficients of 0.35 are determined. I don't see any reason for that. The second or second part of the law, so my amendments go only in the direction that wherever the law mentions the lowest basis, we introduce a minimum wage which would further strengthen this institute because I remind you that, in this adoption and that law, we are told that instead of a collective agreement, we go by law because it is safer and guarantees people that it will be the lowest basis. My second remark concerns Article 44, which regulates the lowest base for volunteers, and is about emergency volunteering. So, young people who cannot achieve a traineeship, gain a working experience to pass a state or any other exam, and for them again the lowest basis is projected to be 0.35 and 35%, respectively, of the average salary. If the government already didn't want to go with a bigger base, then my proposal is that their base be the pay they would make if they were in the workplace, which for some would be more, for some perhaps less than the Government's proposal, but in any case fairer and for employers, but also for those volunteers themselves. So it's a solid or significant number of young people, who, through free work, have to gain some work experience in order to be able to access exams, and it's really volunteering out of necessity, not hanging out, not some love, but we've made sure that such a system, that young people have to work for 6 or 12 months. And it's good that this law foresees payment obligations for them, but I find a solution like this not good. And what is particularly surprising to me is the introduction of the most basics for paying pension and health contributions. For example, when reading articles 223, 224 and 204 are combined, the following shall be added. That those people who receive 100,000 kunas in Croatia monthly, and such is not a small number or 50 thousand kunas per month, remember the article from the media about some managers and their salaries, prizes, accounts at the end of the year, which is all a set of basis for payment of contributions, this law provides for the following. They will be accounted for and charged for on a real paid salary receipt, but at the end of the tax year they will have the right to return their contributions, as the highest base is prescribed 6 average salaries. Gross 41.5 grand, net about 30 grand. And why do you now suggest that people who receive salaries higher than 6 average salaries, the state returns contributions. So if the poor, those with average salaries or 10, 20, 30% higher salaries, pay pension and health on real income, income, income, wages, salary, sickness benefits or anything else. Those who receive 100 thousand kunas, give them a chance to claim a period of return of paid contributions to pension and health, because they made a large salary, and the state said that 6 average salaries is a sufficiently large base. The income tax doesn't change anything, so the 45% rate stays, and here we're introducing a benefit for them, which I just don't understand. Don't you really care about the state to charge what belongs to it, the more repressive measures we have and the most problems we have with those who receive minimals or wages that are slightly higher than that? And because of this, all of these provisions that apply, especially in 204, as the highest basis or increase it, so let it be 16 average salaries or simply delete that provision, because it is truly socially unfair and unacceptable at the moment when both the pension and health care institutions are convulsing in problems with the income achieved. This wouldn't matter if there were 1, 2, 3 or 10 of them in Croatia who made such wages, but the number of such ones has already been measured by thousands. And I don't really see why the state would give up the right to charge them pension and health insurance on the basis of real benefits. I want to believe, given that counterpart Silvano Hrelja has announced an amendment on this point, that you will indeed accept this amendment in erasing the most basic or that this bill can be held by vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11342	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11343	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this proposed Law on Contributions is extensive, but it is thorough, measured by the number of articles, almost tripled. The current law has 98 articles and more than 260 articles, which means almost triple. The new Law on Contributions introduces certain benefits in relation to the current Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance. A new special register for payment of social security contributions is introduced, a measure that should increase the effectiveness of the payment of social security contributions, but the fine for illegal payment of contributions remained the same, meaning up to 150 thousand kuna for the employer, i.e. the legal person. Introduce relief in the form of an exemption from the obligation to pay salary contributions, which we know is 17.2% for workers and volunteers who are first employed, means trainees for a year from the day of employment. So the mathematical weight of this form of state support is for workers with minimum wage, the amount of 473 kuna per new worker per month, and for workers with average salary means saving from a thousand 200 kuna per worker per month. Employers will be able to use this relief for employees, as mentioned here from January 1st next year and beyond. This relief will help future young workers, faster to reach a job and certain experience that many employers today have in terms of employment. The legislative regulations of part-time work, which is the operationalisation of the European Union Directive, are amended. 81st of '97. the year in the framework agreement on part-time work, as well as from 1.01 next year. The obligation to pay contributions to health insurance and employment shall also be abolished at least on the lowest basis for full-time work. This is a measure that contributes to the flexible of labour market relations and should encourage under-work employment when the interests of the employer and the worker are matched on the market. With this measure compared to the previous practice of the employer, the cost is significantly lower, I hope that this costing will certainly make sure that employers go also to improve the material position of employees. For some non-payment groups, the obligation to pay contributions is introduced, thus extending the base, the obligation to pay contributions to persons carrying out crafts with a working relationship and to pay profit tax from trades and to persons who earn income from renting real estate and running a business book. Which is positive anyway. The novelty is to abolish the obligation to pay contributions for pensioners we have already heard about who are receiving from the second income and for pensioners who have an open home service or who are carrying out the additional occupation under the Law on crafts. As of 1 January next year, they will not pay contributions to compulsory insurance, a measure that is in the function of improving the material position of the retirement population. And this measure will make it easier for many pensioners to obtain additional earnings to improve their miserable pensions. However, it would not be good for certain employers to use such measures to harm workers, who need to reach past work through well - deserved work, i.e. until that pension. The proposed Law on Contributions will achieve greater discipline in the payment of compulsory contributions, thus introducing this new special register, then increasing the level of fairness in the payment of public contributions, thus introducing the obligation to pay contributions for persons performing crafts with a working relationship and paying a profit tax and for persons who earn income from assets. The harmonisation of this law with other regulations that have already been amended, which is the Law on crafts, health insurance, health protection and labour. So also increased efficiency and greater discipline in paying mandatory contributions, the law is only unacceptable to those, we can tell the mutators who have avoided the payment of contributions by various tricks. But when we're also talking about that salary increase and contributions then, I don't see here MP Hrelj, since he said yesterday that I made an incorrect statement when I was talking about a personal deduction, so, I think he said to honor all of us with dinner, since I asked an official institution for a calculation to confirm yesterday the accuracy of this quote, so he should pay that dinner, and I'm calling him to pay that amount in a soup kitchen in Branimir, because I think those people who are waiting there in line will come in a lot better and it'll be more useful for him to pay and I don't have dinner, so here I'm calling him at this time, and I'm going to give him this calculation to see that he's still wrong, so let him put it in the soup kitchen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11344	Thank you. At 10.45, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11345	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning, I will remind myself that by 1 January 2003, the Mandatory Insurance Contributions Act is in force, which makes the required contributions to all compulsory insurance and which is subject to contributions other than contributions to II. The pension insurance pillar is collected in favour of the state budget. And the collected funds are distributed through the Treasury to insurance companies, i.e. Introducing. The adoption of new measures in this law is important, with regard to negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, or with a negotiating position for Chapter 19. Social policy and employment. It was necessary to amend the provisions of the law, the implementation of Council Directive 97/81 of the European Community since 15 December 1997, the Framework Agreement on part-time work, and the obligation to amend and supplement in that sense the provisions of the law in the section governing the obligation to contribute and the basis for calculating contributions for insurance undertakings. a worker who has a contract to work part-time. In addition to the above, there are several other reasons for amending the current provisions of the law and I will list them. Measures to curb the gray economy. The new system of health insurance and the adoption of new regulations from various areas that are directly or indirectly regulated and some issues related to compulsory insurance and insured persons, thus contributing. The provisions of the law will be in line with the European Union's positive regulations. The provisions will be more effective for insurance companies based on working relationships. More precisely, the basis for the calculation of the contribution is determined and all forms of receipt under which there is an obligation to contribute are listed. A contribution obligation is also prescribed in the case where the payment or part of the remuneration of other receipts is given in kind or in various rights instead of in cash. The monthly base per month of work, which is important to emphasise, cannot be less than the maximum amount the employer is obliged to pay under the labour contract, labour rules, collective contract or special regulation, or another act governing the employer's obligations towards the worker. These are prescribed higher amounts of fines for financial infringements to employers who do not account for or do not report on the obligation to contribute. The introduction of a special record which is very important for the introduction of a contribution register. There'll be tax administrations in the log system. Information will also be included on each employer and other persons who are obliged to report workers and on the number of persons registered. This law also adopts new employment measures. In order to encourage employment of persons who are first employed or contracted on volunteer work, it is proposed to exempt from the obligation to contribute on a base and who are the employer's obligation for up to one year from the day of first employment. These are the following contributions: 1 for health insurance is calculated at a rate of 15%. And I would say here that I disagree with the SDP's proposal when they argued that this rate should be reduced to 11%. I'll just say one example of health care. If we did, and we know very well that we have very expensive treatments, there would be great difficulties in the realization of these treatments. It's just one example. Of course, there are more examples. Secondly, for health care, health protection at work is calculated at 0.5% and for employment at 1.7%. This law also gives the possibility to work on persons who have acquired pension rights and that is exactly one part of the Croatian Democratic Community programme that pensioners will be able to be in a working relationship and will not pay for contributions. This means that persons who are beneficiaries of pension rights receive on the basis of their work, from whom another income is determined, will be exempt from the obligation to contribute and persons carrying out domestic work or secondary occupation using pension rights do not have an obligation to contribute on the basis of the performance of those activities. The obligation to contribute to persons who carry out independent activities from the activities of crafts or free professions or agriculture and forestry as well as other activities, or as an additional and secondary activity, together with a working relationship, shall be laid down. They're busy. And instead of income, this activity determines profit. They are thus equated in obligations with persons carrying out these activities and determining income and having an obligation to contribute to income tax. Of course, if they make their income. Persons who receive income from assets or property rights and of those receipts shall determine the income of an independent activity or profit shall be equated to persons carrying out their own activities and, if they are not provided, they shall be obliged to apply for compulsory insurance. And if they are secured then they will have an obligation to contribute prescribed for other activities such as annual income. Of course again if they make it happen. For persons registered for extended pension insurance as spouses of a professional or contractual diplomat, the obligation to contribute and to pay contributions to the relevant Ministry which employs persons with the status of diplomats in their system shall be prescribed. In the same way, the obligation of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity regarding the obligation for fosterers of Croatian military disabled persons and the Ministry of Health and Social Care regarding the obligation to contribute to the birth, guardians and proposed to the Ministry of Culture regarding the obligation to contribute to independent artists. And to conclude that this new law is more thorough than it is at last, which ultimately means that its reading, interpretation and application is simplified and that order, work and discipline are introduced and I fully support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11346	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11347	Thank you very much. Here I would refer to only one part of the debate of my colleague Šolic. The whole debate was quite constructive and most of it I support but this part that you said about what we have suggested is inconclusive or that there would be additional, additional problems in health care, reduction of contributions we have proposed this law precisely because we think there will be room in the budget as I have mentioned only from an increase in fuel prices The state budget will receive 3 billion kuna more this year. Since the VAT-based revenue increase, the same State budget will be revenueing from several billion kunas more this year. So there is room for the state to sort of reduce contributions and return some of the money there and increase and increase the net salary of Croatian citizens and therefore our proposal was focused in this direction. And especially when this law starts to apply only from next year. So we'll be able to do a quality analysis and see what will be the total, final financial effects on the reduction of contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11348	Reply to the replica of Ms. Zastica Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Maras and I thank you for supporting my debate and you claim you're right about reducing the rate by 11%. I don't agree with that. Look on the one hand, we have really generous health expenditure, and we all know that there are great expenditures and that there is still a need to increase the funding in the State budget for next year for healthcare. But you must remember that it was you who led Croatia and when your government led Croatia that you reduced and now you're fighting for the social population, for poverty and so on. Your government has just cut wages somewhere in some areas as much as 40%. Then you didn't think absolutely about poverty, social and so on. And this is exactly the government with this law absolutely executes parts of its programme, with which it has received trust from Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11350	Second replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to replicate Mrs. Solic in the section where she talks about health care. According to her discussion, the SDP does not take care of health care. Our proposal for tax contributions when it comes to health care had exactly the opposite goal. He had the goal of providing healthcare with more money but in a much fairer way. A million-and-a-half employees can't just finance health care for four-and-a-half million people. Our proposal for tax contributions to healthcare did not mean less money. He meant that it was necessary to tax the rich and capital gains and thus allow health care to have enough money for all the needs that are important for the quality of health in Croatia to be greater than it is now. And there is no need to secure more money in the next budget, but more money needs to be provided in the budget rebalancing so that Croatian health does not come to a serious question. It is already clear that the politics led by HDZ regarding the resolution of the price shock is not helping. That's what the World Bank says. The only goal, the only possible way for people in Croatia to get over the inflation crisis is to grow wages, but not to grow wages to the detriment of employers, because it leads to economic decay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11352	Reply to the replica of Ms. Zastica Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11353	... In my debate, I didn't say one word that the SDP doesn't support health care. [[You can't hear the phone.]] That's what you've now constructed for yourself to replicate to me. However, I disagree with your proposal because it is absolutely inconclusive. He's inconclusive when everything is summed up and calculated he absolutely has no basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11354	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The fact and later I will also further refer to the fact that the Tax Administration is responsible under the Tax Administration Act for other tasks and for the tasks of determining the collection and supervision of contributions to compulsory insurance. It may be convenient to say, although it is already said that compulsory insurance is considered a retirement insurance based on generational solidarity, the first pillar. The second pillar of pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, compulsory health insurance, health protection of health at work and unemployment insurance. Mandatory persons, and their rights are governed by mandatory insurance regulations and, in accordance with the provisions of those provisions, compulsory insurance is financed from the contributions paid by insurance and other persons to insurance undertakings, and from other sources, and the question of the obligors of contributions and billing rates, they are regulated as we know by a special regulation. This specific regulation in relation to other regulations in this case is the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act, which has been the subject of all the essential provisions of the 2003 application and according to which the contributions are collected for the benefit of the State budget, and in any event the funds are then allocated through the Treasury to the insurance undertakings themselves. It has been mentioned here several times, and this accelerated work and pace of work by the Parliament is related to negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and to the harmonisation of its legislation, and this topic is normally related to one negotiating position for Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment, as regards this implementation of the Council Directive, and in particular related to the regulation of the obligations of contributions and the basis for accounting for contributions for insurance undertakings, and in the note of part-time. So, these are already some of the reasons, with many colleagues saying that we are going to implement this law and adopt an emergency procedure, and certainly they are also other measures, which are measures to curb the grey economy, the new health system as insurance, and the adoption of new rules that are directly or indirectly related to this topic, other reasons that make a significant contribution to this law and this bill we have on the table today. Of course, the first consequences of the adoption of this law are compliance with EU standards, and of course these provisions will be more effective for insurance companies on the basis of working relationship, because, as we know, the basis for the calculation of contributions is determined more precisely, and all forms of receipts under which this obligation exists are detailed. Certainly, here it is well prescribed and the obligation to contribute when either paid or part paid is given in nature or in some other rights rather than in money. What is really important is that this monthly pay base cannot amount to less than the highest amount the employer is obliged to pay under contract or work or labour regulations, collective contract or any other contract governed here by the employer's obligations to the worker. Here, and higher amounts of fines for financial offenders are prescribed for employers who do not account for or do not report on the obligation to contribute, and therefore certainly introduce a special record which is in the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration on all the updated data, on each employer and other persons. I think one of my colleagues and colleagues has already said the special role of the OIB, so a personal identification number that further helps in any case to the transparency of all those financial flows. I would briefly refer here to a specific article that says that legal and other persons are liable in due time under the law when they pay the net wages to pay these other financial assets by other taxes and contributions and here I commend even though it is very responsible and a provision whereby the Tax Administration actually gives automation to pay these claims by means of a change, i.e. by means of compensation, i.e. I would say by way of an account of economic operators, which in some way is important to determine and timely collection of such types of claims, and also important and spotless immediately in that way, and to show whether the employer is precisely on the basis of the contribution in due time they have, in part, known practice for all of the fact that the legal persons did not pay those types of their obligations, and that the legal entity as such could live and work. All those involved in life in the economy know what this possibility of withdrawing money from an account means, which means that in this way the legal entity is also placed in a situation that cannot operate, cannot work, cannot create a new income and new value unless these obligations are carried out in time and I certainly commend it, but it gives normal and new responsibility to all those who run business entities and in this way these funds, not only have to plan to pay, but they must certainly and clearly and immediately know that there is no business if these obligations are not paid. I would perhaps only draw the applicants here to the point 2 to 9 which also requires banking institutions to monitor the payment of these contributions, which actually puts the banks in one new role which may not need to be taken into account in the light of the tax administration or other state or the authorised institutions and organisations that are responsible for it, and we also know that today the tax administration is very fast, timely and in time, and the present and present system has income control over all types of basics, and when it comes to positioning and type of business entities, and perhaps you should consider that banks should not have this additional role that significantly detracts from their basic activities on the one hand, and on the other hand, in the context of secure Internet transactions, in some way, requires a new task which may not be in their nature, and consequently, that they should neither have. Certainly, I also welcome the measures that are linked through the incentives for employment. It is certainly our instinct that, on the one hand, young people on the other hand, we, as an institution, create some institutional conditions on the one hand, and I also welcome the fact that people, our citizens in retirement, are not burdened with additional work, additional earnings, and that such contributions are not additionally burdensome. Given the precise urgency of this law on compliance with EU norms on one hand, but with some of the essential provisions which they, in my deep conviction, bring a relief to both employees and to a wider part of our population from those young to the oldest, I will certainly support the proposal of this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11356	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11357	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the tax administration. The proposal for a law on contributions continues the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The dynamics set out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the harmonisation of the Republic of Croatia's legislation with the EU are fully achieved and it is up to us to do our part of the work in this House of Higher Education in quality and of course as planned. On the conformity of this law with the legislation of the European Union, a statement of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe was presented in the annex. With everything that's been said here today, I think it's important to point out a few things, repeat, not say anything new, but what I think is most important. So, in addition to everything that is explained under this law and during the debate, I would particularly stick to one of the consequences of the application of this law in practice, which is to encourage entrepreneurship and supplementary work of pensioners, which should ultimately lead to a reduction in the grey economy. As to how this law will affect the development of entrepreneurship, it is clear from the part where employment is encouraged for the first time by persons who are employed or contracted on a voluntary basis through the release from the obligation of contributions to be calculated on the basis and who are the employer's obligation for a period of one year, from the day of first employment, or from the start of work under the volunteer contract. Of course, there is already an interest in asking entrepreneurs on the ground who have heard about the preparation of such legal amendments and, of course, they look forward to the application of this law with impatience. Another impact on employment and further development of entrepreneurship is to one extent the promotion of the ability to work for persons who have acquired the right to pension insurance to our pensioners. This law on the contributions of persons who are beneficiaries of pension rights receive from the basis of their work, and of whom other income is determined, will be exempt from the obligation to contribute and persons performing their domestic work, means that the category of persons or secondary interest, while applying the right to retire, shall not be subject to the obligation to contribute on the basis of the performance of those activities. The announcements are realistic, and here I fully agree with my colleague Caine that in the near time Croatia will lack labour, i.e. workers and this is one way to enable pensioners without freezing pensions and with a privileged contribution to the continuation of work after retirement. It is known that in Croatia there are a relatively large number of young pensioners and pensioners who retire under the force of the law, all of whom are still in a state of mental and physical capacity. I believe that these categories of the population will be interested in continuing their work, and that in this way the domestic Croatian labour force will be reduced by the upcoming expected greater need for workers, that our pensioners will be allowed to obtain additional income legally, hence, and a better standard of living. All together should, of course, lead to further development of entrepreneurship, growth of gross domestic product in the Republic of Croatia and ultimately, regardless of this initial reduction to an increase in revenues in the state budget. Of course, I am based on the above-mentioned debates of all today fully in favour of this law, but I must comment here on the discussions of my colleagues from the SDP where it is amazing that in moments when they were able to influence the salaries and rights of workers, they have led a policy to reduce the wages and incomes of workers, and today, when they are in opposition, they are fighting and suddenly become socially sensitive to that category which has been the worst in the period of SDP rule in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11358	Correction of the incorrect quote, Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11359	I'll correct my respected colleague when you said when we were in position, i.e. SDP, to raise wages. I will remind you that by 2000 to 2003 the average salary in the Republic of Croatia has increased by more than 40%, and in the last five years the level of salary increases is less than 15%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11360	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11361	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have already discussed this law a lot, I want to talk about only one thing, and that is the extent that the law provides, among other things, for employers to be free from paying health contributions for a person who is first employed and for a year. On the one hand, it's a really good measure, a good move, it can be encouraging, but it's also the biggest hole in the law, and I'd dare say a pretty big hole in this law. Of course, it is also a polygon for many of the abuses that are of course hidden in the fact that, after the end of that year, the employer of that young worker he hired can quit and hire another young worker and trainee in his place and then reduce the costs of his business with those benefits. Of course, this man worked for a year, lost his job, and at the end of the day, there is nothing to be done. The big hole, both in the law and the possibility of abuse, was seen by Prime Minister Sanader himself when the government established this bill. He said when he was asked about it, I quote: "I hope it will not be the case, and even if we have given this young man the opportunity to work for a year.". Watch out for your colleagues and colleagues, our prime minister hopes it won't be the case. If you ask me, the Prime Minister certainly has the right to hope, but I think his obligation as well as ours is much higher than that. Because if we leave everything to hope that something will not happen, then we are not passing a legal measure aimed at reducing unemployment and raising youth standards, but it is just another attempt at manipulation and media spin. Therefore, since the prime minister must not and cannot be a manipulator despite all the facts, I have submitted to the bill an amendment that should actually punish those employers who abuse this provision under the law. I hope that the proposings will accept this amendment in this form or give one of theirs who may be more appropriate, because otherwise this potentially good measure will come to the sense of spilling from hollow to empty. Because while aware of the possibilities of abuse without simultaneous punishment for this particular and such abuse, the government loses all credibility and actually invites thieves to enter the open door. By accepting the amendments, it will also demonstrate the real will to do something for more permanent youth employment, not only as the prime minister says, at the year-long youth employment. Because hiring young people for a year, I don't think he can solve any problem. Of course, the problem is much more complex than one legal provision or one measure under the law. For several years now, we have no real measures to encourage youth employment, and then it all comes down to the fact that young people are actually gathering an internship on the market and then resulting in singleness from parents, creating their own family, buying an apartment that is that we understand drama for ourselves, being delayed at best for some early 30s. Now, of course, in this debate, there is no time or space to discuss all these social, political and broader implications that arise from the unemployment of particularly young people, but I think we finally have to deal with this and really, not just declaratively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11362	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11363	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague has said that for years, there has been no measure to hire young people, which is completely untrue. Such measures occur every year through the Employment Office and such measures are currently under way at the Employment Office which can be checked at the office. The Ministry of Economy also had different credit lines and incentives for entrepreneurs who employ workers for the first time. In particular, this is highlighted in areas of special state concern where additional measures are precisely for entrepreneurs who hire young people who get a job for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11364	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11365	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am, at first, going to express my satisfaction that such a legal proposal for a comprehensive integration law has come to our benches and should certainly be supported. In fact, this is one of the better laws that comes to the benches, and if there were no more problems at all, the debates would probably decrease. What is essentially good with the law itself and what we personally need to pay attention to is to enable payment of contributions relatively to working time. These are modern countries from the European Union that followed the best European practice, have long introduced them. It's nothing new. It is something I can personally say that will do more for employment in Croatia since 1.1.2009 than any government strategy in the last five years, and that's good. Because there are people who out of a million and 400 thousand people who work hard, there are those who can't, they don't want to, maybe they don't want to work all the time. It's good for them, too, and it's good for employers not to have a higher cost of introducing and working part-time. What is still good is that in some ways it stimulates the work of the pensioners and the work of the people who do, i.e. they work on their own initiative, that in some ways they are exempt from payment of contributions. What's still good is that you introduce stimulation for people who do their first job and that's good, although there are certain problems, and I'm going to talk about problems when I say some of these affirmative things. You in the Netherlands who is the first country in Europe by the number of people working part-time have a record low unemployment rate. There is practically not just one who does not want to, or who is not given, or who has come there not to work. Maybe our Djoni Stulić I don't know, we don't have any information about him, he works or doesn't work, but the Netherlands is one of those and most developed European countries. The Benelux countries usually have the largest GDP per capital and this is one example that Croatia needs to follow and definitely has a lot to learn from. But what arises as potential problems, and some of my colleagues have spoken of it before. First, I'm going to look back on encouraging part-time employment. The fact is that this story will produce one effect, one effect of greater employment, and that's good, and I've already welcomed it. But the fact is also that the wages that workers will make will continue to be small. It will continue to be insufficient for life, and what is also a fact is that Croatia has no strategic vision of the development of the economy where we want to be in five and ten years. And that's the problem. Next, what's the problem? About what my colleague Lugaric said, I can agree and therefore I hope that you will support the SDP amendment, because there is no one right, an employer, to use the benefits of the first job and then dumped on the road of a young man. And for such an employer, we have made an amendment that this employer is punished in accordance with the provisions of others means in accordance with the legal provisions provided for to punish employers. So that a young man who makes his first job, who is not a contributor, will not be dumped on the road after a year of work. On the other hand, this will have to be done on the other hand and strengthened especially when working part-time and inspecting work. What does that mean? In order not to abuse these things, the law needs to be implemented. Law implementation means having a clearer and more efficient labour inspection. If the employer who takes people in part-time is going to make these people work in six or work in eight hours, then we're in trouble. Then they pay less contributions and make them do more. And that inspection will have to take certain steps. And that's where we're going to have to make a certain distance from the standard story and deal with the real problem. And that's where I see potential and great work but also great opportunity. You in German legislation, unlike ours, have that working disputes do not solve ordinary courts like ours, but solves exclusively a working court that is not even a court but is made up of lawyers who are de facto civil servants in the civil service and that is settled in about a week. Furthermore, what is really still to be said here and that is what Nadica Jelas said on behalf of the SDP club at the end. We proposed that one of our proposals a month or two ago, that once the insurance payer was redistributed, the average net salary for Croatian citizens increased 300 kuna in order to relieve inflationary pressure. It has not passed, but I believe that in the future it will come to some of our proposals as well as this proposal for half the time, something that we insisted on during the election campaign, and also at a time long before that, and I am glad that some of the good things that come from our side are being adopted today in this House and are coming just as they are today as the proposals of the ruling majority. It's important that these things come, even if they come from any side. It is especially important, and this was apostrophe of colleague Jelash, you in Croatia today have a case that people, citizens, are paid from their gross wages to the second pillar. The second pillar is only 5% and it is necessary to increase the allocations by the second pillar. At the same time, the second pillar of pension insurance is on average 5%, and inflation will be higher than 6% this year. This means that you in the second pillar, not that you didn't save money, but for that money in the second column, which should take you next year and years after you retire, that money is less worth it next year. And it will therefore be important to reform the way it stands out in the second pillar and it will have to be done if we want Croatian citizens to have a bigger pension in the future. So you're going to have to increase the detachment by the second pillar. Here, I would only finally say that we will support this law, but because of what my colleague Lugaric said, it is to protect a young man, just to protect the man who makes the first job, to punish that employer who after a year. And I hope all of you will support that amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11366	Thank you. We have replicas. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would say to my colleague Bernardic for his discussion of why, according to every law, go with mistrust. I agree with you when you said you needed a young man to protect you. I agree, however, that we should do everything possible to ensure that young people are employed, not on a certain basis, but on an indefinite basis. However, we must understand one thing, colleague Bernardić, that every entrepreneur who hires a new worker i.e. Under this, of course, even under these laws, more young people will be employed in the light of some employers' discharges, but certainly not every employer will change young people or workers. It is in every employer's interest that this man who is newly employed to acquire, of course to acquire knowledge, to acquire in this profession practice, and that he is greatly benefiting from that employer and that work he does. And I don't think it's going to happen from that position that I can't say that someone might not use it, I can't argue, but surely every employer will be in the interest of not changing people in a year, but to stay away because they're finished people with practice. Well, thank you very much. I just wanted to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11368	Here you go, Mr. Bernardich.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11369	Dear colleague Šolić. I just went to law school with trust. And that's basically my intensity. So not with mistrust, but with trust. And precisely because of that trust, it would be good for that provision to stand inside. I don't mind. If the work, young man, the person who first employed did not satisfy certain interests of the employer and he fired him after three or four months it is legitimate and it is on him. But if he's held by all 12 months for which he doesn't have to pay his contributions, and what's his legal obligation and fire him right after 12 months, then that worker needs to be protected. And that's the intensity of our proposal. And we're going with trust right now. And as for that, imagine, for example. Let's start with that, for example. The police don't need it for two days, because we have great trust, doing our job. Well, there'd be a mess. And one such item in the law won't be able to implement the law, it won't change it, and in some ways in these cases in 12 months, in which the employer takes advantage of what the state gives him, so the state gives him, he doesn't give himself, the state gives him. The fact that the state gives it to actually through this article the state protects itself and that man, because it cares and must care for Croatian citizens... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11370	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11371	Representative Bernardic here said that there should be some protection mechanisms for the employer not to fire those workers after a year. I agree in your debate, surely you should see that the employers of those young workers do not fire what they need, which they have satisfied with quality, etc., it is very important. But most importantly, it is these young workers through this incentive that they will gain one experience in a year, which many employers demand when hiring workers. But I will also remind you that something similar to the coalition hair, at that time at the head of the SDP, has also proposed certain incentives for hiring new workers and has not introduced exactly any protection mechanisms for one year. No protection mechanisms for those employers who, when these funds they received, are spent on the same budget and are not allowed to fire workers. It's the same fact, I remember then I suggested to the late president of yours, that it also try to put something on, some mechanisms to protect itself. There were no mechanisms. So I think that from this position, I am appealing normally to employers, in any case, not to fire people, to keep people, but the greatest quality is that, yet these young people are going to get some experience in that year, so with some new job, they're going to have this necessary experience that employers are saddened to have when they hire these young people in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11372	Answer, Mr. Bernardich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11373	Mr. Kunst, if there was a gap before, I don't agree to the argument that because there was a gap before and now there's a failure. Nor should we in this House set such an example. Miss and mistakes will always be made and human mistakes will be made. But human beings are not invited because someone was wrong, so we too have to sin. And right in the direction of avoiding failure is this proposal. So we want whoever makes the most of that right doesn't have the right to dump that worker on the road. If he wasn't good before, if he wasn't good for six months, so let him fire him, no problem, but if he held him for 12 months, so he'd have less to pay the state, so he'd have less to pay in the health fund, so that Croatian citizens would have less on the basis of the Health and Pension Fund, if he did it for only 12 months and then he wants to take someone new, then I suggest that he be punished in some way and that's the only intensity and purpose of our proposal, and you'll agree that there's nothing so bad in him and there's nothing so controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11374	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11375	Thank you. Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations, where my colleague said that the Croatian government does not have an economic strategy. That's completely incorrect. The Croatian government has an economic strategy, an economic strategy implemented by the Ministerial Economy. Over the past 4 years, when there was also an economic strategy, only to encourage entrepreneurship and business environment. Nearly 3 billion kuna have been invested for different programmes stemmed from economic strategy, promotion of exports, crafts, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, business zones, development of domestic production, interest subsidies, agriculture, tourism, and at the moment the Ministry of Economy has launched almost 30 competitions for various operational programmes stemming from the economic strategy, where entrepreneurs and various institutions that encourage entrepreneurship with grants under the economic strategy that exists in Croatia. It's a lie, and I think it's a public matter to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11376	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Ivica Mladneo, Director of the Tax Administration and Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11377	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and distinguished parliamentary representatives. Let me just take a quick look at those two main dilemmas that we discussed today. The minimum basis for the calculation of the salary contribution is laid down in Article 21, which provides that the lowest basis is the basis for the employer to pay, according to the labour contract, the Regulation, the collective contract and the special regulation. Here special regulations mean the minimum wage law, so it can't be less than the basics prescribed by the Minimum Payment Act. That is why, in particular, Article 21 has been introduced. As far as the most basic is concerned, it has so far been prescribed in this law which is now in force and is prescribed on 6 average gross salaries, one, eight previous years. It has been taken according to pension insurance rights and according to the pension rate, therefore it is not that it is a newspaper in the law, which was respected by Commissioner Lesar, so it is already prescribed, and I have to say something else, that through the bill of wages, all those who have over this salary, take into account themselves and have no need to ask for a refund, but are paid according to regulations as they are valid. So 90% of all of them take advantage of this right over the years. And in the end, I would like to thank everyone for the discussion and those suggestions they made, probably in the next changes. Some suggestions were good, will be accepted in the changes that will be. In the end, thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11378	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when new conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Contributions. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 89. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Who's to conduct the debate? Please, let's get involved and vote. So, we vote on having a debate on the proposed amendments to the government that came later. The result? The proposal was accepted with 88 votes, mostly votes, 2 abstentions and 2 against. I find that most of the votes we have decided to hold a debate on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendments. Mr. Secretary of State Ivica Mladneo. An amendment to one government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11380	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. We have seven amendments to the government before us. The reasons for the amendments are first, second, third and fifth, which relate to the alignment with the Pension Insurance Office. We know that pension insurance, records and payments and entitlements last until retirement some and over 40 years, and it was once again explained and it was clear that we have as little problems as possible, so that the provisions of Articles 221 and 222. given to the Tax Administration the possibility that when it determines whether or not someone has died or stopped, it is not informed by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office that it can determine the termination of the insurance status. It means he doesn't have to send any more notices, he's in charge. We know when someone dies, so we send him another way to re-deposit. What are those problems? In addition, the provisions of Article 228 under which insurance holders are obliged to provide a written order to the Tax Administration to record any changes to the balance that the Tax Administration also took over on 31 December 2002. We know that there are also major problems with the takeover of the balance, that often there are a large number of complaints about these balances, and then this article is now more precisely determined. In addition, the provisions of Article 233 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The tax administration shall be empowered to also write off the debt of the contribution resulting from the inclusion in the insurance standing covered by the payment. Explanation under Amendments 4 and 6. The Croatian Banks' Association subsequently submitted a written proposal requiring the removal of Article 229 of the final proposal, which made a commitment to the banks that manage the accounts to report to the Tax Administration unless contributions were paid and wages paid. The Croatian National Bank also supported the proposal and proposed that Article 229 be deleted, but also Article 254 which prescribed a penalty for a breach of the bank which did not act in a manner which was determined by this... This Regulation shall enter into [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also argued by the National Bank that banks cannot have that data because all business entities can have more giro accounts in multiple banks so that net wages can be paid in one bank, in other pension insurance contributions, and in third contributions, e.g. for health insurance. Amendment 7 is also proposed to delete Articles 229 and 254 as the following figures are arranged in accordance with Article 228. Here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11381	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, but we're going to talk about every amendment in particular. For Amendment 1, is there? There isn't. Who's in favour of this amendment? Please raise your hands. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Two. Let's see. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, did you respond or is there more? There's more. This way, it voted for Amendment 1 107 for and two abstentions. Amendment 2. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this amendment raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity accepted by 109 votes. Amendment 3. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? It was unanimously accepted, 109 votes in favour. Amendment 4. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Against? Restraint? The amendment was accepted by most votes, 107 votes for and one abstention. Amendment 5. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This amendment was accepted by 106 votes for and 2 abstentions. Amendment 6. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously by 107 votes in favour. And Amendment 7. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 107 votes in favour, unanimously accepted. The review of the other amendments submitted is divided into benches. I ask the representative, there he is, so the proposer, and these are the Committee on Legislatives, the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11382	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11383	This amendment has been accepted, becoming an integral part. The Legislative Committee, the other?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11384	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11385	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part. Third amendment, also the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11386	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11387	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the representative of Dragutin Lesar, the fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11388	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11389	It's someone's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11390	The text of Article 21(2) of the Law clearly states that the basis for calculating the contribution cannot be less than the maximum amount that the employer or other person is obliged to pay instead of the employer to the insurance undertaking under the labour contract, the Labour Regulation, the collective contract or the special regulation, here it refers to the Minimum Payment Act, thus already in this bill and is incorporated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11391	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11392	I really agree with Mr. Secretary of State that when you entered the word special regulations, you were referring to the Minimum Payment Act, but knowing us, and we know well what we are, my proposal and the amendment is exactly that if we have passed the Minimum Payment Act and we want it to be a minimum basis and to pay for the contribution, let's put it out loud and clear here instead of those other regulations, a minimum wage and then we have made sure of possible different interpretations in the application of this regulation. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11393	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fifth amendment of MP Ljubice Lukacic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11394	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11395	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Sixth, Representative Dragutin Lesar?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11396	It's unacceptable. The proposal is contrary to the provisions of the bill governing measures to encourage employment of persons who are employed for the first time and volunteers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11397	Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11398	If we discuss the amendment to article 44, which applies to volunteers who do not volunteer, they do not volunteer because of obsolescence or boredom, but because of the fact that they are the only way to gain the necessary work experience. I believe that the basis that the law would prescribe for them is 0.35, and 35% of the average salary is not and does not have to be fair and I offer a solution that serves them as the base of the salary they would receive to work as employees in that same workplace. I think she's far more just and acceptable, but I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11399	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Seventh Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11400	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11401	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Eight, MP Ljubica Lukačić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11402	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11403	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Ninth, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11404	It's unacceptable. Explanation as well as under 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11405	Since my first amendment has been rejected, which I am very sorry, you will see that we will have a problem. And I'm withdrawing Amendment number three because it doesn't make sense to vote on it once it's already been rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11406	What amendment has been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11407	I withdrew my amendment to Article 200(1) and Article 200(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11408	Okay, thank you. This proposal has been withdrawn. So it's 10 now, the HSLS-HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11409	It's unacceptable. The provision on the highest monthly and highest annual base for the calculation of pension insurance contributions has been applied since 1 January 2003, and is based on similar regulation in other countries, and the fact is that compulsory pension rights based on generation solidarity are limited by specific rules on the highest pension and therefore this highest base is introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11410	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, is anyone answering? If not, I am voting on a proposal for this amendment which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11411	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11412	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11413	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11414	Good to see you, too. 13, MPs Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11415	It's unacceptable. The fact that Article 43 of the Law provides for the obligation of contributions for insurance undertakings first employed on the basis of volunteers and the exception under which the employer for volunteers and first employment does not have the obligation to account for contributions to health insurance. So we're not under the law of obligation, so we can't accept it on this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11416	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11417	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, how are we going to punish employers who abuse this legal provision? When the government passed the law and asked Prime Minister Sanader how to prevent abuse, he said he hoped it would not happen. I don't think we can rely on hope and really need to impose sanctions on those employers who directly abuse this provision. It seems to me a very likely scenario knowing us here in Croatia, simply hiring a young person and after a year firing her and hiring a new young person just so we don't have to pay our contributions. This does not achieve the goal of increased youth employment, and then I ask you to really formulate sanctions for these employers who will abuse the law, because that will be the case. That's what the Prime Minister was aware of, he had newspaper statements on it. You're aware of that at the Ministry of Finance, and now we're all gonna pretend like it's not gonna happen. If you don't accept such an amendment somewhat reformed, I'm asking you to vote because it's not right for it to run out of sanctions like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11418	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11419	It is not accepted because the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already voted to delete Article 254.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11420	In that sense, we withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11421	Pulled this appointment. And 15, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11422	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11423	Sustained. Thank you. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Contributions. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was adopted by a majority of votes, or unanimously with 97 votes, along with amendments adopted. The Legislative Committee proposes the adoption of the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to edit the text of this law before its publication in "The People's Journal". I am voting on the Committee's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was accepted by most of the votes, 93 votes for and 1 abstention. The HSLS-HSU representative club proposes to the Assembly the following conclusion. The first reading was carried out on the proposal for a law on contributions. It's declassified because it's already accepted, and it's contrary to the Rules of Procedure. A representative club is not authorised to propose a debate in the first reading, etc. So this is what we've decided. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 92 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on State Budget Finance, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session, the amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11425	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would just briefly refer to the principles and basic reasons why the government is proposing this law to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Therefore, the first and basic principles on which this new law is based are not deviating from the principle of the already existing law are already being implemented and new international and measures and standards in the Croatian legal order and all in order to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and its institutions from the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing, and to further upgrade the existing system for the control of money laundering and terrorist financing, which will ultimately make it even more effective. As for the direct reasons for the adoption of this law under 1. I'll say it's a alignment with the so-called. III. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as other international standards. Only one observation, the appropriate transposition of the new Directive of the European Union was required to complete by 15. It means 12 by the end of 2007. The Republic of Croatia practically half a year after that already goes with this harmonisation. Secondly, this is the implementation of the action plan as criteria in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing related to Chapter IV. Freedom of movement of capital, which is also a central measure of the action plan, which is the adoption of this new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. And finally these are recommendations from the Council of Europe, their committee, experts in assessing measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, the famous April 2008 maneuver. As far as the most important newspapers of this bill are concerned. First, carrying out a risk assessment for clients or a transaction by banks and other obligors, given the possible misuse of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. The second is the introduction of a cap on cash operations relating to all legal and natural persons carrying out a registered activity, not to make a payment in cash in excess of 105 thousand kunas, or in non-resistant transactions in value exceeding 15 thousand euros. In the case of the sale of goods and the provision of services, the sale of real estate, the receipt of loans, the sale of transferable securities or shares. I would like to say here that the restriction in the cash business as a consequence will have a certain reduction in the risk of misuse of the use of the financial system of the Republic of Croatia by inserting into the same unrecorded cash. Similar legal arrangements related to cash restrictions were introduced by some of our neighbouring countries such as Italy and Slovenia but also by Belgium. Third, this is the introduction of a ban on the use of anonymous products, i.e. anonymous bank accounts, savings books on codes or holders, or invoices or savings books without customer identification data. It also introduces the term "so-called". Politically exposed persons in accordance with the provisions of the so-called III. The Directives, whereby the provisions of the future law in that section will apply only to foreign politically exposed persons, while domestically exposed persons are subject to measures of common regular depth analysis. Business relations with persons who have taken over or have taken up prominent public duties abroad represent greater risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, and therefore international interest is based on the view that business with such parties is paying particular attention. The determination of effective and proportionate sanctions and infringement measures is also prescribed by this law. In the bill's proposal, the law should come into force from the beginning of 2009, the simple reason is, above all, the education of all involved obligors and participants, and above all, I think of banks and other institutions of the financial market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11426	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11427	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 12 June 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism with the Final Bill delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 29 May 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it on the basis of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question as a parent working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported the Government's proposal for this law to be adopted under the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, since its adoption, continues to bring Croatian legislation into line in the area of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing with the acquis of the European Union. The Committee discussed the need to further strengthen and upgrade the money laundering and terrorist financing system and therefore support the full harmonisation of the primary Croatian legislation in this area with the European acquis. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11428	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11429	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues from the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Let me say a few words about the bill. Each constitutional basis for the adoption of the law is the provision of Article 2(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, which entered into force 1. 11. In 1997, and which was partially changed, i.e. noveltized in 2003, set the basis for developing a preventive system in the area of money laundering prevention. Moreover, the applicable law also adopted a sublegal act, the Regulation implementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and in addition to the applicable law, in this area, the area of the prevention and detection of money laundering to a greater or lesser extent, also applies to the following laws: that is the Criminal Act, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Law on Banks. By passing today's current law in November 1997 and by setting up the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering as a Financial Intelligence Unit, by determining money laundering and by financing tourism as special offences, and by prescribing the basis of this and the criminal responsibility of legal persons and for the crime of money laundering, the Republic of Croatia has established a model that prevents the misuse of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. Thus, by establishing a legislative legal and institutional framework to prevent money laundering, the Republic of Croatia has adopted most international standarts and measures in the system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Accordingly, the current law of the Croatian office has been established by the Ministry of Finance as an autonomous and independent financial and intelligence unit of the administrative type since its establishment. According to international standards, the office is set up as a central analytical service which has a primary task to prevent and also analyse suspicious transactions and, after establishing reasons for doubting money laundering, to supply such cases to the competent state authorities. I think that we know for a good part that the applicable law as a special law has a preventive character and that the key element of the system is the obligation of banks and other debtors to notify all cash transactions if their value is greater than EUR 200 000 as well as other cash and non-cash transactions regardless of their financial value if there is a suspicion that money laundering is in line with certain indications that it exists. It is not worse to repeat that money laundering represents activities in banking, monetary or other business with the aim of covering up the real source or property or rights provided with money which is known to have been obtained in an illegal manner. The control of money laundering is not only in the jurisdiction of one institution but it is a system they are making, and I will not now list them all as the bodies of prevention of such supervisory authorities and law enforcement bodies. This actually means that the office acts as a central preventative body as one intermediary between the financial and non-financial sectors on the one hand and the supervisory authorities, the police and the State's attorneys on the other. It is evident from what is here that the Republic of Croatia has joined the legislative and institutional arrangements in the area of money laundering prevention since 1996, among the first of the Central and Eastern European states, and has started to systematically build a strategy to prevent and detect money laundering. The establishment of a legal and institutional system in preventing money laundering as a modern and internationally recognised figure also suggests that the Croatian office has since 1998 been one of 107 members of the international working group Egmont. That the representative of the Croatian Office is a member of the Presidency of the Council of Europe and a member and head of the delegation in Manival and it is also convenient to conclude that the entire system of the Republic of Croatia in the field of money laundering and tourism financing has been repeatedly and evaluated by experts from relevant international institutions. Here we can conclude that, within the framework of financial and intelligence units, Croatia has one of the better quality offices in this part of Europe. One part of the countries based their laws and anti-money laundering systems on the Croatian model, however, is the unquestionable fact that the international community has adopted new international standards and measures in the field of money laundering and tourism financing, which also led to the creation of a new proposal by this legislator, and in order to further harmonise primary Croatian legislation, which regulates this area of preventing money laundering and tourism financing with a European acquis and, in particular, Directive 2005/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering purposes. The Council of Europe Convention No. 198 on Laundering, Searching and Suspension. The UA Member States were obliged to adopt laws in accordance with this Directive by the end of December 2007 at the latest, resulting in the need to amend our existing law in accordance with the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European acquis. And because of the inclusion of an additional number of new overall measures, actually replace it with a whole new bill. In the context of the accession process, this process is related to Chapter 4 of the freedom of movement of capital where the criterion is set that the Republic of Croatia should adopt an action plan containing both the activities and the deadlines by setting specific measures aimed at harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of preventing money laundering with a acquis relating to the European Union. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Action Plan on 31 January 2008 and the applicant took into account the implementation of the measures set out in the action plan when preparing the text of this proposal. The applicant also took into account the report on the third round of anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures implemented by the Council of Europe Manival at the end of 2006 where this report contains a detailed analysis of the applicable rules and institutional framework and practical implementation of anti-money laundering measures. The summary of the Committee is and is determined as follows. It has been concluded that Croatia has taken steps to improve its system against money laundering and terrorist financing. It is also largely consistent with the system when it comes to implementing measures to prevent and detect money laundering, but it also found that insufficient measures are needed to conduct customer depth analyses. That the existence or lack of an assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing by the applicants of the implementation of the prescribed measures and the absence of specific measures to establish a specific relationship with the so-called ‘. politically exposed persons. All these things have led the legislators to properly harmonise the preventive legislation with EU legislation, i.e. with the EC Directive, and through the adoption of this law, to address the following basic issues, which is to define the basic basic concepts of money laundering and terrorist financing, as appropriate and I think it is very important to extend the circle of taxpayers to implement measures in the area of preventing money laundering and financing of tourism and to companies for the issue of electronic money, companies that provide certain payment services, and to include the transfer of money, and legal persons related to the organisation of gambling, Internet or telecommunications. Introducing specific provisions relating to the identification of parties and potential real owners, extending the obligation to notify suspicious transactions in cases for which there are justified reasons, and introducing the possibility of party behaviour based on a risk assessment that will allow the bonds to take certain actions at their own discretion. In addition, the introduction of the concept of foreign political crimes and persons in accordance with the EC Directive on which the Secretary of State has said something in particular, I also believe that it is very important in the draft law to prohibit the introduction or opening of anonymous savings accounts on the password or the consignor, i.e. in a simple dictionary, to those who allow the concealment of the party's real identity. Restrictions in cash business, and I said in the introduction that so far it's been 2,200 kuna. The census is now reduced to 100000 kuna, i.e. more than 100 000 kuna, i.e. 15 thousand euros when it comes to non-recidents, and it is certainly also related to the sale of goods, services, sale of real estate, receipt of loans, and other securities. And the restriction on that cash collection applies to all legal and natural persons who receive cash in their registered activities. Systematic control of a specific category of obligors, in particular involving new bodies, and certainly more detailed arrangements, modernisation, international cooperation with foreign bodies. Introducing the possibility of issuing orders for regular monitoring of the party's business in case of suspected money laundering or financing of tourism, as well as the expansion of the total circle of state bodies that promote orderly processing of cases. This includes, of course, the regulation of criminal provisions, fines for infringements arising from violations of the provisions of this law, and also transitional and final provisions are prescribed. What is here in this part of the task of the new law is the principles which, on the basis of the existing proposal, do not deviate from the current principles of the current law, are only as such a matter of implementation, including new international measures and standards in the Croatian legal order, with the aim of protecting citizens of the Republic of Croatia and its institutions from the consequences of money laundering and tourism financing, thus seeking to upgrade the existing system of money laundering and terrorist financing, thereby making it even more effective. It is predicted that the adoption of this bill will not directly affect the increase in budgetary expenditure for state bodies, as the system for preventing and detecting money laundering has already been established. But it certainly needs to be complemented and extended specifically to those areas related to the prevention of terrorism. Since this bill proposes the harmonisation of Croatian preventive legislation, and in particular to the area of money prevention and terrorist financing, it is proposed that this bill be adopted by means of an urgent procedure, bringing together first and second readings with its entry into force 1.1.2009, in particular because of the education of all those groups of debtors participating in its application, i.e. implementation, and Mr President of the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this proposal by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11430	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11431	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the debate, I would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the text in question of the draft law, as it also qualitatively improves existing solutions in addition to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legal gains of the European Union, and whose shortcomings have been observed during the previous application in practice. In addition to the objectives of foreign policy, the text also supports the objectives at national level and adapting to international standards and measures in the system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. This creates preconditions for increased interaction and cooperation between the body, the bodies of prevention, surveillance, prosecution and other issues with a view to strengthening the efficiency of the system. In short, I will try to explain the reasons why we support the text in question, but I would also like to point out perhaps some open questions about this issue. The accompanying materials that clarify the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be regulated by law, and the consequences that the law will bring forward are visible as follows. Money laundering is an activity in banking, monetary and other transactions with the aim of hiding the real source of money, i.e. property or the right to supply money which is known to have been obtained illegally. With the existing regulation that regulates the matter of preventing money laundering as well as other regulations, above all I mean the Penal Code, the Foreign Exchange Act, the Bank Act as well as others. The past period has laid the basis for the development of a preventive system in the area of the prevention of money laundering. The Committee of Experts for the Assessment of Anti-money Laundering Measures and the European Union's financing of terrorism during 2006 has pointed to some facts. First of all, insufficient measures to carry out a customer depth analysis, there is no risk assessment of money laundering and terrorist financing by an obligation to implement the prescribed measures. To the absence of specific measures to establish a business relationship with so-called ‘. Politically exposed persons are referred to as lawyers, public notebooks, tax advisers, accountants and auditors for the lack of comprehensive and detailed statistics on the effectiveness of the entire system as well as partial discrepancies with international standards in the field of preventing terrorist financing. With this proposal, the Republic of Croatia will use the same standards as the Member States of the European Union in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, by harmonising the terms of a category apparatus in terms of money laundering and terrorist financing, by extending the scope of the obligation to implement measures, introducing restrictions in cash management, systematically regulating the implementation of supervision, by regulating international cooperation with foreign authorities, as well as extending the circle of state authorities and institutions that will encourage the competent Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering to process cases. Following this, we believe that the draft law is written in order and with an emphasis on increasing speed and efficiency in implementing measures and principles of interactive national international co-operation. In addition, to implement international measures and standards in the Croatian legal order in order to protect citizens of the Republic of Croatia and its institutions from the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing, which will enable them to exercise quality, or more systematic surveillance and ensure global access to international standards. We would like to point out some open issues about this issue, by analysing the proposed solutions of information from the field that come to us say that the bill is very solid, but because of the urgency and shortness of time at its work, a quality debate with experts at lower levels within and outside the Ministry of Finance may not be sufficiently conducted, and given the importance of the problem, it is necessary. We also point out that the adoption of the law will increase the scope and structure of the task of the Office for the Prevention of Money Rights and of some other supervisory bodies as a result of the expansion of the circle in certain obligors. Also, for any serious action, it is necessary to carry out appropriate organisational operational and other procedures, with particular reference to the operational framework among competent institutions. Only by building appropriate capacity to implement the necessary measures can it meet new tasks and standards in this area. However, we point out once again that the HSS Club supports the proposal for the law in question, but also points to perhaps open issues that we hope the competent institutions will take all the necessary activities and measures to make any minor problems in its implementation, which will not affect its effectiveness. In addition, we believe that there is room for individual specific issues and laws to be qualitatively regulated and procedurally simpler sublaws that are in the power of the finance minister. As the proposed law specifically builds on the provisions related to the prevention of terrorist financing, we think of classical radiological, chemical, nuclear and biological terrorism, in addition to the above mentioned particular, we would like to highlight the fact that the Republic of Croatia as the chairman of the United Nations Security Council's Anti-Terrorist Department has the possibility to participate more actively in preventive action initiatives, which can be particularly appreciated and evaluated. The UN resolutions seek and encourage co-operation in this area and recognise the problem as global, regardless of whether it is a member or a degree of development. Terrorism itself is a global problem and has the potential to cause huge economic and psychological damage. In response to the fight against terrorism, various models develop from its protection. For example, the Republic of Croatia passed a Coast Guard Act which partially touches this matter. The Double-Intent Export Act and is a signator of various conventions and agreements on the fight against terrorism. Since terrorism is probably financed from all over the world and has access to numerous sources of funding, one of the models of protection against terrorism is also global surveillance of its financial flows with the aim of speeding up terrorists, and informing the entire financial market surveillance system is important. In particular, after 9/11, criticism was targeted by informal networks for sending money to the benefit of most emigrants, indicating the need to fight terrorist financing at all levels. And once again, I point out that the HSS Club will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11432	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11433	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. We passed the Money Laundering Act back in 1997, then we updated it in 2003, we passed a whole series of other laws that should, clearly, prevent such behaviour, whether it was the Foreign Exchange Act, and then the Law on Liability of Legal Persons. This was adopted during the third-month administration as well as the Banks Act, etc. The key element of this Act is the bank's obligation to inform the Office of the Prevention of Money Laundering of all cash transactions of more than 200,000 kunas or to notify the Office, to be more precise about all suspicious transactions. What's going on here with this law? So far, only banks, savings banks, exchange offices, insurance companies have had that obligation, and from now on it will be or will be on public notebooks, which may have to be reported first, and then lawyers will also need to report it, and tax advisers, etc. Now if we know that these persons are mostly lawyers protected by a business secret, I don't know how these provisions will be implemented. I think it's gonna be here on that people's side, shaking the hills, and eventually nothing will come out of it. But to do something about it anyway, I don't think there's any doubt about it. Countries in transition are freely said to be Eldorado for dubious capital. We follow the events at the crime scene in Croatia and see how well the Croatian and Serbian mafia cooperates. There are ideologies, like these events from the '90s are no obstacle to them. On the other hand, how much income or revenue the Croatian underworld generates, i.e. The Croatian mafia is not easy to tell at this time. We know, however, that their money is increasingly invested in construction, to invest in the purchase of different companies. They started buying hotels, real estate after the inn, and it's certainly not about small money. Some mention that only drug traffickers turn about 200m euros a year and more, as they will say, on the Croatian market clearly, what they will say is that in the case of heavy ones, between billions and two billion kunas. I recently read that only one mob family from Calabria has an annual income like Slovenia and Estonia combined. The darkness is mentioned in these figures of 44 billion euros. In both Italy and Croatia, this money is clearly made from drug trafficking, prostitution, racketeering, interest rate. It is clear that this money is then invested in the construction industry, real estate is purchased, but unlike Croatia, if one such drug boss is caught in Italy, then it is followed and seized by all those assets that he had until then, which I dare say in Croatia, an impossible mission. We're all driven by these jeeps, as they're called, "porshee." They live in elite Croatian destinations or in elite Croatian parts of these large cities. They're seen as unemployed, as maids, etc. as it was in an Istrian case or just as catastrophic, they run a prison business. And today I read somewhere that a prisoner overdosed in Split's prison. If the Calabrian mafia's income is 44 billion euros, then know that part of that family's money is certainly mafia, and in Croatia. Although on the other hand I have the impression that the Croatian market is relatively closed, it is certainly part of that capital in those areas. Where I don't know, but I suppose it is, but I'm not in charge of investigating it, that's what someone else is in charge of. Otherwise organised crime in Italy annually says about 100 billion euros, of which they literally calculated 23 billion euros from drugs, 4.7 billion from money laundering, 4.1 billion from greening, etc. So only this Italian Kalabrian mob family invests about 5 billion euros annually in Germany. Now if he invests in Germany that has far more rigorous laws and controls, then to assume that part of the money comes to Croatia as well. If the gross social product of one Italy is a thousand billion euros, then some say that the mafia in Italy is about 10% off. It's probably an exaggeration, but 5% of it could be in Italy one real figure of how much that money turns over these mob families. Now the question arises, if the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia is about 300 billion kuna, how much is the share of these 300 billion kunas, these Croatian mafia families. Probably not 5% of gross social product as in Italy, but you can freely say that 1% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia at this time is being waste on the Croatian mafia. That's about three billion kuna, that's certainly huge money. Now it's clear that those who write about it will get under quotes, with a stick on their heads. The last one in a row was Dusan Miljus and that baseball democracy to express myself or the bat democracy, should be clearly ordered and said no. This must not happen in Croatia, it must not be tolerated in any way. But where is this problem? I say in immorality, maybe all the authorities. If no gentlemen have asked anyone so far where did you get the first million euros or the first million dollars all one thing and today because someone in the 1990s didn't ask you where you came from, and he doesn't ask you today, that first million euros, you become a column of cariatide of this society. If no one asks the tycoons where do you get the money for companies, businesses, hotels you've acquired I don't know 92, 93 or 95 all one thing, then clearly why ask some others. However, it is clear that it must be asked, I dare say both of them how they got the money. For example, Goran Strok talked about an extortion, and he did absolutely well what he said. He said that because of 200,000 euros, his blackmail failed for 6 or 7 months at the Bellevue Hotel in Dubrovnik and that he lost 5m euros because of it, but did not say how much he came to the hotel. Today, our criminals are no longer just beaten heads, these are today and the rights of the walking gentlemen I don't know in the boss's team of suits and driving these "porshee's" jeeps. But what is also typical of Croatia? Croatia has done almost nothing for the past 15 years, I dare say we have done less than nothing in this matter. I almost dare to claim that we spent more on salaries, on the office's material costs of that famous Money Laundering Prevention Office than they did on money laundering. In this country, people respond if they receive a gift worth 300, 500 ma let it cost a thousand kuna, as in the case of this cashier from HEP. I'm not saying there wasn't anything bigger, but 300 or 500 or because of 300 or 500 kuna worth of burning someone in custody for a year, it's largely saying that this social system is kind of falling apart, that all moral values simply or values are being questioned and that is, among other things, evidence of the incompetence of the institutions. Otherwise, Mr. Mladen Bajic, when it comes to money laundering, said that this office, which I say spends more on wages than it prevents money laundering, suspended financial transactions amounting to an axis of 5 million 647 thousand euros in 2007. He temporarily seized 17.4m kuna, lasting 349 thousand 445 euros. 349 thousand 445 means the euro has been permanently taken away. That's, what's that? That's about 2.5 million kuna. So, money laundering at the annual level according to Mr. Bajic's data is difficult 40 million kuna. On the other hand, we know that this mob of ours, if it turns between a billion and two billion kunas from drugs alone, means on an annual level there is its participation of about 1% of the gross social product. So in one word this system in Croatia when it comes to money laundering or prevention, preventing money laundering is not working,'come on in 2007, maybe it was one... For years, 5.6 million euros is kind of hitchhiked, but we see the money ourselves, all at sixteen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's worse, these people, after they wash that money, become pillars of society, become prominent citizens, become entrepreneurs whose past is clearly dark, but who in Croatia cares about it. Here in this country, we're not gonna ask anyone where they got the first million euros from. What is the purpose of this law? Therefore, the prohibition of opening or keeping anonymous savings book accounts on the password or the consignor or other products that allow for the concealment of the party’s real identity and the prohibition of the business of the obligor with the apparent banks. Then, the restriction in the cash business in such a way as not to be allowed in the Republic of Croatia in cash in the amount exceeding 105 thousand kuna or in non-resident transactions exceeding EUR 15 000, systematic control and control over certain categories of taxpayers, before all including new bodies as primary supervisors in the existing bond control system, etc., etc. But what will eventually come out of all this? If there's really no consensus on these issues, I'm afraid it's not going to be good and it's not going to be anything. And if nothing really is achieved then it won't be good for society, it won't be good for the economy, for the country, it won't be good for our children who can really find themselves in any kind of temptation. It clearly then undermines the confidence of the police, in the judiciary, in politics. Although I would dare say so, that there is no worse mafia than the judicial mafia, whether it assigns a tourist plot like in "The Gardens of the Sun" or in Istria, whether this famous judge today in Free Dalmatia is a disgraced judge, the title of the mud judiciary - a revealed verdict not to tell whom, declared dead and not to know how many heirs etc. And now let one such judge judge judge you so you better judge for yourself. But let's let it go now. It would be good to discover in this country the attackers of one Dusan Miljuš, Milan Krinokuć, Tonča Turic, Mark Škrob, Bruno Orusar, Mirko Schveps, Bonačić and Zagorec, as well as Mislav Žagar, as well as Boza Prko, Kuljiš, Radjenović, etc. Some may have been close to that underworld, but the vast majority of them got out of the mob because they were fighting the mob. The first step is a clear warning, the threat then comes burning, maybe blowing up the car and then at the end of the bullet. In the game we all know big money and those who stand in their way, and in the game is 1% of the gross social product, you will be removed if we do not approach them. And in order not to bow down to them, in order not to bow down to them, I know that it takes courage, that the laws need people, that they need people, that they need a lot of will, that they need courage, that they don't bow down to honesty, and that people who do this work in this country have to be paid and rewarded. And the truth is, what we've been shining for 18 years now is kind of reaping. The system has created exactly the fertilization of these individuals. When they were at the beginning, it was easy to deal with them. This did not happen then, and today unfortunately with the vast majority of them will be almost impossible to cope with, because as I said they became pillars... Guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11434	Thank you. You've come to the end of your time. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. So that we can even discuss this proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism that we see here, as we see the very labels of European law, so it goes into emergency procedure and we don't have the opportunity to discuss it in two readings. But that's why I think it's time and place to talk about the current situation, as well as what the results are, the current effects of the current law on the prevention of money laundering as well as the effects of the office itself, which is the supreme body, set up by law and responsible for the effects of the prevention of money laundering. Croatia today has no concern at all about the possibility of dirty money, the Monivola report says, even funding terrorist organisations, and other abuses and malfeasances not to be spoken of. So it's only one part of Monivol's report, the bodies in charge of fighting money laundering in Europe. And so it is concluded there that Croatia has become a new paradise for dirty money. Is it our destiny that we in Croatia truly declare our beautiful land a laundromat of dirty money? In particular, it should be very realistic and not mitigate the situation and images, as it was done in the assessment of the situation, unrealistically. It is then claimed that the efforts of the Republic of Croatia in the area of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are being assessed positively. On the contrary, the administrative opposite is the situation. That is why we have today and today we are discussing a new Bill on the Prevention of Money Laundering. But as the fight against corruption, and as well as the fight against money laundering, first of all it is not paper, but serious will and coordination of all state bodies, but not just state bodies, then I have to say be realistic and admit some things to change things for the better. I believe deep down that it's a common goal for all of us here. A particular chapter in the report, it speaks of one defeating fact, that in the past 10 years, as far as the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering of the Croatian Court of Justice is concerned, the cases of money laundering have not been dealt with in general, and in order to do so in an adequate way, when there is no penalty in the law for the basic work of money laundering, and then there are no acts. What was done in the Croatian Parliament when it was seen? The conclusion is an administrative amendment to the law. We complained at the SDP club, such a conclusion, as an illegal, anti-constitutional way of determining criminal offences and laws. And now we've been waiting for years for the Constitutional Court to respond, so the question arises, and what has been experienced by a court epilogue, which will be with such decisions, or whether these persons will be released, or whether more states will pay them compensation if they are in prison. However, here is how the report, we need to see that we did not have our own reports, through foreign reports to find out what is going on in Croatia, and here in the judiciary itself. He says there are only two cases in which 14 people have been indicted, but today there is no judicial epilogue. It has also been warned that in the case of Croatian mail, an institution dealing with monetary signals, there is no literal quote: "applicable regulations which could be monitored and controlled by the flow of money." This is a very detailed report, which was systematically drawn up on 200 pages by the Council of Europe Committee and concluded that the very dirty money in Croatia is mostly coming through accounts, no numbers and fake names. Why is this report important? I would, here we ourselves are now masochistically experiencing ourselves on this tax report, rather than seeing what apart from this paper way of thinking and some better solutions in this bill should be done to the common forces in their own unification of some of our important and prestigious institutions, i.e. which should play a dominant role here. Financial manipulations, further in the report, do not take place, first said they are going according to a known pattern, under which dirty money is easily transferred to Croatia with offshore companies and funds right through resident accounts. That's what we've been warning about here for years. However, in the Croatian financial system, it is possible, the report says, to manipulate dirty money without an offshore company. In a kind of exotic country, in a way, that cash should be put into the payment system by depositing on the giro-accounts of a loan company. It's a fixed modus operandi. Then, some non-transparent loans and business between employees and partners of the company. Based on an analysis conducted by the Council of Europe Committee over the Ministry of the Interior, it concluded that illegal assets can also be washed without malfeasance in Croatia with bills, and most often by buying real estate and expensive cars. Experts all the way from Strasbourg believe that although huge capital is spinning, the funds turned by the mafia, but that worrying assets are currently spinning in economic crime about 170m euros, and today we don't have the necessary economic incrimination, we have socialistic incriminations that every year warns us about the State's attorney's report, where it says they don't have any real legal regulations, so that they can process something that scandals the public, ordinary citizens, and that can't experience even persecution, and if something does, it still doesn't end in courts. The dominant group in Croatia in the crime mile that have transformed their faces over the past 17, 18 years, transformed almost their character, but also their equal work. They've come such a long way in those last 17, 18 years, of those most brutal forms of mobstering, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, racketeering, money smuggling, the most harsh physical liquidation of competitors. They enjoyed then a high patronage of untouchableness, all those 90 years. But today these characters, these '90s characters, they're the end of the '90s, almost welcomed as the unbroken king's underworld. But they came out of the underworld and became an integral part of the underworld. You can see them in the hotel lobby, you can see them at donor dinners, like very sensitive and grateful people. Who's to blame? It's our fault. Today, they are respected businessmen, dignitaries who build not apartments, who build almost half a quarter of the cities, business and housing facilities, buying you see hundreds of thousands of squares of agricultural land that as soon as they buy, behold, miracles, becomes building. And our construction of grandfathers and great-grandfathers overnight becomes agricultural. This is what happens to us here that we warn of such things. And now, how do you place that money? Of course, in construction, in other jobs, but it is generally seen that this capital is rapidly fertilized. They don't have time to wait like ordinary citizens do. So it is invested in local leadership, often, in a local government, in architects, in urbanists, in bankers, but also in some media that will celebrate such wonderful ventures. So, you see, in a situation like this, there are still people who want to do their job. Such a man is Dusan Miloš, such a man is Igor Radinovic. Such people were before them, such people, so let the system not be put to sleep, there will be after them. Which won't go away. It is these people who give hope, give faith that we have a chance to become a courteous country. Therefore, the question arises why we at the Ministry of Interior do not have special anti-mafia departments, or offices that would then have such provisions. Do you remember that commendable action and promises that hundreds of those who have been prosecuted as mobsters will be checked out of their property. How did this grand scheme that was celebrated and praised in the media end? He fell on the first step. And how? Obstructed inside, because first he came into the hands of those who were on that list. And then what are we talking about? And no one answered how that document came out, who gave it. Therefore, this should be done primarily, and it is an powerless office itself that does not have such an operation, but therefore, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, anti-mafia departments in the police department, a police decree that will deal with such things rather than heroic acts of arresting children with marijuana. Come on, please, where the state's money is being spent. And here we make frequent parades with suggestions that don't then experience their success. The basic observation was how to make the office more efficient, there was thinking that it would become an integral part of USKOK, that would be the right thing, not that USKOK would be written for months from one side to the other. Because where's the money prevention office? Does anyone here know where the money prevention office is hiding? Somewhere in the premises of FINA lost as well as its important and important social role. It must not be so, the Money Prevention Office should cooperate closely and... Partly to make it more efficient, that's for sure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because so far, the structure shows that he could not have been in this way independent or efficient of him should be singled out of the Ministry of Finance and become one department, a special department of USKOK. Then they'd have their full independence, their high wages, they'd be untouchable. If we really want to catch up with this big problem, not to declare ourselves a money laundromat, that's an emergency for us to do. One more note, it is not good in the law that the office, that the tasks of the Office for the Prevention of Money are only in Article 56, only in Chapter IV, should the reverse concept be made, therefore, done, given... Which is, who's in charge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's the main office, and all of these bodies, all these entities that are now expanding and it's good to expand, so they're not just the state's informants, they're the auxiliary bodies that are consciously supposed to carry out and contribute to the prevention of money laundering, but greater affirmation, the greater role, that it's visible from the very text of the law, not just from the description of the actions that separate you Subjects make up, the office should be found first. [[Intruder: Bring the end, your time is up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11436	Thank you. I once again ask the MPs, it has become a rule to time itself, so I ask you to stick to that time. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, proposing representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has established a model to prevent money laundering since 1997 and to prevent money laundering, as well as to identify and determine money laundering and terrorist financing as criminal offences to prevent the misuse of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. This has also been accepted and then a valid majority of international standards and measures in the system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. To date, however, the International Community has adopted new international standards and measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, which were the basis of Croatian legislation, the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. I'd like to touch the goals here and the consequences that the law will bring to life. As already stated in this law, international measures and standards are included in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and the law itself bears the label of European law. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the entire system of money laundering and terrorist financing and the protection of the financial system of the Republic of Croatia will be improved. The introduction of restrictions in the cash business will reduce the risk, abuse of the use of the financial system of the Republic of Croatia, the introduction into the system of unsecured cash funds of higher amounts with a view to pointing to both natural and legal persons who use large amounts of cash of unknown origin in their business. It also ensures more systematic and thorough supervision of bonds in implementing measures to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing. At the same time, more effective sanctions and measures are set out in cases of non-compliance with the prescribed legal provisions and ultimately ensure a global approach in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in accordance with international standards where possible beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to link the law we are discussing in this point with the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, but I will say something about it when the fourth item of the agenda comes. It means the final draft law on the financial inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to what has been said so far in the debate from the promoters in the materials that we have received, of course, I believe that I should support the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11438	Thank you. I shall inform only that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report for 10 minutes in 12 hours and 55 minutes. Thank you very much. A further individual debate. Dear Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues have been torturing and burdening human society in nature with the same or similar problems. Since the ages, the development of a society has stalled and challenged the same or similar negativity. Only in different and more perfect forms. Also, the society's economy is burdened by the same or similar negative economic phenomena; unemployment, inflation, the grey economy, tax evasion, failure to pay dues, litigation, bankruptcy, money laundering and the like. Although we could exclude from the field of vision anything that could spoil a beautiful picture is undeniable that there were always those in society who wanted a society where they could exist without principles and those who wanted a society where there was no work. Although one for political purposes long ago said a message that no one should ever be tired of helping their people could be seen as a cheap demagogue pamphlet, I personally believe that no one should ever be discouraged in life and in action within the framework of positive legal regulations, respecting the fundamental freedoms of every individual man and the fundamental values of society. But at the same time, fighting forces that oppose such life and action. Follow money and finance terrorism is illegal, anti-human and socially unacceptable. Ideal society implies the perfection of relationships in all segments of social life but in practice, an ideal society has not yet been built and neither is it realistic to expect. On the intentions, intentions and activities of those who influence the construction of society, as well as the trends and directions of certain phenomena, we can be sure of what kind of society we live in and predict what kind of society we build and what kind of society we want to live in and what society we want to leave in the legacy of the next generations. So I welcome every form of fight against all activities and protagonists that have a negative impact on building a more beautiful, more orderly and civilized social life. This proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is indeed a direct form of combating the gravest destroyers of economic and social life. This bill also implements international measures and standards in Croatian legislation to create a legal framework to protect the Republic of Croatia and its institutions against the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing, but also to upgrade the existing system to achieve the effectiveness of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. There are several reasons for the adoption of this law but are the most important alignment with European Union legislation, implementation of the action plan and recommendations of the Council of Europe. The most important thing for those highlighted in this law is the introduction of a cap on cash business to all legal and natural persons carrying out their registered activity and not to make a payment in cash in excess of 105 thousand kuna, i.e. the introduction of a ban on the use of anonymous products or anonymous bank accounts. Although there is no society where there are no money laundering activities, I find it pretentious that Croatia is a paradise for dirty money. Official reports and international and domestic institutions suggest that Croatia has taken certain steps to improve the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. The third Manival report of 16 April 2008 quoted me as saying: "The anti-money laundering measures are largely in line with international standards and criminal responsibility is extended to legal persons as well. However, to some extent, crime in money laundering exceeds international standards, for example, predicting crime in money laundering. The Croatian Financial Reporting Unit or the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has no mandate for research but only for the time being effectively, even with an insufficient number of employees, collects transaction data and transfers reports to other bodies." That the office really works and acts according to expectations confirms many official data. For example, in the last 10 years, the office has analysed and completed 23 thousand 438 suspicious transactions with 2 thousand 122 open cases with suspicion of hiding the real source of money and 9000 969 established participants in open cases. In total, 524 items worth 87 million 724 thousand 389 kuna were submitted to the competent authorities for further treatment. Of which to the State Attorney's Office of 187 cases, 24 cases to USKOK, 126 MUP... The official pages of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia show that 119 persons have been reported for the crime of money laundering in the last 10 years. [[The speaker is not understood because of the interference in the video.]] That 67 requests were filed for investigation and that 47 were brought on charges and 15 final convictions. At the same time, 11 persons were issued a warrant for the blockade. It is therefore not surprising but also encouraging the fact that the 2008 State Department report no longer produces "Country Report" for the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia does not consider it important to launder money and finance terrorism. Since this proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing will also contribute further to the fight against financial distortions, and since I do not want a society where there will be no work-free wealth, I will vote for this law and because of the faith that it will contribute to the development of society as we wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11440	Thank you. Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11441	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, it is my special honor to welcome Mrs. Slavica Plecic and Mr. Hans Maros here today. So, the leaders in the first case when it comes to the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate, that is, from today on, I hope the Financial Inspectorate in the Republic of Croatia and the head of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I will immediately say that the picture of Croatia that I am looking at and the picture of Croatia standing in front of me is far brighter and more beautiful than we had the chance to hear earlier. I really cannot agree with the findings of individual colleagues who persistently in this Assembly of the Republic of Croatia are trying to show one black, dark, dark picture because it really is not. Because the Croatia as I see it is much brighter, it is a much nicer country and country. So, as in many cases so far, there is one legal solution that is in line with the acquis of the European Union and, of course, proposes to be adopted in an emergency procedure, so the first and second readings are united, which is quite understandable. The foundations of the development of the preventive system in us I will not particularly speak here, but I will mention '97. a year as the year when the foundations are established. Because there were also remarks here that this system had not developed enough. However, if it's '97. The established basis for the development of this system means that both the system is constantly in development and, after the adoption of this law, it is likely that today, tomorrow when international standards change, when circumstances change in our environment, that system will need to be further updated. What I would like to emphasise is that the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering in 1997 is based on the fact that, in the framework of the Ministry of Finance as a completely autonomous and independent financial and intelligence unit, the Office for the Prevention of Money, as well as the definition of money laundering in 2003 or the fourth year and the financing of terrorism as special offences, finally established a model of preventing and combating the abuse of our financial system for the purposes of these phenomena. Thus, in this way, a legislative and institutional framework for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing has been established in the Republic of Croatia, which is broadly in line with international standards. This means that in our prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, we use the same standards as in the Member States of the European Union, which is something I will say about later, but as confirmed through relevant international documents, i.e. documents from international institutions. The central place in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing under the current, but also under the proposed law is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which is set up as a central analytical service in accordance with international standards. Its main role is also to carry out preventive analytical, supervisory and educational tasks, i.e. tasks. This means that the office as a body of prevention, nor according to international standards, nor under the law is competent for police investigations, is not competent to do police reconnaissance, but is the task and role of all other institutions in this country. So that's one, so that this system as a whole could function in quality. Therefore, preventing the occurrence of forms of money laundering that are in its essence activities in banking, monetary and other business with the aim of concealing the right sources of money or any other property suspected of being obtained illegally in the country or abroad is not in the jurisdiction of only one institution. Therefore, it is not only in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, but also of other participants which this law defines precisely. System participants can be classified into three categories. I'm not going to list them here in particular, but I'm going to mention three of the most important categories. These are the bodies of prevention within which the bonds of the system are also a very important link, because other colleagues talked about what is the task and obligation of the system's obligor, supervisory authorities. Therefore, the bodies of the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, etc. Then, the law enforcement bodies, the police, the state's attorney's office, the judiciary whose role I'm not going to talk about specifically. Therefore, for the effective and successful functioning of the entire system of prevention and control of money laundering and terrorist financing, close and unreserved co-operation of all system participants is necessary, and here I particularly stress the need for international cooperation. So, the cooperation of our Money Laundering Office with other financial and analytical or intelligence units of other countries, which our office does regularly. I find it necessary to especially highlight two facts. First, the fact that the Croatian Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is really working closely with other countries' financial and intelligence units through its active participation in the International Association of Financial Intelligence Units made up of 107 members, and within the Council of Europe Committee for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, as well as the fact that the assessors of all relevant international institutions have assessed the Croatian model of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing as modern and effective, and largely in line with international standards, and the functioning of our office is almost impeccable and exemplary. Given that the International Community has, meanwhile, adopted new standards and measures in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing, it was therefore necessary to make an amendment to the law, i.e. the adoption of a new law on resolving these problems in society, and that is the basic reason why today the proposal for a completely new law is in front of us. The main reasons why this law is proposed is the implementation and adoption of international standards, i.e. the Directive and recommendations of the Council of Europe, which were required by the members of the European Union to implement in their legal systems until 15 December of last year, and the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's action plan relating to Chapter 4. - Freedom of movement of capital in which the central measure is just the adoption of a new law. It should also be stressed that the principles of this law are not more significant than the principle of a law currently in force, but are purely about introducing new international standards, but also about eliminating the shortcomings of individuals identified by the Committee of Experts to assess measures against money laundering and the financing of terrorism of the Council of Europe. It should also be said that the proposed law fully and appropriately regulates the area of prevention of terrorist financing, unlike the current law, which adequately regulates only the area of money laundering. At the end of my presentation or debate, just a few more sentences about the most significant newspapers adopted by the new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. I'll just count them. A risk assessment obligation shall be introduced for clients and transactions, hence by the obligors, restrictions shall be imposed in the cash business for all legal and natural persons carrying out a specific activity above the amount of 105 thousand kuna. A ban on the use of anonymous products is introduced, the concept of politically exposed persons is introduced, the circle of the debtors is expanded and in one appropriate way is determined and effectively are determined by this Law of Sanctions for those who violate and do not apply the law in the manner that it is regulated. Therefore, it is about implementation into our legal system, i.e. in our law of all those recommendations or shortcomings observed by the Council of Europe. For all of what I said earlier, but also from my personal belief that this law will further contribute to the improvement and effectiveness of the Croatian system for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, and that the Republic of Croatia, a colleague of Maric, I would like to stress this, remains a destination that, according to any international criteria of all relevant international institutions, is not important in order to be monitored in terms of a destination that is suitable for carrying out these unholy activities. So for all these reasons, I will support this law absolutely and unconditionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11442	Thank you. And we end an individual debate with distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11443	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard in a series of discussions before this one, the most important paper passed by the proposed law in relation to the current law is the introduction of an assessment and analysis of the risk of money laundering, or financial transactions, which the assessment and analysis are obliged to carry out themselves. The importance of this paper is that the introduction of an approach based on a risk assessment in which it forces the obligor to assess his own exposure to money laundering or financial terrorism risks, which has not been the case so far. Thus, the current law was based on the precisely prescribed measures and actions that the bonds had to take, but without an assessment and risk analysis for the obligor himself. Therefore, this paper achieves that I am a liability to define measures that will take proportionately identified risks. The law also defines 4 measures of deep analysis of the party to which the bonds must be carried out. Two measures were actually passed, so to speak, from now on. It is a measure to identify the identity of the party and to determine the identity of the real owner, and two new measures are a measure to collect data on the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship or transactions and another measure is a measure of continuous monitoring of the business relationship or transaction, in which transactions must correspond to the knowledge of the party, or the type of business the party deals with and even the source of the party's assets. So this depth analysis assumes an important review of the party's business, I would even say opening my own files. In this regard, the most interesting fact is the provision of a law which requires the obligor not to establish a business relationship with the party, or even to break the already established relationship if he cannot implement such measures of depth analysis. And I'm asking you what kind of bank the bank is going to be, because most of the time the banks are going to be in a position to run these deep risk analyses. So, which the bank will give up on big money or a fat bite, here's even when it's risky when it actually has the ability to book for business risks and calculate in the price of its services, and ultimately get all nicely over to honest citizens who, right here in this country, are paying everything anyway. Because the Money Prevention Office, unfortunately, remained invisible and, well, it failed to intimidate any of the potential money launderers. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11444	Thank you. And 5 minutes on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, finally on behalf of the SDP club, which will support this bill, but we do, however, express our regret that maybe there was no time, even though we used to say that our initiatives to make the office more efficient and to make Croatia more efficient in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. We want to draw attention to how, yet finally, how is foreign capital being checked entering Croatia? What are our secret services doing? Whether they work closely with the office and USKOK suspect us, it is doubtless that suspicious capital comes to us in Croatia, buys our non-renewable resources, and that is also one of the important issues. I mean, here are some of these express provisions even in the bill itself, but if there is one good will, of course, this is within these general provisions, and it's quite possible to implement. I'm sorry there's no Secretary of State of Youth here who certainly doesn't know what's going on around certain expositories, outposts, district tax administrations. In fact, it is an unequivocal fact, we have had the opportunity to see it from the thematic session of our Anti-Corruption Council, where our businessmen spoke, but also other people who have had experience in their work, who have also faced corrupt acts. Well, one question would be very interesting. How is it that people who report suspicious transactions, which warn the businessmen, too, how is it that they are then, and after that, subject to it, that we be on the trail of sylogism that uses this bill, our deep analysis of the financial police and the tax administration? This is something that is not by chance and which is already coming across as a very negative and discouraging message to our citizens, and here we want to encourage these entities, not only encourage them, but also force them to be very careful and have very specific and very strict obligations towards customers so that Croatia can fight money laundering more successfully. But it's a bad message, because no one wants either of these businessmen, and so, no matter how they do business, then the Financial Police and the IRS are sent to him except for those regular controls, right after they reported such cases. These are not controversial cases, but they happened in Croatia to anyone who reported them. It's a bad message, or it's a message that says exactly the opposite that we don't have real will then, and I don't want to believe it. We in the SDP simply don't want to accept such a fact that it is. These people need to be encouraged to report and the question is whether there is even one legal solution to protect such people from unfounded and excessive repression and even these deep analyses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11446	Thank you. That concludes the debate. And does he want on behalf of the proposer? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11447	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would just briefly refer to this debate in chronological order on a few points that I would refer to. First of all, there was an observation that this was a solid law that was too quick and not sufficiently discussed. I would simply point out that we consider this to be more than solid, although it is a very good law that has been discussed and given to everyone. When I tell everyone, precisely those who are the most important participants of this law, which are supervisory bodies, above all HANFA, the Croatian National Bank, there are other administrations of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, but also the DORH, but here is the intelligence agency mentioned earlier. What I'd say, I hope, I think, that this distinguished House today will discuss one of these supervisory bodies, it's today's Foreign Inspectorate on its way to the existence of a financial inspectorate. As for criticism at the office's expense, some of the respected MPs also referred to some figures from the international environment, and of course there were figures from the domestic environment. I'd stick to them and actually focus on a few reports from foreign, respected foreign agencies. First of all, this "Manival" mentioned several times today, which is actually very clear and unequivocally saying that the system is largely consistent when it comes to implementing measures to prevent and detect such cases by the Office for the Prevention of Money and that the office is fully functional. Also, as regards the State Department's 2005 report, as I quote in Croatia, "there is no money laundering centre". The best evidence is that they no longer follow us in their report, as well as the report of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which made it very clear as a recommendation to preserve the autonomy and administrative nature of the office as part of the Ministry of Finance. What I would say last in the end, so these cases that are also mentioned and discussed about the insertion of so-called. dirty money in the system, this law is mostly focused on strengthening this supervisory service or supervisory services that are part of this interinstitutional cooperation, this interinstitutional cooperation protocol, that they are strengthened and that such activities and such actions are prevented. So in any case, I'm glad to say once again, to hear that clubs actually and individually advocates supported this law because we are sure that it will contribute to further building a system for preventing and detecting money laundering and financing terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11448	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. We hereby interrupt the morning session and continue at 15.00 hours with item 3 of the agenda Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian National Bank, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 92. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11449	We move on to the final draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 93. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure with the amendments tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please engage, who agrees to conduct the debate first? Let's get involved and vote. The result? Most of the votes, 124 votes for, 7 abstentions, 3 against were accepted to vote and discuss the government's amendments. Prime Minister's amendment, we have here seven amendments. I'm asking the Minister of Finance to show up on the amendments. On Amendment 1 in Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11450	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed amendment lays down the scope of the law only to those entities carrying out their financial activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11451	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and giving the amendment to the vote, please, by raising your hands. Who is for this amendment to Government No. One? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This amendment was adopted unanimously by 142 votes. Amendment 2 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11452	Therefore, the proposed amendment clearly determines the obligations of payment service providers in the electronic transfer of money provided for in Regulation 2006/1781. information on the payer accompanying the transfer of funds. Specific measures are provided for by payment service providers in the case of incomplete data to the payer such as the termination of the business relationship, which is in accordance with the 7th Special Recommendation of the Financial Action Group against Money Laundering, which regulates the electronic transfer of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11453	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the second amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously by 142 votes. We're moving on to the Third Amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11454	The proposed amendments, in accordance with the provisions of point 20 of the preamble to the European Community Directive 2005/60. it shall be determined that there is no exception to the reporting of suspicion of money laundering, i.e. that lawyers and other professional activities are obliged to notify the office whenever the party requests advice on money laundering and terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11455	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the third amendment. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was also adopted unanimously by 142 votes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11456	The proposed amendment clears the office's obligation to provide feedback to the obligor, e.g. the banks on the outcome of the analysis of the seized transaction and on trends, techniques and methods of money laundering and terrorist financing, in accordance with the international standards set out in Article 34 of Directive 6 of 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11457	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in favor of the fourth amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously by 143 votes. We move on to the fifth amendment to Article 67.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11458	Therefore, the proposed amendment harmonised the text of the final draft law with the provisions of Council Decisions 2000/642, Articles 1 and 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11459	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that by 142 votes, this amendment has been unanimously accepted. Amendment 6 to Article 90
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11460	Therefore, the proposed amendment to the text of Article 90. Infringement provisions shall be harmonised with the material provisions of the proposed amendments to Articles 15 and 103 and as set out in Amendments 2 and 7 and shall be uniform in the text of the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11461	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously by 143 votes. And the seventh amendment of the Government to Article 103.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11462	Therefore, the proposed amendment sets out the obligation for banks and other obligors to carry out a deep analysis of the owners or users of anonymous products, which becomes an anonymous product on the date of entry into force of this law, i.e. to identify the owner or user of an anonymous product when the first transaction is carried out by the party, e.g. when raising funds from a bank account.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11463	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was voted unanimously with 142 votes. We are now moving on to the amendments submitted by the Committee on Law to the same law. The first is the amendment to Article 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11464	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11465	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11466	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11467	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 10(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11468	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11469	It's becoming an integral part. Article 12(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11470	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11471	A formulation like this shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11472	Thank you. The wording that has the Government's proposal is accepted. Article 14 fifth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11473	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11474	Same explanation as just before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11475	A formulation read by the minister was accepted. Article 16(6).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11476	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11477	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 17
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11478	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11479	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8 on Articles 27, 43, 52 and 78.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11480	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11481	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9th of Article 32th of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11482	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11483	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11484	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11485	It's becoming an integral part. Article 36 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11486	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11487	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 69 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11488	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11489	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11490	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11491	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 14
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11492	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11493	It's becoming an integral part. in Article 55, point (b) is replaced by the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11494	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11495	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11496	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11497	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 60 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11498	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11499	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11500	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11501	There's a reason for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11502	The accepted formulation read by the minister. Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11503	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11504	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 64 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11505	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11506	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 21 of Article 67 of the Treaty on the Functioning
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11507	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11508	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 71(b) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 is
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11509	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11510	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 74 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11511	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11512	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11513	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11514	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 is
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11515	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11516	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 26 of Article 173 of the Treaty on the Functioning
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11517	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11518	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 27 of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 is
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11519	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11520	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 90, point (b) of the first subparagraph,
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11521	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11522	In this part, he retreats.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11523	Thank you. In that sense, he was withdrawn, and the formulation was as Mr. Minister said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11524	Just a little bit, Mr. President, we still have in paragraph 1 of point 21 that is governed by Amendment number 6 and paragraph 1 point 23, because of the unanimity of the concept through the text of the bill is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11525	This argument is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11526	This formulation shall be accepted. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11527	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11528	It's becoming an integral part. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11529	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11530	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11531	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11532	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 32, in Article 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11533	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11534	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 33, in Article 101, point (a) of the first
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11535	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11536	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11537	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11538	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11539	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11540	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11541	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11542	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11543	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11544	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you. I therefore put to the vote the final proposal of the Law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was adopted by a majority of 136 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11545	We're going back to work. We move to the third item of the agenda - Final bill on the Croatian National Bank, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 92. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Honorable Zdravko Maric of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11546	... National central banks should comply with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the provisions of the Statutes no later than the date of accession of the European Union. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Accordingly, this draft bill has been drawn up to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia fully in line with the applicable legal standards of the European Union in the section relating to the degree of independence of the central bank in terms of institutional, functional, personal and financial independence, the prohibition of lending by the Croatian People's Bank, closer to defining and detailed the objective of the Croatian National Bank in terms of maintaining price stability and other necessary adjustments stemming from the Statutes of secondary sources of European Union law, hence their Regulation, recommendations and other acts governing this area. The proposed law will also ensure the smooth functioning of the Croatian National Bank under the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank as well as the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union, as well as the introduction of the euro as the official monetary units of the Republic of Croatia. Given the part of the text of the applicable law that it was necessary to implement as well as the fact that the applicable text of the law had already had more extensive amendments and additions once before, and that further amendments would question the transparency of such a law, and hence made it difficult to apply it, it was assessed to propose a new text of the law which is before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11547	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The famous Will Rogers long ago said that from the beginning of humanity to this day there are three great inventions of fire, wheel and central banking. Of course, the serious economists of central banking don't consider it an invention, but by doing so Rogers wanted to paint us to the exceptional importance of central banks in the national economy. In fact, the central national bank is the bank of all banks, and thus its basic function becomes the regulation of the state's money supply and the regulation of credit conditions and the impact on interest rates levels. The tasks and objectives of central banks are to ensure that monetary policy instruments available and in the hands of central banks ensure a uniform growth of national production, ensure low unemployment and achieve and maintain price stability, that is to say, control inflation. It is inflation that is the biggest enemy of the central bank, many fear it, and most economists, because they certainly understand that this fear is justified and know that moderate inflation rates can degenerate into hyperinflation and thus lead to many disturbances in the market and national economy. Although Croatia was a witness in the 1990s that the price increase was not under control and that inflation from the register had gone to gallop, the Croatian economy has been running and developing in a stable macroeconomic environment for the past ten years. This confirms, among other things, the data on annual inflation rates between 2000 and 2007 ranging from a minimum of 1.7% to a maximum of 5.8% in 2007. This law on the Croatian National Bank found that the maintenance of price stability is the main objective of the Croatian National Bank. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian National Bank undertakes to support the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia and to act in accordance with the principles of an open market economy and free competition. The role of the Croatian National Bank in the national economy, in achieving industrial growth, increasing GDP, reducing the unemployment rate in preserving the stability of the banking system is extremely important and crucial. This is also evident from the tasks of the Croatian National Bank prescribed by this law, which are the establishment and implementation of monetary and foreign exchange policies, the holding and management of the international foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia and the supervision of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia. Operations on the open market, discount rate policy and reserve policy, so the main instruments of monetary policy, all central banks and thus the Croatian National Bank achieve their tasks and objectives. It should be borne in mind that central national banks at the same time control total consumption in society through monetary policies. The HDZ Club supports this legal framework for the operation of the Croatian National Bank as it allows it to carry out its basic functions, tasks and objectives of the Croatian National Bank of the Republic of Croatia, but also because of the fact that the main reason for proposing this CNB law is to further comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, and all according to the observations made by the European Central Bank and the European Commission on the applicable law. The proposed law will bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the applicable legal standards of the European Union in the section relating to the degree of independence of the central bank as well as the objective of the Croatian National Bank. The proposed law achieves a high degree of institutional, functional, personal and financial independence of the Croatian National Bank. This Proposal for a Law on the Croatian National Bank provides that out of a total of 119 articles of the law, 77 articles will enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "National Journal", and 19 articles of the Law will enter into force from 70th to 87th and 112th of the day of the entry into force of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union while 23 Articles 88 to 110th and Article 113(8) will enter into force on the day of the introduction of the euro as official monetary units of the Republic of Croatia. It is particularly important to point out that this law explicitly sets out the prohibition of the lending of the public sector, which is referred to in Article 40 of the Law, which states that the CNB cannot grant loans to the Republic of Croatia, the extra-financial funds of the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional and regional self-government, public authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and not companies where the Republic of Croatia or units of local and regional self-government have a dominant impact. At the same time, the Croatian National Bank must not buy their debt instruments from these companies. This Proposal for a Law on the Croatian National Bank provides for continuity in the management of the Croatian National Bank, as Article 44(6) provides that all members of the Council, Governor, Deputy Governor and Vice-Governors shall be appointed to six years without restrictions on the number of mandates. Due to all of this, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this Law on the Croatian National Bank, as it creates a legal framework for the independent and uninterrupted operation of the Croatian National Bank in order to achieve the fundamental objective of the CNB to preserve price stability, but also for creating a legal environment in which the CNB will be able to carry out monetary and foreign policy without delay to support economic growth. Therefore, the HDZ Club will vote in favour of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11549	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11550	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, Government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law on the Croatian National Bank contains a significant part of the provisions of the existing Law on the Croatian National Bank and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. The proposed law defines the relationship of the Croatian National Bank with the Republic of Croatia, credit institutions and international institutions and organisations, bodies and institutions of the European Union, the competence and tasks of the Croatian National Bank from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the competence and tasks of the Croatian National Bank after the introduction of the euro as official monetary units in the Republic of Croatia, and is highlighted as the main issues which are regulated by the proposed law. It is prescribed that the obligations of the Croatian National Bank will be guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia and the adoption of the proposed law will bring further harmonisation of the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia with all necessary acts starting with the European System of Central Banks, the European Central Bank and the European Commission. As current legal provisions, the main objective of the Croatian National Bank under Article 3 is to reflect price stability through support for the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia and to maintain the stability of the kuna exchange rate according to other currencies in the course which, in spite of the new law, is not explicitly defined, but is understood through the implementation of monetary and foreign policy measures. As in the previous Act on the Croatian National Bank, Article 4 states that the Croatian National Bank is independent and independent within the framework of the Constitution and the law as a whole of the affairs under its jurisdiction. Article 5(2) defines the notion of a credit institution based in the Republic of Croatia and includes banks, savings banks, residential savings banks, electronic money institutions. The business of all those credit institutions in this article is being brought closer to the proposal for a law on credit institutions which I hope will replace the existing Law on banks, credit unions and savings banks and housing savings, and is expected to enter the parliamentary procedure soon after the public debate is concluded. Article 8 lays down the exclusion of employees and members of the advice of the Croatian National Bank and such a legal solution is also contained in the applicable law. Adopting... the principles of supervisory review paragraph 2 shall constitute a newspaper excluding the responsibility of the Croatian National Bank, members of the advice and employees of the Croatian National Bank for damages committed in the performance of the supervisory and supervisory tasks, unless the damage has been done by deliberate or rude negligence, and paragraph 3 is also prescribed not to be eligible for damage that would possibly have been done by giving an order to the Special Authority for the conduct of the business of the credit institution, unless the damage has been done on purpose or rudely. [[You don't understand.]] However, the responsibility of employees and members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank was unfortunately present during the so-called The first bank crisis that lasted from 91 to 95 and the second bank crisis in early 98 and totalling about $5.45 billion, according to the report of the governor Dr. Mark Škreb, submitted to this Croatian Assembly in April 2000. None of the employees of the Croatian National Bank were responsible for the destruction of 24 banks whose Croatian National Bank granted work permits and was obliged to carry out control and supervision tasks of respecting the legality of business. Employees of the Croatian National Bank, who are now on responsible business in the Croatian National Bank, failed to take the necessary measures and procedures during their temporary work to which they were referred as experts of the Croatian National Bank and the Bank of Dubrovnik and the City Bank, as well as to the Croatian Bank, and which had the consequences of further rehabilitation and the Bank of Dubrovnik, the bankruptcy of the City Bank and the ten years of stagnation and destruction of the Croatian Bank, with Croatia's bank being rehabilitated with 550 million kuna and whose shareholders did not reconcile with the loss of shares on whose value was not decided by the bank's assembly but by the administration of the Croatian National Bank. Following individual disputes received at the Supreme Court, the Republic of Croatia has been sued by the Court of Justice in Strasbourg and is expected to be the subject of talks in the negotiating process with the European Union as well. Article 42 defines the tasks and powers of the advice of the Croatian National Bank. The advice of the Croatian National Bank shall be made by the Governor, Deputy Governor and Vice Governors of the Croatian National Bank in its position and up to eight external members. The advice of the Croatian National Bank is responsible and responsible for achieving the objective and implementation of the tasks of the Croatian National Bank. The Council of the Croatian National Bank sets out policies relating to the operation of the Croatian National Bank and the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia ceases the need for the work of the external members of the Croatian National Bank, but the representation of the Vice Governor is increasing from four to eight. Article 51, as well as the applicable law, defines fully in an identical manner the work and responsibility of the Internal Audit. In this article, the provision of point 2. 2 is of particular importance, which reads "to carry out a periodic review of the work of persons with special powers and responsibilities and of all the organisational parts of the Croatian National Bank in order to ensure strict compliance with the laws and regulations relating to the Croatian National Bank". This provision is in force and in force in the current law, and should be implemented in practice by order of the Governor, Head of Internal Affairs. Is that what's going on? In accordance with the legal provisions and obligations, the Croatian National Bank did not perform after the banking crisis in the 1990s, and neither did the revision of the work of persons with special powers and responsibilities. There were more than enough indications and reasons to do so and thus provide evidence to Croatian citizens of responsibility, responsible and fair before any court proceedings, and this would certainly deserve the legally justified role of an independent and independent monetary authority which is also responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The competent governors, deputy governors, vice governors and persons with special powers and responsibilities, former and current employees of the Croatian National Bank have never given the Croatian citizens an explanation of how it is possible that around 19 billion kunas were spent on the recovery of banks, payment of secured savings deposits, and that none of the employees of the Croatian National Bank who were authorised to issue and withdraw authorisation for the operation of banks, supervision of bank operations and the adoption of sub-legislative rules governing banking operations were responsible or resigned for moral reasons. On the contrary, some of them, meanwhile, have continued to hold responsible responsibilities in the Croatian National Bank. Therefore, the adoption and adoption of this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian National Bank will not do any good to Croatian citizens if the responsible persons in the Croatian National Bank do not carry out legally established tasks and that there are no legal and moral sanctions in the event of breach of the legal provisions. The responsibility for the work of the Croatian National Bank is undeniably borne by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which makes proposals for new laws, and does not take into account whether and how the existing laws have been applied in practice and what damage they have caused for citizens and the economy. In my presentation, I only commented on some articles of the Bill on the Croatian National Bank which are now contained in the applicable law, but their application did not live. The other provisions of the bill are laid down by the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union accession process and I do not think it is necessary to comment. The Croatian People's Party will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11551	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11552	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of the Law on the Croatian National Bank. But here, I would like to look at certain segments of this law and perhaps open certain chapters that will be used for further discussion, possibly improving such a single proposal. Of course, we respect the fact that it is necessary to align between other legal solutions and the Act on the Croatian Bank itself with the acquis of the European Union. And when we look at the current bill and the law that's in force, then we can say that the law actually changes in some minor detail, it doesn't change essentially. Since entry into the European Monetary Union will follow the evaluations some two years after entering the full membership of the European Union, it is certain that there is still enough room for a wider debate if it is shown that the objectives set and these provisions may need to be corrected. The independent position of the Croatian National Bank was also secured by the current law, and this is also ensured by this new bill. In that sense, we can say that nothing changes. The main objective of the Croatian National Bank remains price stability, and given the global inflation situation, the CNB may not be able to fully meet our goal in the HSS, the goals of the CNB should also be to define and implement monetary policies, co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in defining and supporting economic policies, maintaining and managing the foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia and managing the domestic payment system, and this is what we refer to the applicant as a possible complement to the law. Maintaining the main objective of the Croatian National Bank in terms of price stability should certainly be the subject of discussion. In our opinion, it might be more effective to adopt the above objectives that would allow for the management of sovereign monetary policies and support by the CNB of other economic policies, which would not only be in the function of maintaining macroeconomic stability but also in the function of economic policies that would support economic growth and the adaptation of the Croatian economy to the European Union's open market, but also in achieving an appropriate position on the global international market. According to the bill, the Croatian National Bank retains the role of supervision of the banking system. We can say that this is not a common practice in the European Union countries, as more and more EU member states are seeking to unite supervisory over the overall financial system within the framework of specific government agencies outside the central banks. Examples are Germany, Great Britain, Austria, so that's definitely what we need to think about. Compared to the previously announced changes in the governance system of the Croatian National Bank, the new law retains the current solution, if we compare this with the central banks in most Member States of the European Union, they still have slightly smaller and professional bodies. Maintaining the current number of members of the CNB council and the number of vice governors, a total of 8 external members of the council, governor, deputy and 4 vice governors. We must agree that it is quite a large body, so it is our opinion that it might be more constructive and efficient to reduce it, for example the number of governors to a maximum of 3 with the Deputy Governor involved, as well as the number of external members to 5. Similarly, according to this law, the governor of the Croatian National Bank reserves the right to make decisions on some important issues of monetary policy, without consent to the CNB's advice which should not be practice, and in this part we propose certain amendments. Of course, here is what I emphasized HSS will certainly support the proposed Law on the Croatian National Bank and since the governor is not here, I would nevertheless take the opportunity to pass on our congratulations to him on behalf of the HSS Club for the award he received recently as the communicator of the year. We think he really deserved it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11553	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first respected representative of Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11554	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian National Bank, with the Final Proposal of the Law. It is known that in April 2001, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Croatian National Bank, which regulates monetary policy in Croatia, in line with the standards of developed legal states, especially members of the European Union, and this law and set the role of the CNB, which is to achieve and maintain price stability in accordance with the principles of open market economy and free competition. Efforts were made to ensure the independence, independence and institutional, functional, personal and of course of the Croatian National Bank, which means that other institutions and bodies cannot influence its decisions. The main reason for the new law governing the position of the Croatian National Bank is to further comply with the European Union's gains, since the European Commission and the European Central Bank have made their remarks on the existing law. The adoption and application of the proposed law will ensure the smooth functioning of the Croatian National Bank under the European System of Central Banks at the time of accession of the European Union. It's one of those laws that I can't wait for, but it needs to be passed now and it needs to be done by emergency procedure. In this way, the Croatian National Bank will welcome full membership and the introduction of the euro as the official currency of the Republic of Croatia, we believe in the near future. The law before us also contains other adaptations stemming from certain regulations and guidelines, as well as recommendations from the European Union. This law determines the position of the central bank until the entry into the Union, after entry, and after the introduction of the new currency. The law determines that from the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union, the Croatian National Bank is part of the European System of Central Banks. From the day of accession to the day of introduction of the euro, the Croatian National Bank is obliged to conduct a monetary policy that should allow the established economic criteria for the introduction of the euro. Article 71 agrees with the Treaty establishing the European Community. It is prescribed that the Croatian National Bank, members of its bodies, are independent in making and implementing all decisions based on the proposed law in order to achieve their objective and to carry out tasks. Following entry into the European Union, the Croatian National Bank shall not be bound by the instructions of the institutions and bodies of the European Union. It cannot be affected by the governments of the Member States, but at the same time our central bank undertakes to support the general economic policy of the European Community. It is also obliged to respect the common interest of Member States until the introduction of the euro when adopting measures on the domestic exchange rate. The provisions of this law also regulate the expected changes in other regulations, such as the introduction of the concepts of credit institutions, the notion of a system for settlement of payment transactions and others necessary for the purposes of this law. The implementation of the law does not require additional funding from the state budget, and an emergency procedure is necessary in this case, as the law governing the issues of the Central National Bank must comply with the Treaty on the establishment of the European Community and with the provisions of the Statute of the European Central Bank and the European System of Central Banks until the accession of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11555	Thank you. Dear representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The central bank is the supreme monetary authority of a country, it is actually the most important monetary institution of every modern economy. By its characteristics and functions it differs from other financial institutions. Historically, the central banks have in most cases evolved from private banks lending to the state, why the state entrusted them in return with a monopoly on the issue of bank notes. In most countries, the central bank has the capacity to regulate money in circulation and credit emissions for the stability of the value of money, as well as liquidity and insolvency of the economic system, then manage liquidity and insolvency of banks, care for the country's balance sheet and maintain international liquidity, and carry out transactions for the state. In the Republic of Croatia, the function of the central bank is the Croatian National Bank. It is the central bank of the Republic of Croatia whose position, rights and duties are regulated by law. In her performance she is independent, independent and responsible to the Croatian Parliament. After declaring the state independence of the Republic of Croatia, the process of its monetary independence began, therefore, by establishing an independent Croatian central bank. Since then, the Croatian National Bank has established and implements monetary policy, primary money emission policy and controls the work of banks. In defining and implementing monetary and foreign policy, it uses a whole series of measures that are common in the practice of all central banks. In addition to the establishment and implementation of monetary and foreign exchange policy, some of the important tasks of the Croatian National Bank are the holding and management of the international reserves of the Republic of Croatia, the issue of banknotes and coins, the issue and withdrawal of authorisation for the operation of banks, supervision of business banks and the adoption of sublegal regulations governing banking operations. The Croatian National Bank supports the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, acting in accordance with the principles of the market economy. The Law amending and supplementing the CNB Act adopted in December 2006 further strengthened the independence of the Central Bank and created legal assumptions that, on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, the CNB becomes an integral part of the European system of European banks and begins to carry out tasks in accordance with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. It is this independence that is seen through institutional, functional, personal and financial independence. The proposal for a law on the Croatian National Bank, which we are discussing today, is a alignment with the legal property of the European Union, above all in the part relating to the degree of independence of the Central Bank as well as the objective of the Croatian National Bank. The proposed law will also ensure the functioning of the Croatian National Bank under the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank by joining the Republic of Croatia in full membership of the European Union, as well as after the entry into the European Monetary Union. It is also important to stress that the entry into the European Union of the institutions and bodies of the European Union and of the governments of the Member States of the European Union should not affect the independence of the CNB on the decision-making and decision-making of the Croatian National Bank and its bodies, nor should it approve, cancel, postpone or otherwise affect any decision of the Croatian National Bank in its fields of competence as set out in this proposal for a law as set out in Article 71. This bill is extremely important because its provisions regulate the position of the Croatian National Bank until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union, the position of the Croatian National Bank after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the position of the National Bank after the introduction of Euro as an official monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia. For all of these reasons, I am giving full support to the proposal for a law on the Croatian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11557	Thank you. And distinguished representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11558	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues from the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. As my predecessors have said before us is another draft law that we are harmonising with the European Union, and it is clear that we have the basis for its adoption in the Croatian Constitution in two articles, i.e. two sub-paragraphs, and as such we are discussing it on this basis today. It is clear that the Croatian National Bank is the central bank of the Republic of Croatia and that its position, rights, duties, obligations and certain laws. It is also clear that the Law on the Croatian National Bank was adopted in 2001 and therefore a monetary policy has been established in our country and, in accordance with the standards of developing countries and, in particular, the state of the European Union, and certainly, as the primary objective of the Croatian National Bank, it defines both the achievement and maintenance of the price stability that all my predecessors mentioned in the debate. However, it is certainly today in the emerging economic situation throughout Europe, and I dare say throughout the world, especially through two new segments of economic life, which is the price of energy and the price of food gets special importance, and therefore the very role of the Croatian National Bank is greater as an extremely important segment which in a certain way follows and by a law that has been passed anyway and we always like to say it aims to achieve the independence and independence of the Croatian National Bank and therefore it is worth repeating this time. When we talk about these four segments, it is convenient to mention what they are essentially determined in. So when we talk about its institutional independence, it means that it is independent of other institutions and bodies of the state government or of all those who can influence it, certainly when we talk about functional independence, it refers to a clearly set goal of choice, both measure and all instruments of monetary policy itself. In the context and the debate in the Parliament in recent weeks, we spoke very often about the conflict of interest in the protection of external interests, so certainly when it comes to the National Bank itself, it is then personal independence through the protection of members of the Croatian National Bank's body, from its possible external influences very important and therefore one of those three, four factors and this. Finally, this financial independence means that by means of its measures, with the nature of monetary and foreign policy, monetary and foreign policy are determined and spoken in a way that creates revenue for expenditure, rather than vice versa, it means that the nature of monetary and foreign policy determines the income and expenditure itself. It is certainly in all that part and the proposal for a new law on our benches that this national legislation is in line with the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, including the laws on national and central banks, is in line with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the provisions of the Statutes by the time we become full members of the European Union. And accordingly, in all that time, this draft proposal has been drawn up which fully complies with our legislation in relation to the current legal standards of the European Union, and in particular in the part relating to this degree of independence of the bank, which I was just talking about earlier. This certainly includes a ban on lending by the Croatian National Bank and, as I specifically pointed out, the objective of the Croatian National Bank in maintaining the stability of the prices that I consider to be one of the almost priority tasks in the conditions in which we are present. It is certainly clear that the proposed law fully ensures the smooth functioning of the CNB within the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank as part of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to this membership. And certainly by the arrival of that second important moment, which is the acceptance of the EUR as an official monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore, by this law and by this important assumption, the bill also makes this important assumption come true. As mentioned in the light of the good part of the current text, the text of the applicable law which was necessary to supplement and given the fact that a good part of this valid text had already had more extensive application is normal and it is appropriate to have a proposal for a new text of law in the context of today's proposal, so it stands here today on the assembly benches. Since I said at the outset that this is a law that is related to compliance with EU standards, it is clear that the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union which regulates this area and it is clear that I will be in this form and in support of everything here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11559	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11560	Final draft law on the Croatian National Bank. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 92. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments made by the Legislative Committee. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11561	Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11562	Amendment one becomes an integral part of the proposal. The second is Article 43.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11563	The government does not accept, as the proposed amendment would limit the right of the governor of the Croatian National Bank on the basis of the powers given by other laws to adopt sublaws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11564	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11565	Amendment withdrawn. Article 69 of the third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11566	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11567	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 75 of the fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11568	The Government shall not accept for the reasons that the provision of Article 75(1) does not exclusively apply to the law but also to the sublaws. The holder of sublegislative acts shall not necessarily be the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also other regulatory bodies in accordance with Article 105(4). Treaty establishing the European Community. Infringements to that provision may be reconsidered before the European Court of Justice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Statute of the European Court of Justice and of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11569	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11570	Amendment withdrawn by the committee. Article 81 fifth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11571	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11572	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 6th in Article 86.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11573	The government does not accept, because the words "if this is appropriate" stress that the powers of the Croatian National Bank for the adoption of sublaws are not unlimited. The Croatian National Bank of sub-legislative acts referred to in Article 86(3) may adopt only if it does not conflict with its duties in the collection of statistical data and as part of the European Central Bank, which is in accordance with the Statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11574	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11575	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment seven to Article 104.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11576	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11577	Eight on Article 114.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11578	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11579	Article 9(1), point (b) and (c) of Article 117(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11580	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11581	Thank you. Everything becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th to Article 119.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11582	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11583	It's also becoming an integral part. And this is over. I thank the ministers. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian National Bank. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law adopted by most votes, 84 for and one abstention along with the amendments accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11584	We move to item 4 of the agenda: - Final draft law on the financial inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 91 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. A 1992 foreign exchange inspectorate has been established by the Ministry of Finance's foreign exchange inspectorate which is hereby authorised for inspection tasks in the area of foreign exchange, foreign trade and credit operations and for decision-making in the first instance on infringements in the area. The 2003 foreign exchange law and subsequent amendments to the laws and implementing rules adopted in accordance with the signed 2001 Stabilisation and Association Agreement allow for a degree of liberalisation of all forms of capital flows, with the abolition of foreign exchange restrictions. At the same time, the foreign legislation implements the requirements of European guidelines in the area of prevention and control of money laundering. As a consequence of the above, there has been a rerouting of the activities of the foreign currency inspectorate, to detect and combat illegal cross-border payments. Pursuant to that proposal, the draft draft law on the financial inspectorate provides a legal basis for the functional reconstruction and institutional strengthening of the foreign exchange inspectorate and extends the supervisory powers to several financial laws, which is also the reason for the change of the name from the currency to the financial inspectorate. In preparing the text of the new law, the Proposer conducted a report by the Special Committee of the Council of Europe to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing in April 2008 as well as a report on the progress made by the European Commission for 2007. Both reports stress the need to strengthen the institutional capacity of monitoring and monitoring and the Manival report confirms that the Foreign Inspectorate has been profiled into one of the main supervisory authorities in the area of preventing money laundering in the Republic of Croatia. Following all of the above main solutions to the new Financial Inspectorate Act, it refers primarily to the expansion of the delirious and jurisdiction of the Financial Inspectorate, to the direct implementation of supervision under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism against all bonds, in accordance with the risk assessment and targeted requirements of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the State Attorney's Office. To monitor the provision of payment services in the country and the transfer of money as well as the cooperation and participation of the Financial Inspectorate in financial investigations. The new draft law also proposes to introduce a wider range of appropriate control measures, to determine effective and appropriate penalties for illegal treatment, and I would also like to say here, in the end, that by increasing the exchange inspectorate into the Financial Inspectorate, the scope of the task will increase because of the extended competence and the number of entities subject to supervision. The adoption of the new law will not cause an increase in budget expenditure for its implementation, as in December 2007, we were re-designed or changed internal structure in the Ministry of Finance set up in the Department of Financial Investigations and International Co-operation, and the 2008 budget provided for the reception of new employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11586	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. We move on, I open the debate, and first on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A 1992 foreign exchange inspectorate was established and was then authorised to carry out inspection tasks in the area of foreign exchange, foreign and credit operations and to decide in the first degree on infringements in the area. The 2003 foreign exchange law and subsequent amendments to the laws and implementing rules adopted pursuant to the 2001 Stabilisation and Association Agreement allow for a degree of liberalisation of all forms of capital flow, while removing foreign currency restrictions. At the same time, the foreign legislation implements the requirements of European guidelines in the area of prevention and control of money laundering. In accordance with these European guidelines, the activities of the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate are directed towards detecting and curbing illegal cross-border payments. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up a draft law on the Financial Inspectorate, which provides a legal framework for the effective reconstruction and institutional strengthening of the Foreign Inspectorate, which also extends the powers to monitor several financial laws, which is also the reason for the change of the name from foreign currency to the financial inspectorate. When drawing up the text of the Law on the Financial Inspectorate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia took into account the report of the Manivalo wall or the Special Committee of the Council of Europe to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing of April 2008. But also the European Commission's 2007 progress report. These two reports indicate the need to strengthen institutional capacity, supervision and monitoring, and the Manival report confirms that the Foreign Inspectorate has been profiled into one of the main supervisory authorities in the area of the prevention of money laundering in the Republic of Croatia. The action plan against money laundering and terrorist financing brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in January 2008 also highlights the need to strengthen the supervisory function, appoint concrete bodies for the control of the debtors, hire experts as well as the adoption of the Financial Inspectorate Act. The proposal for this law shows that the main solutions relate to the expansion of the scope and competence of the Financial Inspectorate and to the direct implementation of supervision under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism against All Bonds, all in accordance with the risk assessment and targeted requirements of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the State Attorney's Office. The extension of the scope and competence of the Financial Inspectorate also concerns the supervision of the provision of payment services in the country and the transfer of money. This bill also provides for the cooperation and participation of the Financial Inspectorate in financial investigations, the introduction of a wide range of appropriate control measures, and the determination of effective and dissuasive, or dissuasive penalties for unlawful treatment. The range of fines is really broad and elastic enough. The transmutation or re-forming of the foreign exchange inspectorate into the Financial Inspectorate will undoubtedly increase the scope of the task due to the extended competence and the number of entities subject to supervision. The foreign exchange inspectorate to be renamed the Financial Inspectorate by the adoption of this Financial Inspectorate Act was established as a special administrative organisation in the Ministry of Finance system and by the adoption of the Foreign Inspectorate Act in February 1992. Of course there are discrepancies in everything, but I believe that the most effective solution is that the Financial Inspectorate is in the Ministry of Finance system since it belongs to the nature of the business there. This law also provides for rational deadlines for possible violations under this law, and that for an age-old violation is a three-year-old, and the absolute deadline is six years old with deadlines running from the day of the infringement. It is important to point out that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the HDZ club supports the draft law on the Financial Inspectorate and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11588	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the financial inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia is closely related to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism that we have talked about here today, in this sense I will say a few words. Both laws today are in line with EU legislation and we are at the very top of the European countries, including members of the European Union, and it is certainly a major contribution to the continuation of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and to the even faster approximation of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. In line with the full liberalisation and deregulation of the European Union's foreign exchange regime, and the measures of the action plan on freedom of movement of capital, Croatia has taken the obligation to fully free current jobs and to gradually liberalise capital operations, with the full abolition of capital restrictions to be implemented until full membership is achieved in the European Union. The financial inspectorate established by the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, which we are talking about today, has grown on the basis of the Foreign Inspectorate and has extended competence and part-time work on which I will say a few words. In addition to the powers which he has so far had as control over the Foreign Affairs Act, the Financial Inspectorate hereby authorises the direct exercise of supervision under the already mentioned Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, as well as the supervision of the law that we see in the context of preparation, and in a unique manner will regulate the provision of payment services and money transfer. By giving this law extended competence to the Financial Inspectorate and in the sense of the supervisors of all debtors to implement the measures and actions prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism that we have discussed today, which is in line with this law. It also entrusted the Financial Inspectorate with supervision of all bonds on the basis of a request from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the State Attorney's Office. As the primary supervisor, the Financial Inspectorate also covers authorised exchangers of money transfer services, non-financial sector non-financial sector holders of an independent profession, which includes brokers in real estate trading, companies performing business and fiduciary jobs, lawyers, public notaries, financial advisers which I consider extremely important that all persons listed enter into the monitoring and monitoring system in order to remove suspicions from them that they are engaged in irregular business transactions, and, if such and exist during the surveillance, that they are also registered in accordance with the law and sanctioned, of course, all in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. It is certain that there is also a need to highlight the extended jurisdiction of the financial inspectorate, to which, with the powers of the foreign exchange inspectorate which it is taking over in the area of the supervision of the terms and means of carrying out payment-transport transactions with the abroad, it empowers both with this law and with the supervision and conduct of the infringement procedure under the law which will uniformly regulate payment and money transactions, both cross-borderly and in the country, whose adoption is planned at the end of 2008. I think it would be necessary to further highlight the link between these two laws that we have discussed and discussed today and the importance of the extended competences of the Financial Inspectorate. And in the end, I want the gentlemen of the Financial Inspectorate as little work as possible, or more work under surveillance as possible, and less work in the course of the application and sanctioning of any violations of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11590	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, from this debate it's obvious that these two laws that are being discussed today in this esteemed home, I mean a lot and we're exhausted, so actually about the law and the proposal for a law on the Financial Inspectorate, and there wasn't too much debate. What I would say, and perhaps what I did not say in the introductory section that the Financial Inspectorate Act is an integral part of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in January, which is an action plan to combat money laundering and terrorist financing for the purpose of implementing recommendations from the European Commission's Progress Report, which, among other things, committed itself to strengthening supervisory functions, to appoint concrete bodies to monitor taxpayers under the Law on the Prevention of Money Rights, but also to continue with the institutional strengthening of supervisory authorities through the recruitment of experts, information integration and cooperation between bodies of implementation and permanent internal and external education of employees. This Law on the Financial Inspectorate is, in fact, one of the constituent measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking, that is, taking. In this context, I would just repeat once again the position of the Government and the Ministry of Finance in this case that such measures are planning and predicting in advance, and I would draw attention once again that this law, or the proposal of this law, does not require any additional funding in the state budget for 2008, given that we have re-designed and changed the internal structure of the Ministry of Finance already at the end of last year and planned the funds for this year. In any case, the Financial Inspectorate and, in any case, I would like to thank the esteemed colleagues for their words and support, in any case, will continue to employ and educate experts in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11592	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions for voting on this wheel are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11593	We move on to the Final Bill on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 91. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure. The amendment tabled must be agreed by most MPs. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most of the vote by 110 for, 5 against and 7 abstentions. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to further explain this amendment. Mr. Secretary Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11594	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, this amendment only proposes that some of the provisions of the law can't come into force before the law itself comes into force. Since we have failed to pass this law by July 1st, we propose that Article 43(1) be amended and that instead of the word July 1, the words of July 1, 2008, be the day of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11595	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Or we should get involved and vote on the government amendment, of course. The result? I find that the majority of the 111 votes in favour and 4 abstentions have been accepted by this amendment. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee to Article 43. 1st Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11596	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11597	Accepted. So it becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11598	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11599	It's also becoming an integral part. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft law on the financial inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes are 122 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against this Final Proposal for a Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. No, the Financial Inspectorate Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11600	We move to the fifth item of the agenda, that is - The Annual Financial Reports of the HBOR for 2007 is proposed by HBOR. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development submitted this report in accordance with the provisions of Article 22(1). Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. The government delivered an opinion. You received the report at the session. HBOR's representative, they say he's here any minute, so we'll wait a minute. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. President of HBOR's Board, the esteemed Anton Kovacev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11601	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I'll try to be brief. First of all, to note that the 2007 annual reports were adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the same financial reports for last year were confirmed by an independent auditor. At the end of 2007, the balance sheet amount was around 17 billion kuna, which is 17% higher than the previous 2006 balance sheet. The capital amounted to around 5 billion and 800 million kuna, while the total credit activity of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2007 was around 6 billion kuna 500 million allocated to nearly a thousand projects, exactly 976 projects. What is particularly looking forward to and what we are particularly proud of, 53% of our total placements in 2007 were related to the promotion of exports, i.e. loans were granted to Croatian exporters. If we add guarantee activities and what we did as mandates to the credit activity of about 6.5 billion, the total business activity of HBOR in 2007 was 9 billion and 400 million. As far as the previous period is concerned, I will only provide information, so the overall activity in 15 years of HBOR's work has been since the draft of '92. By the end of 2007, it was about 62 billion kuna and we participated with our resources in 36 thousand projects. Total revenues during 2007 amounted to 854 million kuna, total expenditures of 654 million kuna. The profit at the end of 2007 was 241 million kuna and I must immediately explain that the vast majority and get to kill the intention of devalued capital. Our basic postulate in financial terms is to retain the real value of the capital the state has entrusted us with. So, except for that depravity that was in 2007, then the total profit we can say the net profit was about 60 million kuna. In 2007, we introduced two new programmes, which is loans to subordinated debt and development of tourism in the country. When we added these two new programmes at the end of 2007, we had 25 credit programmes to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, exports, large economies and municipal infrastructure. In March HBOR became the first shareholder of the EIF from Croatia, we bought five shares of the European Investment Fund. In early 2007, we introduced new categories of users and interest rates, so we expanded the number of users with more favourable interest rates of 2 and 4%, with medium-sized entrepreneurs remaining at the highest interest rate of 4%. So our highest interest rate of 6% no longer applies to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, normally to count both craftsmen and farmers. We were particularly active in 2007 as well as in previous years in credit programmes for farmers following operational programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture both in livestock and in warfare. We signed the Agreement on Cooperation with the Japanese Bank for International Co-operation and the French Bank to encourage international trade with the Arab world countries UBAF and with the business bank also from France, BMP Pariva. We now have 42 agreements with export banks, export credit agencies, and thus, in cooperation with these institutions that encourage exports in our countries, we seek to further encourage the export of Croatian products and services to the world. The 6th International Conference on the Encouragement of Exports in Dubrovnik was held but traditionally, where representatives were not only of Croatian exporters but also of prominent export agencies and export banks from Europe and the world. I'm going to take a very short look at the current period in 2008. A cooperation agreement with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has been signed and new credit programmes for monitoring the SAPARD and the PHARE programme have been introduced. A partnership agreement has been signed on a programme of entrepreneurial and business entrepreneurship education with the Faculty of Economics in Split, and new credit conditions have been introduced since 1 June. I have to say that given the high pressure and demand for HBOR funds both from business banks and from businessmen, we had to introduce some kind of restrictions. As far as small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are concerned, these restrictions are minor. We have introduced some major restrictions in the financial restructuring programme for large entrepreneurs. As far as the interest rate is concerned, regardless of what is here and our latest debt is above our average interest rate, we will try as long as possible and for as long as possible to stay within the range of interest rates of 2 to 6% but we do not know, here I have to question that it may not be a long period when we still have to correct, or increase some interest rates. Here, Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't last any longer, I'm at your disposal for all your questions and explanations. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11602	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of HBOR, Government, colleagues and colleagues. We are always pleased to discuss the Croatian Bank's reports for Reconstruction and Development, as their reports are quality, transparent and give good insight into what this institution is doing. That is why, whenever we discuss these reports, the SDP club has just highlighted the quality of the work of this institution and we have always accepted with satisfaction the reports that have been presented to us. So I will briefly, given that this report for 2007, when the HBOR was celebrating and a small jubilee, the 15-year anniversary of the draft, might remind me a little bit of how this bank was developing, we can say, the state bank, the investment bank, that is to say, in the end, a proposal that does not concern the HBOR, but concerning the Government and the Parliament. In the 15 years since the modest beginnings to this day, much progress has been made and a great step. In 92, when the then Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction was established as a special financial institution which, in times of war and war destruction, but also at the time of the modest banking potential actually needed, had a basic function or a task to lend projects to the economy primarily those that were destroyed in the war and projects that did not follow the business banks also had the task of giving guarantees. The law then found that the founding role of the bank would be a billion German marks and 10% of the founding role was then allocated from the budget. The president of the administration told us what potential and capital the Croatian Bank today has for reconstruction and development, and we really need to say that this is a significant progress. In 2006, a new law was passed in which the HBOR became a development and export bank, which should encourage the development of the Croatian economy and found that its core capital should amount to 7 billion kuna. It is paid out of the state budget because the state is a 100% owner of HBOR. At that time, we significantly expanded their activity, adequate to what it was actually doing. It is defined to finance the reconstruction and development of the Croatian economy, will finance projects from infrastructure, promotion of exports, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, fostering environmental protection, ensuring exports from non-market risks. You see how important these are, in fact, the projects and functions we've given to this state institution. In fact, Croatia still needs to invest infrastructure, although these projects in local units are being monitored by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then they are also more favourable credit funds. When we talk about the promotion of exports, then we can really say here that this is a huge aid to the export economy, that the problems in external trade are large, that few companies that can actually compete on the external trade market. That's exactly what I've had these days, and the report actually on the deterioration of relationships in the trade. After many years, we recorded the most dynamic annual growth, but not deficit cuts, but deficit increases in 4 months by as much as 21%. This says that other markets are closing for our producers and our products, while domestic market needs are such that we have an increasing or higher rate of imports than our export pace. Support to the small and medium-sized economy is really necessary, because they cannot, their projects if financed by the classical high-interest banking system, then it is difficult to repay the funds invested. This bank is increasingly playing a guarantee and export insurance against non-market risks, and you know how much that means for businessmen who have to perform in such markets where there are political or other risks and if we go to a commercial insurance company, that would be a very high level of insurance. So it's been said that in these 15 years over 60 billion kuna loans have been realised in over 36,000 projects. In the last year alone, the significant role of the HBOR was in lending to the creation of new jobs. There is one piece of information that has been released that through a project that was followed by the HBOR, three thousand and 700 new jobs have been opened in the past year. And when I said, here's to shorten my exposure, that we have one proposal, then we've been led by this data that out of the law established 7 billion kunas of HBOR's core capital so far, a little more than 50% or exactly 3 billion and 900 million kuna have been paid out of the budget so far, that we here are committed to, if not already at budget rebalances, but in the first budget of 2009, we increase the funds from the budget to increase the core capital of HBOR. As this would then mean a larger share capital, the bank would have, in particular, the increase in the financial market rating, the credit potential which it would have had greater and selective lending conditions. The president of the administration said that it will hardly be able to maintain such low interest rates of 2 and 4% at this time, since the global banking market is also growing, but higher core capital means higher credit potential, and greater allocations to support the economy through interest-subsidisation would also have an impact on lower interest rates which could be approved for projects that will be monitored by the HBOR credit lines. Once again, we from the SDP club will vote to accept the 2007 HBOR report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11604	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Director of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Analyzing some of the most important economic indicators of the Republic of Croatia and observing their tendency over the past ten years, many indicators have been encouraging, and these tensions have a positive sign. For example, gross domestic products in constant and proportionate growth increased by 19 billion and 274m euros in '98. The year at 37 billion 497m euros in 2007, i.e. in 10 years, was almost doubled. As a result, GDP per capita had even slightly higher growths from 4000 282 euros in 1998 to 8000 452 euros in 2007. At the same time, the unemployment rate in 2007 finally fell below 10%, and the review of the profit tax returns showed that the number of business entities showing profits at the annual level was increased. For example, in 2001 there were 50 thousand 899 applications with shown profits, and in 2007 after a steady annual increase of 30% higher, i.e. 66 thousand 406 applications from business organisations that were positive. As a confirmation of the continued increase in economic activity, it is also evidence that the total revenues and total expenditure of business organisations were doubled in 2001 to 2007. Of course, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has contributed significantly to the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia and these positive economic trends through the financing of the reconstruction and development of the Croatian economy, infrastructure financing, promotion of exports and support for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. In its 15-year activities, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development recognised and supported key projects that were the bearers of economic development, and today implements its activities through 23 credit programmes that it develops on its own. Indeed, HBOR’s data has been incredibly active for 15 years to support more than 36,000 projects with more than 60 billion kuna, while HBOR’s assets amounted to 335 million kuna in 1992, while in 2007, the financial year ended with the activity of Bank 17.4 billion kuna. During 2007. The HBOR approved a billion 826 million kuna to boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which is 35% higher than in 2006. At the same time, the number of loans was increased by 70%, and they were primarily focused on the food and drink sector, agriculture and fisheries, the production of metal, chemical products and publishing and printing activities. It is particularly important to stress that in 2007, the bank approved 3 billion 435 million and 200 thousand kuna loans, which is 67% higher than in 2006. During 2007. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has started implementing 3 new credit programmes intended for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs: the rural tourism lending programme, the microcredit programme and the debt lending programme. Regardless of the diversity of its programmes and equal presence in all parts of Croatia, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the implementation of its programmes does not compete with business banks, but through longer periods of funding and lower interest rates encourages primarily those segments of the economy which did not support business banks in quality and systematic terms such as projects in areas of special state care, islands and less developed counties, projects related to improving production for exports and improving entrepreneurship. In this way, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development encouraged through its programmes the foundation of entrepreneurship as a generator of future exports, modernisation and improvement of the technological level of existing products and provided the necessary trade capital through the preparation of exports. The annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2007 show that HABOR has been active in many fields. So in March last year, HABOR became Croatia's first shareholder in the European Investment Fund. In June, he signed a Co-operation Agreement with the Japanese Bank for International Co-operation, and in November of last year, HABOR became a member of the European Association of Public Banks. The financial indicators of business should point out that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2007 also operated extremely well and achieved a respectable profit of 240 million 915 thousand kuna, which is 33% higher than 180 million kuna 315 thousand profits in 2006. The interest revenue in 2007 was 868 million kuna and increased by 13% compared to 2006. It should be pointed out that the annual reports show that the growth in interest expenditure in 2007 was higher than the growth in interest revenue in 2007 which certainly points to the need for a more cautious approach to interest rate policy in 2008 to avoid further accelerated growth in interest expenditure compared to interest revenue growth. Despite this warning trend, net income from interest in 2007 was higher than net income from interest in 2006 and amounts to an extraordinary 445 million 362 thousand kuna. The net revenue from compensation in 2007 also tends to fall and has been achieved in the amount of €20 million, which is 2 million 236 thousand less than in 2006. The total balance sheet amount on 31.12.2007 was 17 billion 402 million kuna and increased by as much as 17% compared to the beginning of 2007. It can be concluded that HABOR’s annual financial reports for 2007 are indeed both quality and content and that business results are usually extremely good. Therefore, the HDZ Club will vote in favour of accepting HABOR's annual financial reports for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11606	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11607	Dear Mr Vice-President, representatives of HABOR, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the HBOR's 2007 financial report. The financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2007 approved by the Parliament were drawn up in a standard manner as provided for by international standards of financial reporting and audited by the first-class auditor. In a formal sense, these reports were made professionally. According to the profit and loss account, HABOR shows a solid growth in the total income of 12% in 2007 as well as profits after the taxation of 25%. The operating costs did not rise in line with the growth in income resulting in faster post-tax profit growth. In this regard, it can be concluded that in 2007, HABOR was more efficient in 2006. HABOR's main mission is to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises through credit approval under favourable conditions compared to the conditions offered by commercial banks. The interest rates at which HABOR granted loans to small and medium-sized enterprises ranged from 1 to 4% a year, significantly lower than market conditions. HABOR's credit activity was stronger in 2007 than in 2006. Credits granted to entrepreneurs through business banks increased by 24% in 2007 compared to 2006. Given the growth of credit activity, it can be concluded that HABOR met its mission and objectives in 2007. When we talk about lending, I have to re-emphasise on behalf of the HSS Club our recommendations regarding the selection of customers credited by HABOR because we do not think that we should lend to those who import Croatian agricultural products or some other products that there are enough in Croatia because in this way they create in some way we should say. In fact, our producers in Croatia are being kicked out of the competition. For example, in Croatia last year, two billion dollars of food was imported while agricultural producers, people who originally deal with agriculture in most cases had no one to sell their agricultural products. Therefore, we believe that such importers should not be supported by HABOR in the future. The most sources of HABOR assets are credit sources and sources based on the emission of own securities or bonds, which was possible thanks to a favourable HABOR credit rating. On the basis of the financial reports presented, having regard to the legal framework of action, it can be concluded that HABOR’s operations were more than successful in 2007. One of the most important issues of the challenge for management is the question of capacity development for the successful use of EU pre-accession funds, where the HABOR must play a very important role and I must stress that we, in the HABOR Club, have high expectations in that part. As I pointed out, the HSS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11608	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Goran Maras, Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I also welcome the president of the management of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, colleagues and colleagues. The reporting year for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was of great importance. In addition to achieving good business results, the bank marked 15 years and business. The HBOR focused its activities on the restoration and development of the Croatian economy, and on the regional orientation of funds, and in order to develop all parts of our country in a uniform manner, with an emphasis on promoting the development of the area of special state care and island. On this 15-year course of development and growth, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development recognised and supported key projects that were the holders of economic progress such as infrastructure building, export promotion, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, financing tourism, shipbuilding, lending of agricultural programmes, inventions and environmental protection. Today, it should be said that HBOR implements its activities through 23 credit programmes it develops independently using the best experience of European and global development banks with which it has long and close cooperation. During 15 years of work, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development supported over 36,000 projects amounting to more than 60 billion kuna. Here is just the information that the bank's assets amounted to 335 million kuna in 1992, and in 2007, it ended up with an asset of 17.4 billion kuna. In 2007, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development continued its activities from previous years, achieving what is really important, the objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is to encourage the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, agriculture and tourism, and as a development bank, it pays special attention to programmes for lending to beginners and innovators. During 2007, according to specific programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises 12 programmes, 760 million kunas were granted as an increase of 22% compared to 2006, while the number of loans granted was increased by 20%. If loans for small and medium-sized enterprises under all HBOR programmes were taken into account in 2007 a total of 23 credit programmes amounted to around 3 billion kunas of credit. With the goal of even stronger HBOR support, he introduced new categories of users in October 2007 and reduced interest rates, which is extremely important. With this change, the right to negotiate an interest rate of 4% was achieved by all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Users investing in mountain-mountan areas also exercise the right to negotiate an interest rate of 4% per year, or 2% per year if they also meet the criteria of market competitiveness. The new category of users is also entrepreneurs investing in fisheries, and they also exercise the right to negotiate an interest rate of 4% per year and 2% per year if they meet the criteria of competition. In promoting agricultural production, which is special to me and important to me, given that I come from Slavonia through the agricultural lending and uniform development programme in 2007 about 130 million kunas of credit were granted. HBOR has also been involved in the implementation of operational programmes of the Government of Croatia in the last three years, and has started to implement crediting for the development of long-term crops, cattle production, pigs, kitchen production, restoration and modernisation of the fishing fleet, vegetables and vegetables. In 2007, 209 ha of new plantations of orchards, vineyards and olive groves were planted. The construction and modernisation of over 50 cattle farms of 2480 standing places has been supported. With the implementation of the loan of rural tourism, the bank started with the aim of expanding the tourist offer in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, which of course contributes to improving the quality of life in the country. The tourist offer is introduced as an additional activity for agricultural economies, and the lending programme is implemented by the programme guidelines for the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Development Strategy for Tourism of the Republic of Croatia. The interest rate for credit users is fixed 8% per year, but it should be said that the ministry subsidises the interest rate of credit users from fixed 6% per year, so it is ultimately 2% per year, which is very favourable. Also during 2007, HBOR continued its activities to encourage investment in infrastructure projects, environmental protection projects, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, which were approved by around 487 million kuna. In order not to get the impression that the HBOR only credits small and medium-sized enterprises, HBOR seeks to directly influence the competitiveness of large shareholders, as well as the expansion of the scope of existing business activities. The funds are intended to finance the modernisation of production by introducing new technologies and products, and to build new production capacities. For these purposes, more than 1.8 billion kuna loans were granted in 2007, which are mostly targeted at the food and drink production sector 25%, agriculture and fisheries, 16%, production of metal products 9%, production of chemicals and chemical products 7%, and publishing and printing activities 5%. In 2007, the bank continued to provide strong support to Croatian exporters both through its credit programmes and by issuing bank guarantees. For export purposes, more than 3.4 billion kunas have been granted export guarantees worth 248 million kuna. Other activities in 2007 should particularly highlight further coordination of the business export-credit insurance of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the acquis of the European Union, as well as the organisational improvement of business in accordance with the practice of other export-credit agencies in the world. Specific financial indicators very professionally presented in the reports delivered show that the HBOR in 2007 did not only work successfully, but also the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development met expectations and carried out tasks and set goals. This is also confirmed by the independent audit report, which says that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has done business in accordance with the positive legal rules and international standards of financial reporting and international accounting standards. In view of this, I would suggest that we accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11610	Thank you. Honorable representative Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11611	Dear Vice President, Mr. President of the Board, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Annual Financial Report of the HBOR for 2007. The bank was founded on 12 June 1992 under the name of the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction. Today, he's doing business under the December 2006 law. In the past 15 years, the Bank has been constantly developing and strengthening its area of action and financial power. The district offices for Slavonia and Baranja, Dalmatia, Istria, Lika, Primorje and Gorski Kotar have been formed, all in order to ensure the quality, efficiency and accessibility of civil society services. Over 15 years of work, the bank has supported over 36,000 projects amounting to over 60 billion kuna. The bank's assets amounted to 335 million kuna in 1992 and ended in 2007 with an asset of 17.4 billion kuna. In 2007. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development continued its activities from previous years, achieving the objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. During 2007, HBOR approved according to sectors, first small and medium enterprises on all programmes of cca 3 billion kuna loans. In 2007, 130 million kunas were granted through the agricultural lending and uniform development programme. HBOR has been involved in the implementation of operational programmes of the Government for the past 3 years and has started lending to the development of long-term livestock production plantation, pigmeat, kitchen production, renovation and modernisation of the fishing fleet, vegetables and vegetables. For these purposes, more than 650 million kunas of credit have been granted. In 2007, HBOR started 3 new credit programmes intended for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which are a programme of loaning rural tourism, a micro-credit programme and a debt lending programme. During 2007, investment activities in infrastructure projects, environmental protection projects, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources approved by around 487 million kuna continue. The HBOR also seeks to influence its credit lines on the significance of the competitiveness of large economic operators and the expansion of the scope of existing business activities. Funding of 1.8 billion kuna is intended to finance modernisation of production by introducing new technologies and production and building new production capacities. In the area of promotion of exports, HBOR has developed an effective financial support system competitive with other Western European countries. In the process of creating Croatian export product HBOR participates in all segments from production preparation to the realization of export collection. In the period from 1.1 to 31.12.2007 HBOR made total revenues of €894.6 million and expenditure of €653.7 million resulting from a positive financial result of €240.9 million. Finally, I congratulate the administration on everything it does, on the development and assistance of the Croatian economy, it was big or small and I give full support to the report, but also to new guidelines and objectives for 2008, which is strengthening Croatian export opportunities, promoting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship through the introduction of new services, implementing a policy of even regional development and implementing projects related to environmental protection and energy. I'd be happy to support a report like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11612	Thank you. Dear representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11613	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the HBOR Board, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was founded in 1992. The main function of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is to promote a balanced economic and social development in accordance with the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia through its business and activities. Its main policies and actions are aimed, above all, at financing the reconstruction and development of the Croatian economy, infrastructure financing, promotion of exports, support for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, etc. From the draft itself until today, the main objective of the operation of HBOR is to restore and develop the Croatian economy according to the uniform development of all parts of Croatia, especially the development of areas of special state concern and island. During the years, HBOR supported all projects and programmes that directly affected the growth and development of the economy from financing tourism to building infrastructure and other projects. It is important to stress that this bank is working closely with other banks, global development banks and Europe whose experience has been implemented in the 23 credit programmes it is currently implementing. The past year, or 2007 was very important for the HBOR because of the very good results that this bank has achieved. So the bank's assets in 2007 amounted to $17.4 billion, unlike '92. the year she was 335 million kuna. HBOR recognised the importance of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in promoting growth and economic development in Croatia. It is precisely in entrepreneurship that new values are being created, new jobs are being created, employment is increasing, investment is increasing, gross domestic product is increasing briefly. Entrepreneurship, according to this, is the main driver of sustainable economic development in a country. This is why one of the very important and priority objectives of HBOR is to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises where particular attention is paid to lending to beginners and innovators. In 2007, a total of 760 million kunas were approved through 12 programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, representing an increase of as much as 22% compared to 2006. Also, the number of loans granted is 20% higher, with a total of 23 credit programmes of 3 billion kuna. It is also important to stress that HBOR introduced new categories of users in 2007 and reduced interest rates to 4% for all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in order to further stimulate their development. Users investing in mountain-mountan areas also exercise this right at an interest rate of 4%, or 2% a year if they meet market competitiveness criteria, and the same applies to the new category of users represented by those entrepreneurs investing in fisheries. In 2007, the HBOR also launched three new credit programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are a programme for lending rural tourism, a micro-credit programme introduced for self-employment of entrepreneurs, the establishment of crafts and companies, the modernisation and expansion of existing business, and the increase of new jobs, and a loan programme where the investor, the business bank and HBOR themselves are involved in financing, with HBOR stocking on real estate assets held in favour of the business bank. As I personally come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the city of Rijeka, I must stress that in 2007, the credit rating to entrepreneurs in the Primorje-Gorski County amounted to 700 million kuna of which even 20% of the waste on entrepreneurs from the city of Rijeka. Compared to 2006, this credit rating in the Primorje-Gorski County increased by as much as 157%. Encouraging and supporting the competitiveness of entrepreneurs in Croatia, HBOR directly affects their performance on the domestic and foreign markets. In this area, therefore, in the area of promotion of exports, HBOR has developed a very effective financial support system which is competitive for other Western European countries as well. On the basis of all of this, it is evident that the HBOR is actively involved in the development of the economy, in the development of a positive business climate that will trigger new business initiatives, attract more and more quality investors in the Republic of Croatia, which will enable further job creation and further reduce unemployment. For all these reasons, which I have stated in my presentation, I am giving full support to the Annual HBOR Financial Report for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11614	Thank you. And the honourable representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11615	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President of the Management Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with an associate. In my debate, I would like to highlight the importance and importance of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development not only in 2007, but in continuity in 15 years of existence and work. I would like to congratulate you on all the activities that you have achieved especially in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises since the time of HKBO until today. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was and remained a Croatian bank focused on funding through dozens of different programmes for the restoration and development of infrastructure, agriculture, tourism, all forms of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship with the aim of the even development of the whole of Croatia, and today I believe that this principle will also be the most important and valuable in your programmes. As head of the local self-government unit, I also wish to convey to you the satisfaction of the entire series of mayors, mayors, municipalities and cities with which I contact and HBOR. I want to give you the satisfaction of a whole series of support institutions for entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship centres that successfully implement entrepreneurship programs together with your field workers throughout Croatia. Special satisfaction is expressed by your clients credit users, favourable interest rates and satisfactory grace periods prior to the start of payment of the loan. The HBOR’s particularly important activities were and were still in the war - affected areas in Croatia, today the areas of special state care from which I came, and where the terms of the loan were even more favourable and adapted to the owners who, after the war destruction, started with the entrepreneurial activities of zero and received the support of Croatia’s credit banks for the restoration and development of HBOR. Finally, I also fully support today's policy and the direction of the HBOR more favourable lending of producers and exporters, as well as the credit limit in lending, for example. clean catering activities, apartment building, etc. a larger funds provided for production activities with an emphasis on exports. And once again with a 15th birthday card, I want HBOR to continue this quality of work and relations with Croatian businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11616	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. I also thank the president of the HBOR administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11617	HBOR's 2007 Annual Financial Report. HBOR Proposers. The debate is closed. I shall put the next decision to the vote, in accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body. The HBOR Annual Financial Report for 2007 is hereby confirmed. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted and concluded by 85 votes in favour. So unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11618	We're moving on to point six. - Final proposal of the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 88 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Dragutin Lesar. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Employment Intermediation and Rights at the time of unemployment, the result is, among other things, the need to bring this law into line with the directives in negotiating chapters 2. – freedom of movement of workers as well as 19. – social policy and employment. At the same time, normative assumptions are created for the direct application of the European Union regulation into the area of access to the labour market as well as coordination of the social security system. With this Bill proposal, the Government proposes to regulate employment interventions in the country and abroad, a mandatory employment insurance system in the case of unemployment, to define the category of unemployed persons that we mean by active job-seeking, to regulate the single record of unemployed persons as well as other job-seekers, to define in more detail the jobs involved in the preparation for employment, to redefine the Institute of Monetary Refunds as well as the conditions for the exercise of the right to cash compensation, as the height and duration of the right now associated with previous pay and time spent in the work of implementing the principle of pro-war Temporis. The possibility of a one-time payment fee for employment, self-employment or volunteering under labour regulations is also foreseen. The conditions for suspending and suspending the right to cash compensation and the possibility of continuing to apply that right which has ceased due to accepted seasonal work, work for a certain period of time or work in part-time shall also be laid down. We also regulate the right to pension insurance and prescribe the conditions for obtaining and the amount of cash compensation during education and the right to one-time cash assistance and compensation for travel and moving costs. We also prescribe a procedure for the exercise of rights during unemployment. The most important amendments proposed in relation to the existing legislation relate to the opening of the labour market in such a way as to enable private agencies to intervene abroad with established responsibilities for the exercise of rights based on interventions such as control, liability for damages, working conditions, costs and regulation of the area of cooperation in order to deliver and publish data which will be regulated by a specific implementing regulation. Equality of access to rights for workers who work in full and part-time, changing or eradicating the current recalculation of part-time to a large extent, which requires different arrangements of the Institute of Compensation during unemployment. More specifically, an unemployed person is defined who is actively looking for work and is available for work, and the establishment of only one record of unemployed persons and other jobseekers. The amount of cash compensation at the time of unemployment is related to previous salaries, 70% for the first 90 days, 50% for the rest of the time, and 40% for persons who have paid up to employment or pension rights. This has been restructured by the legal institute of monetary compensation by accepting one legal purpose, which is social security in case of unemployment. More benefits are provided in the first year of unemployment, protecting an unemployed person from the same risk of poverty and allowing for a longer period of uplifting their employability through educational activities and active job-seeking. Respecting the circumstances in which the proposed restructuring of the cash compensation institute would lead to a reduction in the amount of money paid to unemployed persons who entered unemployment with the lowest wage and who had the right to cash compensation all the way to employment. For them, the proposal for a law also provides for the harmonisation of the resulting cash compensation which is suspended for employment and continues after unemployment, in such a way that it is then determined according to a new basis, i.e. paid during the last employment. For example, cash compensation tested at a minimum gross salary of 70% for the first 3 months of 2008. So there's a thousand and five hundred and thirty-nine kuna. In 2009, it would be increased to a thousand 721 kuna, while the 2010 projection would amount to a thousand 924 kuna, meaning 70% of the minimum gross salary, depending on the formula of its increase. The determination of the duration of the payment fee on the basis of an average calendar month of 30 days, not as so far on the basis of the assumed working week of 6 days, does not constitute a significant reduction of the current rights because, even now, according to the applicable law, it is determined and paid in monthly amounts which do not depend on the number of days and working days of the month and at the monthly level, the fees paid are not changed. Respecting the circumstance that 38% of long-term unemployed persons have completed their primary school and that there is a need to further encourage the inclusion of the unemployed in educational activities, the financial assistance paid to an unemployed person during education has been raised from the current minimum amount of financial compensation to the level of the untaxable amount of scholarship. The proposed restructuring of monetary compensation and financial assistance during education on the basis of the movement in the labour market of the continued trend in employment growth and the reduction of unemployment, while respecting the average wage that unemployed persons made before the 2009 unemployment in the name of the material and legal protection of unemployed persons, which is an increase of about €920 million, which is an increase of € 120 million compared to this financial year. In this regard, I note that this increase does not require an increase in the employment rate, but only a redistribution within the existing funds collected during the financial year, and a 10% increase is planned for 2008. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11620	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't see anyone. Thank you. So no. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11621	Honorable Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed fellow MPs. The proposed law is a product of harmonisation of national legislation with the binding acquis of the European Union in the areas of negotiating chapters 2 of freedom of movement of workers and Chapter 19 of social policy and employment. The new law introduces a new approach by intervening employment and more than ever assumes that by intervening employment, it is a labour market relationship regulator, that it respects market requirements, as well as the care of job seekers. This is achieved by introducing opportunities for such and private agencies, making the labour market more strongly open to all entrepreneurial initiatives. Future employment interventions will be able to carry out legal and physical persons abroad. Such persons, with the conditions prescribed, will certainly help many individuals find jobs abroad, so our citizens will not have to continue to travel in the uncertainty offered to them by various intermediate foreign companies such as KBR, American or similar. Each unemployed person is approached as an only child, making it an obligation to draw up a jobless person’s employment plan in a significantly shorter period. The obligation of unemployed persons to accept the offered training and education, which respects the market for inevitable economic growth. New benefits are introduced for certain categories of workers. A circle of people who will be entitled to cash compensation is being extended. Introduces the right to compensation for volunteers. We know that volunteers are persons who have done a traineeship without the right to pay. The right to cash compensation for workers who have worked part-time is no longer recalculated compared to full-time working hours but shall be equated with persons who have been in full-time employment. This is the direct consequence of the alignment with the European Union's acquis. The amended cash compensation rights are firstly that the right to cash compensation has otherwise been modified by respecting labour market developments but also by the requirements imposed by the European Union. And the right to cash compensation is continued by those workers whose employment relationship has ceased without their guilt, i.e. on the basis of the cancellation of the labour contract by employers. These are the meanings of business and personal conditional cancellations of the labour contract. And in the event of an extraordinary dismissal by the workers only if the reason is the cancellation of the employer's behaviour and guilt. In the case where a worker cancels a working relationship and in the case of a contractual termination of a working contract, there is no right to a cash compensation. The fee is paid by an unemployed person and after volunteering. It's a new right compared to the current law. Compared to the current law, an unemployed person can regain the right to cash compensation if she has worked for more than 3 months from the termination of the right to cash compensation. More than double the cost of losing unemployment rights for people who make occasional profits at the time. Now this criterion is 1200 kuna per month and from 1.1 next year will be the lowest basis for payment of contributions. Now that base is 2 thousand 441 kuna. On the day of administration, it will be higher. So the unemployed will be able to earn something more from the occasional job without losing their right to cash compensation. The minimum condition for exercising the right to cash compensation remains fixed from at least 9 months of previous working relationship in the last 24 months. The duration of the right to cash compensation depends on the total working time of workers and is 90 days for workers from 9 months of employment to 450 days for workers with 25 years of internship. According to the current regulation, it amounts from 78 days to 312 days. But these days are now not involving Sundays, and so far the maximum length of the fee has been secured, but for workers with 10 years of employment. The new proposal is more restrictive for some groups, but it is more favourable for workers who have more than 20 or more than 25 years of internships. These are older workers and their ability to hire is more difficult than younger ones, so it is logical that protective measures are more favourable for them. The amount of cash compensation is now equal for the entire duration of the right, and according to the new proposal it is reduced during the period of exercise of the right. The higher amount of cash compensation is used as a higher right in the first year of use in order to protect a person from the danger of poverty and enable them to actively seek new employment. Long-term unemployment is dimming. The amount of cash compensation is still determined by the average salary that the worker made in the previous three months, but according to a new proposal for the first 90 days, the fee is 70% of that amount, later 50% and after 12 months 40%. Only around seems to be the cutting of the right in relation to the legislation currently in force. So far, we have had a provision that the worker has the right to pay an average salary but no more than the maximum monthly amount determined by the Minister of Labour. So now it's the highest amount of 1200 kuna a month and until a few months ago it was 1,000 kuna a month. In the future, the amount will be determined by the Administrative Council of the Institute. The right to a one-time cash receipt of between 1 and 6 maximum amounts of compensation shall be abolished i.e. From 1200 kuna to 7200 kuna on which workers now have the right to work with 20 and more years of employment where the employer cancels the employment relationship. This receipt, I'll remind you, was introduced in 2003 as a commission to reduce severance in the Labour Act. One-time cash receipt is actually severance... and severance is a right of employment which must be an employer's obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore an additional obligation for trade unions to contract with employers at social partners level through collective agreements. So far, women at the age of 30 and men of 35 have had the right to cash compensation until new employment. And according to the new deadline, it extends for women and shortens for men. Equality due to the principle of equal accession for women and men in accordance with the European Economic Community Directive. I remind you that women can still be entitled to early retirement five years earlier than men. at the age of 30 and age of 55, so the payment through the Employment Service is interesting only to women who do not have the right to early retirement due to their underage years. So this measure will not affect a large number of women because those who have the conditions for retirement are retired because pension regulations still make women more favourable than men. This is because of all these benefits, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11622	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Goran Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11623	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. We have a law before us that will not solve the problem of unemployment. Namely, it cannot be solved by the law of the problem of unemployment. It is only possible to make this one system, whole, coordinated, multidisciplinary policy because unemployment is not a political problem. Unemployment is actually a social phenomenon that is not just among economic indicators. So it's not just a lacmus paper that reads on the one hand the ability of the national economy, on the other hand the ability of the national education system to produce the necessary personnel. On the third hand, the source of information on the flexibility of the labour market, but this is the question above all that affects the existential sphere, but let us not forget the question directly affecting the persons concerned. Unemployment is a state of self-awareness, a sense of self-respect and security. Unemployment is a situation where the person considered to be less or more isolated or rejected from society, or less useful than those who work. That is why we cannot and should not view unemployment as purely statistical. If we spoke like that, we could be very pleased on the basis of the information published these days. In fact, the current unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia registered, so the registered rate fell below 14% with 31 May of this year's registered unemployment rate is 2768 persons, which is 5.1 less than in the last month, i.e. by as much as 11.6% at the annual level compared to so May last year. That's very good data. That's right. However, it is necessary to look at the structure of this data and see what it is. We must be aware that it is seasonal employment and that the highest number of employment is about 29% according to the Croatian Employment Service in the hotel and restaurant sector, so catering. We also need to know that there is a month before us in which graduates of secondary vocational schools, and then months in which students who graduate for the first time appear in the records of the Croatian Employment Institute. So, as long as our unemployment rate is above the average level of the one that is ruling in the European Union, and it is with the new arrival members around 7.1% we cannot be satisfied. However, it is very important to support all efforts by the government, especially the Croatian Employment Service, in order to reduce unemployment. Today I heard on the radio the information said by Mr. Ivan Chehok our colleague, otherwise the Mayor of Varazdin, that Varazdin, in May of this year, recorded the lowest unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. I am very pleased that the entire region of Varazdin County for the third year, and don't forget three years ago was one of the seven counties with the lowest income, with the highest unemployment rate, with the worst economic indicators now finally after three years of systematic policy both in Varazdin and in other cities and municipalities of the county shows such good results. I'm sorry that from tomorrow, this policy will no longer have the responsible people who led it, but I'm also sorry to say that Varazdin is not the city with the lowest unemployment rate. It's Big Gorica. We have 4.2% and we already have serious problems recruiting labour for the needs of local economy and administration. The town of Velika Gorica is therefore the city with the lowest unemployment rate, but this does not mean much as long as the Croatian data is relatively poor. Furthermore, unemployment has been a trend that the government has not responded to for several years. For several years, it has been measured that we will have more and more problems and what problems it will be to meet its needs for professional labour throughout the sector. I'll take only the examples we've heard here in the past three months from the mouth of the government itself. We've heard how much we're missing a doctor, so in the healthcare system. It's a hell of a lot. We'll get into a situation where we need to start importing doctors from neighbouring countries. Furthermore, we have a large deficit of staff in the education system, and that is, if you want from professional associates in primary, secondary schools, and also in kindergartens. This is where the explicits were mentioned psychologists, psychotherapists, social psychologists, logos, defectologists. We don't have enough. We don't respect standards according to the number of children. Furthermore, the Bologna process requires a completely different story in the organisation of teaching than the one that exists. We don't have enough expert staff capable of wearing cathedrals, wearing departments, replacing teachers who retire. And what do we have on the other side? Reduction of registration quotas. In the long run, this will be very clear for us, because on the one hand we are talking about a knowledge society and the need to increase the number of higher education students in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we are reducing the registration quotas, we are practically closing down the space of university development, and we are talking about opportunities where high schools work as places of professional studies of production of those staff who are most easily employed in the labour market that we don't even talk about. An analysis of the relations between the Ministry of Science and the universities would be a very, very interesting topic for this Parliament as well. Furthermore, hundreds and hundreds of architects and construction engineers are currently missing not only the economy, but also the public sector. See how many cities they are looking for in their departments for spatial editing of the personnel of that profile and they can't find them, and that stops economic development, because it's about the process of issuing local and construction permits. I will repeat and I will be very happy to be boring, and I will repeat every time that the Croatian People's Party promoted a programme of security that actually implies a whole policy a year ago. On the one hand, enabling lifelong learning, on the other hand, the responsibility of employers and on the third hand the flexibility of the labour market. I will not repeat the thesis of this programme, but whoever is leading the policy in this country on reducing unemployment can come and we will gladly give him all of our ideas because it is no exclusive, it is a European standard established by European directives 91/383, 91/533, I could list them to you 9. However, when it comes to a concrete bill, we must say that it is the interest of the Croatian economy to fully liberalise the employment media sector. Whatever it may be, there should be more employment intermediaries in order to bring the workforce as quickly as possible and to bring it closer to jobs, or to adapt the conditions on the labour market. This liberalisation can help to differentiate those who will invest more in this activity and facilitate retraining, lifelong learning programmes, adaptation of the unemployed to opportunities on the labour market. And the truth is, this law goes that way. However, what is the question of our goal? Is our goal to reduce unemployment recorded at the Croatian Employment Service or to employ as many people as possible? If the goal is to reduce unemployment on the lists of the Croatian Employment Service, then this law will achieve it. But he would have made it easier to say that we put in a provision to delete all those whose names start with a, oh, and in. Over the night, you'll get half the less registered unemployed. Is that the point? The point must be to increase the employability of all those who are unemployed regardless of whether they have formal conditions for registering in the Croatian Employment Office or not, but also all those who already work, but who work in poor conditions in poor employers, in those who rob the state, pay only the minimumer or just report them to the minimumer, and actually work and produce much greater value. It must be a policy that corresponds to the interests of everyone on the labour market. This law was unfortunately not supported by union centres. And you know very well because you all got all the 6 union centres that the explicits said that at the 117th session of the Economic and Social Council, they faced these solutions by warning from the session to the session that these proposed formulations of some concrete, of course not all can lead to a deterioration of the conditions in which the people looking for work are located. Explicates also say such measures will contribute to shortening the time during which an unemployed person is entitled to cash compensation. The minimum guaranteed amount of cash compensation will be abolished, most affected by unemployed people who received the lowest wage and who will exercise the right to cash compensation, e.g. meeting the first conditions for retirement. The unemployment records for administrative measures will be deleted long-term unemployed if they do not accept any job that corresponds to their psychophysical abilities, whatever that means, if the worker works on black, his fee stops. They then warn that in the event that a base cannot be established for the calculation of the cash compensation because, for example, the employer does not want to hand over the employee's salary account, instead of paying the unemployed person the average paid cash compensation and protecting him, he is actually being punished, and the employer is given that he continues to do what he wants. Furthermore, since the amount of the cash compensation will be calculated in relation to the billing salary, all those workers who pay are paid in black will be damaged because the state will calculate their cash compensation only on the officially declared salary as if they have determined it and as if they can change it. It's not good to pass laws regarding social rights, but to keep in line with all six union centres. Whatever we think about it, it is one of the important partners in the Economic and Social Council who is not satisfied with these solutions, is not satisfied with the Croatian People's Party club either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11624	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Angelko Mihalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11625	Thank you very much. When Mr. Assembly representative says that the Varazdin County and Varazdin City with the lowest employment rate, it is true, but it is not true that this is thanks to the current or current policies of the Croatian People's Party because they are least responsible for it, but are therefore very much responsible that the Varazdin County is now the most responsible county in Croatia. I hope that next week these documents will be accessible and I will be pleased to report here this Assembly on such an activity of the current policy in Varazdin County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11626	Thank you. And please don't throw it out of the bench. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11627	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm sorry I didn't answer the line right now because I didn't know that so many incorrect allegations this agent Beus was going to have, so it's hard to count everything now. But just one thing, look. You said the government is doing nothing about reducing employment in Croatia. So what do you think if in the last 8 years you have statistical indicators, it means not the indicators that someone invented, that employment has fallen with 358 thousand unemployed, and it's been spinning for about 300 grand for a long time today, which you yourself have said here about 236 grand. So the unemployment rate, not 15 whole things you said, is close to 16%, which was once somewhere around 10% and that employment increased precisely in those 8 years with then a million 341 thousand employees today over a million 517 thousand employees means it increased by 176 thousand employees more. So it's a notorious lie that you said, it would have been enough if you'd shown statistics. And when you've already turned around and mentioned the unions, then you should know that the unions were against abolishing a one-time cash amount, but I told you if you listened in the debate, it's from the basics of the work and it's being negotiated between the social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11628	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11629	Mr. Chairman, in Article 209(2), the explicits reads: "If a representative asks a word to correct an incorrect quote, the chairman will give him his word as soon as he finishes the speech of the one who made the quote. In his speech, the MP must be limited to correction, otherwise the president will take away his word." My colleague Kunst put in my mouth what I never said. So I never said the government did anything to reduce unemployment. I said the government didn't do anything to increase employment. So I would ask you nicely if already fellow Kunst doesn't understand, I'm sure you understand so as to prevent these... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11630	Thank you very much. In the assembly, then no one would correct the incorrect allegations at all, not even you. So we're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11631	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the draft law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment. As of next year, we will apply this European Employment Intervention Act and the Rights of the Unemployed. The unemployment benefits have been increasing since January 2009 and the first 90 days of unemployment will receive a 70 per cent rate of the average three-month salary that the worker made before entering the unemployment records. After 90 days of compensation falls to a 50% level until after 12 months on the stock market, the fee cannot be higher than 40% of the basis for its calculation. However, this does not mean that in practice someone will be able to receive compensation from, for example, 6 thousand kuna, because the law stipulates that the maximum amount of cash compensation for the first 90 days of use cannot be higher than 70, and for the remaining time 50 or 40% of the average salary paid in the economy in the previous year. Any unemployed future will be subject to a personal and professional employment plan within 60 days of its registration, and if he does not find a job in accordance with the plan, he will have to accept a job that is in line with his abilities within a year. Under the new law, the Croatian Employment Service loses a monopoly in the provision of employment for workers outside the country, and this job will also be able to be carried out by private agencies. Several recent years in the Croatian labour market have seen relatively major positive changes. There has been a significant increase in registered employment, while registered unemployment has decreased significantly. The total number of employees rose from a million 341 thousand in 2000 to a million 517 thousand in 2007, which is 176 thousand more employees, or 13.1%, respectively. At the same time, the number of unemployed from 358 thousand fell to 265,000, which is 93,000 or 26%. Labour polls show that there is a multi-annual positive trend in the labour market, the employment rate of the population aged 15 to 64 increased 51.4% in 2000 to almost 57% in 2007, and the unemployment rate decreased from 16 to less than 10% with a tendency to further decline. The good news is also that during May of this year we note the continuation of favourable movements on the domestic labour market. The reduction in unemployment at monthly level is the result of favourable seasonal developments in the economy leading to the creation of new jobs. At the same time, the long-term trend of reducing the number of unemployed persons at the annual level has continued. According to the latest data from the Croatian Employment Institute at the end of May, 232 thousand 768 unemployed were recorded, representing the lowest number of unemployed since mid-1995. Compared to the end of last May, the number of unemployed is lower by 30 thousand 589 unemployed or 11.6%. This continued the trend of reducing the unemployment rate at the annual level since August 2005. Also at the annual level for the tenth month in a row, we note a relative reduction in the number of unemployed persons with two-digit rates. However, the situation in the labour market is still not satisfactory and the employment rate in the Republic of Croatia is much lower than in the European Union at 65.41% and the unemployment rate is higher than in the European Union, there is 7.1%. The main concern is the relative scope of long-term unemployment. The unemployment rate of more than one year in the total number of registered unemployed at the end of 2007 was as much as 58.6%. Long-term unemployment is linked to a lower level of education and a higher age. This relative scope can be reduced by the educational measures of the active employment policy and the proposed possibility of significant material incentives, the participation of the unemployed in educational measures. It also proposed a significant increase in unemployment benefits in the first three months after the loss of work, as well as its gradual reduction in order to detimise long-term unemployment in particular in older people who have obtained the right to a permanent cash refund. According to current data 54.4% of employees of the employment fee belong to the age group up to 54 years, and after one year it is necessary to stimulate employment by a lower fee. The proposal for a law for that group of unemployed provides for the harmonisation of the resulting cash compensation after employment and re-employment in such a way that it is determined according to the pay achieved during the last employment. The proposed ones will be further encouraged by long-term unemployed persons, for example, to accept seasonal work or work for a certain time, which will affect the growth of the cash compensation paid at the end of the working relationship, and will also prevent new unemployed persons from making a significantly lower fee compared to the applicable law in accordance with the new institutions. To encourage the employment of citizens, the state will allocate around 468m kuna in 2008. According to the annual plan to encourage employment, budget subsidies to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of €26 million were included in that amount. Payment of the traineeship to health workers of 65 million kuna or incentives for the success of 77 million kuna prepared for employment in tourism and the expansion of tourism activity. Small and medium-sized employers will be able to recover 70% of the costs paid for the education of the employees of the deficit professions. More than 250 employment workers would be co-financed by 50% of educational costs for deficits. It is conditioned that the Employment Service conducts a selection of participants according to the employer's application. About 10 million kunas were allocated for this purpose in the budget. There will also be financed certain specialist trainings with 35% costs for small and medium-sized enterprises, and 25% costs for large companies. Unemployed persons for more than 12 months, and older than 25 years will have the opportunity to attend courses for catering, construction, shipbuilding, fire protection or local market jobs. The plan wants to include about 3,000 400 people. In addition to the free course, students would also receive financial assistance at the level of minimum aid for the unemployed, and the employment office would provide them with work-related accidents. About 30 million kunas have been allocated for the whole program. The education of craftsmen will be spent 7 and a half million kuna, for requalifications 1 and a half million, to encourage traditional craft activities of 1.2 million kuna, covering 250 people. The plan is to subsidise the employment of a thousand 80 young people without interest, and 750 women and men over 45 and 50, respectively. All of these are sufficient arguments to support the HSS Club's proposal for a Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during unemployment and also to commend the measures, i.e. an annual plan to encourage employment recently adopted by the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11632	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11633	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This bill of law, I would call it that one of the required packages of legislation which would obviously model the Scandinavian states, and especially Denmark and Croatia would like to start implementing the project program... security, variable, but certainly change through security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as we usually do, we come up with partial solutions and we think that this flexibility of the labour market and preambles to the status and rights of the unemployed solves the problem in itself. I want to believe that the promoters are aware that, with regard to this law and changes in the rights of the unemployed, it is also essential to monitor changes in education policy, labour migration in particular to territorial migration, which is directly linked to the possibility of resolving housing, or housing issues, or even to kindergartens, because it also affects labour migration. On the system of lifelong learning, especially the ability to acquire new skills that simply rapidly change the labour market from all unemployed demands and demands, and that will be more and more. So I'd say if this law was passed, and without any other follow-up changes, we'd have flashes, but not girly, we'd have flexibility, but not for sure, but also risky. Because by this law than those who are now in the institution or would not dare God we might appear will have less rights. I'd say they're losing. All those with a salary of less than 3 thousand kuna workers with more, and in particular, 10, and especially with more than 20 years of employment, all registered on minimum wage, all with a net salary lower than 2 thousand 960 kuna, and who gain or gain the right to receive a pension or real new employment, and those for which there will be no basis for calculating compensation, and those unfortunately are not few. So, for example. Comparing this proposal to existing workers with 2 000 441 kuna gross wages under the current regulation are entitled to a fee of 200 kuna, and according to this bill, in the first 90 days their fee would amount to a thousand 367 kuna as much as possible, but after that, when that fee falls to 50% or 40, 976 kuna. So all those who, at this point or tomorrow, go to the office and come and receive the right to compensation, and at the level of minimum wages, after 90 days their fee from the present would be less than 230 kuna, not more. Even though workers who receive an average salary of 5 thousand and something net, they would achieve 70 % of the salary of 3 thousand 513 in the first 90 days, after 90 days of 2 thousand 509. So what's the problem now? Well, the problem is most often the easiest and easiest jobless workers remain exactly low-paid workers, and that's where labour fluctuations are the biggest. So when we compare the level of rights in kunas, we must always see the structure of those who are already exercising the right to cash compensation, especially those who would do so in the future. As far as the text of the law is concerned, I will warn of a few things that I really think the Proposer will carefully consider my submitted amendments that are not much, only 24, and so I am helping government representatives to improve their text of the proposal. Article 10(1) provides that an unemployed person is not to be considered a person who, at the time of unemployment, is to be admitted. They're making A living example of a woman who was sent from the Bureau to the state service as an employee and worked on a census. The unemployed woman accepted working on the census a few years ago and made her entry. Two weeks in one month, two weeks in the second month. Not only did she lose her jobless status because at that time and time she got pregnant, but she also lost those rights as a pregnant woman, or parents, because she had no continuity. So why do you want to stimulate, destimulate first that the unemployed accept temporary and occasional short-term jobs a day, two, three, five because every kuna they make out of that title deletes them from the unemployment records and does not exercise the right to compensation because it disturbs them. So first, you detimize them to do short-term jobs and secondly you stimulate them to receive compensation in cash under the table on their hands because as soon as it's not registered, there won't be an obstacle. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Imagine if the worker works without confirmation of the contract or solution on the basis of which he works. So is what do you think workers really want to do, start working with employers if they don't have a contract or at least confirm they're employed? Who's to blame that the worker doesn't have confirmation, contract or solution? A worker or an employer? In the provisions of the sanctions for non-compliance with this law, there is no sanction for the employer even if the worker refuses to issue a certificate at the height of the salary which would serve the institution as the basis for calculating the right to compensation. So the legislator doesn't want to sanction an employer even when he refuses to give a certificate. And here's the worker who accepts to work and the employer doesn't give him a contract or a confirmation and the labour inspector finds him to work wipe him out of the records and loses his right to compensation. I would ask that the same rigorous principles that the law provides remain in the law. But not to the worker or the unemployed person, but to the employer, and that's where my amendments go. Furthermore, the right to re-application and acquisition of rights as unemployed persons is again tied to receipts. But not calendarly in the month that has been realized but in one magic formula that can happen that these rights, or the inability to re-activate and log-in, actually extend to several months. Article 43 provides for the maximum amount of compensation and determines that the average salary is taken but not in the Republic of Croatia but in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. In all other cases, even with minimum wage and all other fundamental rights, the average salary has been achieved in the country. However, when we came to those who exercise the rights of the institution here, the average economy is taken rather than the Republic of Croatia. Why? Why the average salary of this country when it is the basis of everything and for the salaries of civil servants and for us politicians would not be the basis for unemployment rights. And I end up with Article 39(3), paragraph 1, which prescribes that the right to compensation as an unemployed person will lose and that which I quote has not been satisfied in the trial or not satisfied during the traineeship. Imagine a young person or an older person who, as instructed by the Bureau, goes to take a job outside of his profession to avoid losing his rights. Make the most of the effort, time and energy to please the experimental work. It doesn't work. This employer wrote it down to her and such a person no longer has the right to compensation because she tried but failed assuming that the employer was honest. Assuming it's really true. So these are just 3, 4 amendments that I have succeeded in my debate to explain that they are not political or political but in the best of intentions and faith that this desire for a new regulation of the right of unemployment We don't make new injustices, new injustices to people waiting for the stock market. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11634	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11635	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, and somehow it seems to me that somewhere in proposing laws and reasoning of legal proposals that have come to us lately on benches is a little bit of honesty in what do these laws actually bring to those whom they directly refer to? In this case it is a law that directly concerns one category of Croatian citizens who, I think you will all agree when I say that they belong to the most endangered category in Croatia. These are persons who are now at the Employment Service, so unemployed persons for various reasons, various ages and various professions, or those who will be at the Employment Office tomorrow. I am convinced that no one is glad to be found at the Bureau, to be on some list not of a few dozen or several hundred but among thousands of those looking for a job and somewhere when you read this law, even if some of its provisions turn out to be that they went there because they don't actually want to work, so it's nice to be at the Employment Office, every month to check in, and in the meantime, to go to those same seduces, through ads to look for a job. I think it would be fairer to tell the citizens: look, we owe it or the citizens know it. We need to adapt our legislation to European legislation and in this adaptation, on the way to the European Union, roses do not bloom. And some of the things that we're editing necessarily carry with them the reduction of those rights they've had so far. Whether it's a right to a certain height, to some fee that's earned. Whether it's a right in time to get it or not. According to this bill, what it says in these articles reduces compensation for people who are at the Employment Office, the benefits are reduced precisely to those who are the most vulnerable because they receive the lowest salaries in Croatia. Because, as counterpart Lesar said, they belong to that part of the workers who are involved, as I would say, workers who are, in the fluctuation of workers, most often in employment offices and looking for new jobs. I'm not going to talk about numbers now, but it's obvious that so far there's a height, the lowest fee you could get through the Employment Office 1026 kuna, and now it's going to be about 780 kuna. Or we think there are managers at the Employment Service. Well, I guess we're all clear that no managers, board members of the board of directors are coming to the Employment Service or I don't know what it's called. A black worker. I don't think the worker is working on black because he likes it, but probably because what he's accomplishing through some basic job isn't enough for him to feed himself, his family, and then he's forced to look for work on black. Without a pardon, he'll be punished for three months by denying his fee, and I wonder how many employers were punished most because they were employed or for hiring black workers. Workers with 20 and over years of work experience no longer have the one-time additions that we had under current law. Workers with 20 or more years of internships or those categories that have 45 years of life and are more likely to fall into the most difficult employment categories, so I can only think about when and how a job will come about that will give them a decent life. Why am I saying all this? Because these last days too, not only at this session, but also at the last session, we bring and bring, and we'll probably still pass the laws that we regulate certain areas. Let's say the Minimum Salary Act or here yesterday we had a debate about the Income Act, or about increasing the non-taxable share of income we insist that they are essentially guessing, i.e. they don't mean anything to those or they mean a lot too little to those who have the smallest income in this country. Yesterday, we showed that those who have the lowest wage will feel the very least exactly that non-taxable part of the income, and I will link that up and say that and they probably spend the least electricity and electricity in this Croatia, and neither will they be freed or have a smaller percentage of the increase in electricity will ultimately mean anything to improve the quality of their life. So one single question is why in this country exactly those who are the most endangered actually turn out to have to bear the greatest, in fact, the most difficult burden because of them any reduction in their rights, and at the same time we do not have adequate measures to help them in some way reduce one right actually hit them harder and affect the quality of life. What I would also like to ask is a question, i.e. I would like to ask the answer, which is specifically related to Article 37, since certain trade unions have also asked the question, although it says in the explanation that the rights which were under Article 30 so far concerned women's rights, therefore with one child, and that, if they get, or the rights of women they have, have been fired and have a child by the age of one year, they are no longer within the framework of Article 37. So they no longer have the right to cash compensation and it says here that it was settled through some other laws. We will have the Law on maternity and parental support these days, but they are not resolved, these mothers are not resolved either through that law, so I ask whether this means that they will be settled through another law, and if not then I would ask that you agree at the level of the Government to which law we will return mothers to, or that the right to cash compensation is obtained by pregnant women, and a parent who at the time of termination of a working relationship has a child who has not completed a year of life, three or more underage children, and a child with severe developmental disturbances. Finally, several sentences related to this section relating to the active employment policy, i.e. Article 35, which discusses measures to encourage employment by the institution and which are then here, include, in particular, certain categories, i.e. different programmes. What I have been saying for years, and now I have to use it to say when this bill is at stake, which is what these programmes make someone feel like if someone is doing an analysis of employment according to these programmes and whether the effectiveness of the measures through which certain categories of citizens and citizens in this Croatia are being employed is being assessed. In fact, constantly from year to year are the weakest results in the employment of just older people over 45 years when women are also 50 years old when it comes to men, and when women are among the total number of unemployed women at the office 10% is in that category over 45 years old. Too old for employers, too young to retire. And at the end of the day, it seems to me that it is not good that we in certain employment programmes, that is, through certain measures I would say we are uniting different categories that I think deserve to be particularly classified, so when we talk about particularly sensitive groups of unemployed people who are threatened by social exclusion, we have placed both defenders and children of the deceased defenders and widows and women victims of violence and single parents and persons with disabilities. I think that much better results would be achieved if, at least for some of these groups, we had to take special measures, so that we were to follow their employment opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11636	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11637	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In this bill, first of all, in the assessment of the situation, it was as if it had been added to that fact that I think it's precisely why and not just why we have it in front of us and we're discussing this proposal for a law on mediation. In fact, let us remember the pressure of the World Bank in 2006 which pressured Croatia by saying that Croatia is overly detached from its gross social product for social benefits, so that Croatia is under pressure or probably not looking at and not being able to find other solutions, so it has committed that in that period since 2006.../The speech room will not be turned off, it is not heard. Does it make any more sense to argue? So, this irrefutable fact that we have committed ourselves to reducing the social benefits in Croatia to 3.5 in this year from 4.1%) of the gross social product. And let's just remember how much the social product fell. Only in the last few months. So what's the share and what's it going to mean in absolute terms, that's perfectly clear. But, as she has pointed out at that time, I ask you, Mr. President, to ensure peace if you are able in this assembly. The World Bank has rightly warned that in Croatia, which is located a year and a half ago, it established, together with the International Monetary Fund, the formerly hated institution, itself, that Croatia is on the poverty threshold. It is also said that Croatia needs to make this distribution of social benefits transparent, and then there would be more funds for those whose assistance is intended and who really need it. Why does Croatia not have a register of these persons? It's very, very interesting to know. We are all witnesses in our local communities that they are users of these social aids, various givings and even of this kind of person who deals with jobs that tax services cannot tax, so absolutely on the other side of the law, which are often in the register. So the fundamental question is that Croatia is finally setting up all registers, not just the Land Register. We are pressured by the European Community to arrange the Lander for our own interests, but this is something, such a register we must do for our own interests, or our own interests are not unique to us. These questions are closely related to the list of voters. We are witnessing that every year there are fewer and more voters. Many people who are only formally registered and who have a place of residence are also users of this kind of assistance. Croatia is obliged to assist Croats in the neighbouring country under the Constitution. It must be done in a transparent way, not through this kind of vision. This type of assistance is intended for Croatians in Croatia and all other citizens living in Croatia. Is that paying for something and some favors? So it is essential for Croatia to make a register because then these funds that are always small and insufficient would be significantly, significantly higher. Croatia should also do something to monitor these costs of life, the government itself to see exactly what the line of poverty is and to react exactly to it. Here, fellow Sobol said that those who abuse this law, and of course every right can be misused, but here these users who may be doing something by contract in a month or two will be punished and it will be unfair. And there is no doubt that the state will be very, very effective when it comes to punishing these. And it's interesting that the state is more powerless in sanctioning, let's say, employers, the most large ones with the larger mara and the grill are exhausted from sanctioning those who violate and abuse these rights. And people abuse it because they can't live off such a fee and who's gonna come, say, to the Bureau? This here well in the proposal itself, i.e. the assessment of the situation states that although some improvements have been done safely since 2000 here and with regard to the reduction of the number of unemployed, here on page 4, it is very sincere to acknowledge that this employment rate is far less in Croatia than in the European Union and what concerns is that long-term unemployment, and these are the ones with the lowest incomes that have been fired as excess work or who have simply left because they have not been paid their salaries. So, you will be and such will have the least fee. By the percentage of what they got, but that's not an average salary. Such a structure of people very little educated already in certain years when and otherwise very difficult to hire, and they can hardly be requalified, so such persons will be mistreated because they did not have an average salary but perhaps, here as textile workers far below 2 thousand kuna and there they will have 70% of the first few months, then 50%. So you should, and those with higher salaries, they won't be there for you or very rarely, and if they do, they'll be very brief until they're able to cope because, therefore, on their structure, on their education, maybe they're really just currently unemployed. And what is our crucial problem, but it is not a problem now and these representatives of the government who are there, but perhaps even the government's programme to finally start making, as well as to implement industrial policy so that people can start hiring because only increased social growth can guarantee that Croatia will be a full-scale social state as ordered and bound by our Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11638	Thank you very much. It's just 6: 00 a.m. and we don't have any more logs. In conclusion, Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11639	Thank you, Mr. President. Since it's recommended that I have a brief review, then I'll do it real quick. First, I would like to thank you for the debate and thank you for very constructive references to the law, and I would also like to answer specifically a few comments, as well as suggestions. During the entire debate, the key word of education was extended. In 38% of the unemployed, currently registered according to our employment agency 38% of the unemployed have only completed primary school. This existing situation, of course, can be cemented by a certain fee and broken hands, do absolutely nothing in the direction in which people should be stimulated to seek the motivation of additional education. This law does exactly that. This law will stimulate those 38% unemployed with a finished primary school to seek motivation in the education programme for which we give an untaxable amount of scholarship of 1.600,00 kuna. This, of course, moves to the class of higher fees after education. The point of the provision I'm talking about is the logic of an old saying, the difference between giving fish and teaching a man to fish. The untaxable part of the scholarship that a man who decides on education, for an additional qualification, for requalification is to teach a man to fish, not to drag him into a permanent fee in some amount and not to motivate him not to take a further step. I'm sorry that fellow respected representative Lesar isn't here, since he mentioned one category of women, and these are pregnant women, I believe that he has no personal experience regarding maternity leave compensation, I do, but I would say that in this part of the law that this part is governed by is the Health Insurance Act. I am also referring to the future Law on Parental Rights, and so I would like to answer questions, united on issues related to the status of pregnant women, following this, you have been late, the final draft of the law. Also in my reviews that have been given in writing, and these are amendments, with at least four amendments I allow myself to look a little bit at yours as you said, short amendments. At least four, I'd say we're stimulating the work on black, and somehow we're fighting the work on black. Also about the exam you were talking about, I think you're a little misreading that provision. In particular, it is a matter of tests which are a condition for carrying out that profession. If a person fails to meet the conditions, does not pass an exam such as a state expert's exam, a judicial exam, a state medical exam, the person will not be employed. So it's not about, it's about the wrong interpretation of the applicant's intensities as to not passing an expert examination. As far as hiring in the season is concerned, it's just the opposite. By returning to the compensation category, the compensation shall be valorised by the following salary amounts which the worker has made during the season and shall not enter into an estimate of the compensation to be paid for his return to the recipient category during unemployment. It is said very briefly at the beginning that unemployment is a social phenomenon. But the unemployed at this point have little use for us today defining unemployment as a social phenomenon. The unemployed who, according to the May 31st survey sample, have 10.2% of what is the lowest in Croatia, benefit only from laws that will stimulate them on the one hand and other ways of finding a job and on the other hand ensure a projection of the security of the minimum wage increase. So from globalising the problem of unemployment higher and more concrete proposals proposed by the government here today, I would say that our unemployed benefit from the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11640	Thank you. We have one correction. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11641	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would correct Mrs. Secretary of State's claim, which concerns the issue of pregnant women, or mothers, because she says that their status has been resolved through the Health Insurance Act, that is, the Law on maternity and parental benefits that we are about to discuss. But this category that I specifically told you about and quoted from the current law, and what a proposal it is, that category of mothers, or pregnant woman, is not after being kicked out of this law, will not be solved through either one or through the Law on maternity and parental support because those categories are not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11642	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Now, I ask you to move on to the vote on the debated laws on which the debate was concluded. First, the Final Proposal of the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment and was an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 88. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Dragutin Lesar. Please showcase problems. Yes, Secretary of State Vera Babic. Here you go. First amendment to the Legislative Committee on Article 48
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11644	Sustained, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11645	It remains an integral part of the proposal. Article 79, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11646	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11647	It also becomes an integral part of the proposal. Representative of Dragutin Lesar in Article 10(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11648	It's unacceptable, Mr. President. It is not acceptable for the applicant to delete these provisions. Contrary to the amendment, the Government states that the proposed amendment would encourage work on black, in addition, the status of an unemployed person has been regulated and defined according to international labour standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11649	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11650	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary of State, I have given this amendment that refers to a person who is registered as unemployed at the office, and in the meantime achieves a certain reception, cannot be treated as either to delete from the record or to lose the status of an unemployed person, because otherwise we will sign that people who are in the office as unemployed do not accept temporary and occasional jobs, because it is cheaper and safer not to work and remain in the register. I say vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11651	Thank you. Who is for this amendment, which the Government does not accept, please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get a supportive majority. Article 17(1), point (2) and (3), Mr Dragutin Lesar, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11652	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same, since the fact that the proposed amendment is the same or similar to the previous amendment is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11653	Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11654	It is not the same fact, because this article and the attempt to amend that provision by my amendment refers to the law providing, as you have suggested, the demarcation of the institution's records as unemployed persons, even of the worker found working without contract or confirmation, as if the employer had not issued a contract or certificate of employment. So, here for breaking the Labour Act, we punish the worker, not the employer. I'm suing the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11655	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment, please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11656	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed 30km as a condition for accepting or refusing offered employment is not acceptable for the area of employment, given that in the area of large cities this distance exists even within the same city, and in addition, an issue would be opened, in which the right would be determined by an average time of work travel, specificities of regions, annual ages, seasonal derogations, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11657	Thank you. Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11658	The law stipulates mandatory acceptance of work up to 50 kilometers away. My amendment refers to the fact that it would be 30 kilometers. Perhaps you are right that in the City of Zagreb 30 kilometers is city traffic. Croatia is not Zagreb. Zagreb is a third of Croatia. Therefore, the law must be observed in a way that applies to all citizens of this country, no matter what territory they live in. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11659	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fourth amendment of the same law is Article 17(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11660	The amendment is not accepted. The age limit of the child has already been increased and there is horizontal alignment here with other proposals for normative solutions such as the Proposal for a Law on maternity and parental rights and already adopted demographic and population strategic documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11661	Thank you. Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11662	So, the provision that I'm disputed in... that these obligations are accepted, excluded mothers with children up to 8, and I propose up to 10 years of age because I really believe that these women, if we want to implement pre-natality policies in Croatia, should raise the border to 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talked about it in the law reading State Secretary Obradovic, she told me that unlike me, he had experience with pregnancy. I really don't have experience with pregnancy, for now, I don't, but with raising children and caring, that is, the position of mothers who have younger children I have, so I'm asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11663	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 to Article 17(4) of the same Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11664	The amendment is not accepted by Mr. President, namely the job offered, which would be a long-term unemployed person, we believe is sufficiently defined because the same must correspond to the psychophysical abilities of that person, who are determined for the purposes of making a professional plan by a professional team, composed of a number of experts, and we do not find the danger seen by the amendment promoter from the abuses described, given that even more than 38% of the long-term unemployed have only completed primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11665	Mr. Representative Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11666	The law says it matches her evaluations of psychophysical abilities. I really don't know what it's like to finish 8th grade with psychophysical abilities. It is a question of the category of employment and possession of certain skills for work that refers to professional training, work experience and not psychophysical skills if it is about the obligation to accept a job and it really is about a definition that will be misused in practice and therefore I propose that it be changed and I ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11667	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. All these others are Mr. Lesar's amendments not to repeat. Therefore, now on Amendment 6 to Article 19(1), points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11668	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is such as Amendments 1 and 4, therefore, it is about working on the black and age-limit of the child I have already explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11669	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11670	Your explanation is the same, but norm is not the same. So it's an article that defines the right of an unemployed person to re-apply to an institution after having once lost the status of an unemployed person. I have proposed an amendment whereby, as a reason for eradicating from the record or losing the unemployment status, there would be no receipts that would be up to the minimum basis for calculating the contribution. You don't accept that either. So any one who accepts to work a week and earns 600 kuna on that month will be limited by the moment of re-application to the Institute's records. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11671	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11672	The amendment is not accepted. The participation of social partners in the creation of employment policies, among other things, as well as other relevant policies of interest for the social partners, has already been properly governed by the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11673	Thank you. Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11674	This is the parent law for the management and adoption of employment policy documents and programmes. If the national programme, the employment action plan is not a subject to be proposed jointly, I do not know what it is. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11675	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11676	The amendment shall not be accepted where the test work, the traineeship and the professional examination passed, has been laid down by a special regulation as a condition for the continuation of work, that condition cannot yet be tied to the faulty behaviour of the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11677	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11678	Therefore, a person who is not satisfied during the traineeship, i.e. the traineeship, or who does not pass the expert exam, loses that right. This means that if he failed in one place, and he accepted the trial work to work both outside his profession and beyond his work experience in the desire to try and fail, we are sanctioning him now. We send such a message, do not accept the risk you will be safer. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11679	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 41(3), point (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11680	The amendment is not accepted, therefore, in the case of part-time work when the principle of... It is not possible to apply the average fee paid and neither is the basis to determine from the Labour Treaty because it often refers to other sources when it comes to determining wages such as rules, collective agreements and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11681	Thank you. Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11682	It is a provision that regulates the case where the institution cannot establish the basis and pay of the remuneration received by the worker before obtaining the status of the unemployed person and has no basis for establishing the basis for calculating the right to compensation. Who's to blame that the Bureau can't determine the basis. And I guess he's an employer because he didn't issue a certificate. And you'll see later that the law doesn't even sanction the employer's behavior. And what do you suggest? To be a minimum basis for calculating the contribution, no matter how much the worker received. And I suggest that the base be the average paid cash fee. From that same office. So it's about people who have been put in a more unfavourable position with guilty employers' behaviour, not their own, asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11683	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 10(1), point (b) and (c) of Article 41(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11684	It's not accepted, Mr. President, the explanation is similar to that of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11685	Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11686	And my argument is the same, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11687	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11688	The amendment is not accepted, we believe that the amount of cash compensation submitted is in line with the standards of the International Labour Organisation Convention and what can be called European social legislation, above all I am referring to the European Social Code. Thus, benefits here are both fiscally sustainable and socially acceptable in the spirit of minimum socially acceptable standards and cannot be stimulating to the duration of unemployment and long-term unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11689	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11690	And I refer to the European Union Directive that says.... /. when new regulations are passed in terms of the rights of the unemployed... we shouldn't or shouldn't be reducing the rights he has at the moment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And my amendment is, instead of 50%, we go to 60% of the fees because that way, the unemployed who have received a fee of 1200 and how many kunas would ensure that even the compensation would not be less by applying this law in the future. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11691	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 12 shall be made to Article 42(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11692	Amendments are not accepted, Mr. President. As with the previous amendment here, it should be pointed out that according to current data, more than 54% of cash compensation users belong to the age group up to 54 years of life, which is why the Government holds that it must be contained in the law-solving instrument that stimulates the labour activation of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11693	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11694	I also believe that accepting my amendment would stimulate the labour activation of unemployed persons but would increase the right to compensation by 10% compared to what the Government is proposing. And I think that would actually be even more stimulating if a new base with a higher percentage were to be the basis for calculating the rights if they came up with the status of an unemployed person. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11695	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment to Article 45
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11696	The amendment is not accepted. It is not acceptable to maintain, in the context of the proposed restructuring of compensation from the unemployment insurance system in the field of material legal protection of the unemployed to continue to retain the institute of a one-time allowance for the overall duration achieved. This institute is inappropriate and is not in line with the unemployment insurance system. It is important to know that we are entering a system, an open system of coordination in this area of employment but also a system of coordination in social security, which would mean that for citizens of Europsokg of economic space we should also recognise certain working careers, which we do not think is acceptable in the context of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11697	Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11698	Now I do not know that in Croatia there will be an awful lot of foreigners from the European Union who will have the status of unemployed persons in Croatia but I note that it is people who have twenty years of employment. Which, according to the number of users, benefits and rights are negligible in relation to the total number of unemployed and I believe they fall within the category of persons who are difficult, extremely hard to employ, and therefore I believe that the institute should be kept in Croatia's legislation. And that's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11699	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 14 to Article 43(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11700	The amendment is not accepted, Mr. President. The proposed solution in that provision is in line with the requirements of the acquis.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11701	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11702	In line with the European Union's legal claim to take average wages in the economy, not in the country if I understand you well, Madam Secretary of State. But how is it that only in this law as a basis for calculating the rights of citizens of this country we get paid in the economy and not in the state? The legal property of the European Union in other areas is then not valid but only here. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11703	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. in Article 43(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11704	The amendment is not accepted, Mr. President. It is also a consistent application of the "pro rato temporis" principle that in cases of part-time work it is not possible to determine cash compensation in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11705	Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11706	I'm afraid I didn't understand, but in fact, by amendment, I suggest that the law lays down the lowest basis in this law. So, by law, let's determine... the amount of compensation would not be below that. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11707	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11708	The amendment is not accepted, Mr. President. We believe that the proposed amendment would be the so-called so-called amendment. the employment trap or the detimisation of the work activation of unemployed persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11709	Thank you. Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11710	So for workers, for women over 25 years of age and 50 years of age, and men 25 years of internship or 55 years of age right to extend the cash fee to a total of 624 days. Are these categories covered by this law people who have a chance to hire or not? Judge yourself when voting on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11711	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17th Amendment to Article 46(1)?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11712	The amendment is not accepted, and the argument has already been made on several occasions where the amendment promoter is overcoming some of the problems related to working on the black contrary to the government. The government actually holds the opposite. If the amendment were to be accepted, assumptions would be made for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11713	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11714	My offer in the amendment is that the right does not come true in the month in which the user received the receipt. It is far more just for me if someone in June achieves a reception that is his restriction to receive compensation. Then it's June, and it's not supposed to be philosophy about this, to calculate the odds so they can do anything to actually pay the fees less. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11715	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 18 on Article 48(2)?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11716	The amendment is not accepted, Mr. President. Again, it is about kilometers that are relevant for accepting or refusing the offered job, and that has already been the case, and I consider unnecessary further arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11717	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11718	I am asking for a vote because it is really about the amendments that we have discussed before. That's as much as this 19th, so I'm asking for 18th and 19th votes without reporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11719	What's the matter? A vote is required. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 48(3), respectively, of Amendment 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11720	Amendments are not accepted. There have also been words related to the child’s age limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11721	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11722	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11723	Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20, Article 48(4)?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11724	The amendment is not accepted, Mr. President. I also find it unnecessary to give further reasons since this was the case with the amendment, which was offered to accept the appropriate job for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11725	Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11726	So again, it's about the definition, the estimated psychophysical abilities that I think are arbitrative and will be misused in the application of this law and I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11727	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Amendment to Article 66(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11728	It's not acceptable, Mr. President. In fact, solutions related to representation of representative associations already exist horizontally throughout a series of legal regulations, as is the case in this bill. Therefore, we believe that such a proposed solution would not be on the trail of already busy practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11729	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11730	The amendment is to delete the provision under which the Economic Social Council proposes candidates from union and employers' ranks, because I believe that such a provision enters into the independence and rights of associations and employers and trade unions to run independently for bodies that and the law foresees that they have their own representation and that, as well as in the act establishing the Economic Social Council, they have not received such powers and that is why I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11731	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11732	It's unacceptable. Penalties related to labour are governed by the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11733	Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11734	I have offered here an article that would sanction the behaviour of an employer who refuses to issue an invoiced salary certificate so that his former employee at the office could be calculated, a basis for calculating the right to compensation. So you don't accept that it's a violation of the employer's behaviour. I'm sorry, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11735	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 74 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11736	It's not acceptable, Mr. President. The proposed amendment would mean the retroactive application of the law, which is not acceptable because the rights already recognised are covered by the Institute of Lawfulness and Executiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11737	Thank you. Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11738	I do not agree that it would mean retroactive application of rights, because it is about persons who have the status of unemployed at the time of adoption of this law and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11739	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11740	It's not acceptable, Mr. President. Namely, the amendment that was proposed in connection with the one-time supplement institute has already not been accepted, so it would be pointless here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11741	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11742	I agree with your argument that this debate has already been consummated and I demand a vote for consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11743	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. I therefore put to the vote the Final Proposal for a Law on Employment Intervention and Rights at the time of unemployment. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes are 92 votes in favour and one abstention and 3 against the final draft of the law, together with the amendments adopted. We have choices and appointments. I'd like to ask Mrs. Committee President Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11745	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 15th session held on 19 June 2008, the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Awards for Science from the ranks of prominent scientific staff. First of all, for the members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Award for Science from the order of prominent scientific staff are named: professor of science Petar Selem, regular professor at the Faculty of Arts in Zagreb and president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Assembly, professor of science Ivan Pavić, regular professor at the Faculty of Economics and Rector of the University of Split, professor of Science Dragica Kozarić Kovačić, regular professor of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb and regular member of the Croatian Academy of Medical Sciences, Academy of Medicine, Academy of Medical Sciences, Academy of Milan Moš, president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, professor of the Croatian Academy of Science Nada Čikeš Mihelčić, professor of science at the Faculty of Faculty of Sciences Faculty of Science and Faculty of Sciences Faculty of Sciences of the Faculty of Sciences of the Faculty of Sciences of Science and Sciences of the Faculty of the University of Science of Zagreb, Faculty of Science of Zagreb, Faculty of Science of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Science, Faculty of Science and Faculty of Science, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Science of Science of Zagreb, Faculty of Science, Faculty of Zagreb, Faculty of Science, Faculty of Zagreb, Prof. Secondly, so far, the members of the Committee on the Sharing of State Awards for Science and Order of prominent scientific staff, science professor Petar Selemu, science doctor Ivan Pavić, science doctor Dragica Kozarić, academician Milan Mošeš, science doctor Nadi Čikeš Mihelčić, science doctor Krešimir Pavelić, science doctor professor Mario Kovač, science doctor Josip Baloban professor, science doctor Antun Tucak, science doctor Ljerki Šifer and science doctor Luka Sopti, during the course of the legal period of 30 April 2008, expired the term of office of members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prize for Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11746	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate, and I am voting on this proposal from the Committee. Please, let's get on with it. Here you go. Opened and closed. Please vote. The result? I find that most of the vote is 78 votes in favour of, 4 abstentions to the committee's proposal. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11747	At the 15th session held on 19 June 2008, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb. It is resolved on personal request by a member of the University of Zagreb University Council Doctor of Science Željko Horvatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11748	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 82 representative votes for. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we are going to finish this session, we are actually starting tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. on the clear agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 87th still in order. Thank you very much. I suggest we work tomorrow until 12 o'clock because of a lot of obligations that MPs have. Many MPs, especially minority representatives, are absent, some go to certain assignments on behalf of the Parliament, and some go to Vienna. Thank you very much. We're moving on to choice and appointments. I would like to ask the representative of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament yes. Here you go, Mrs. Nevenka Majdanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11750	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008, most votes set out a proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. First, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as members of the public, scientific and professional staff of Mato Arlović, Ivan Koprić, Zvonimir Lauc, Robert Podoljnjak, Branko Smerdel and Smiljko Sokol. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11751	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11752	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. What I'm trying to say is not about the proposal of the candidates of this committee. It's about the complete material. It's not the first time we've gotten these materials in which we, as agents, find in front of once and for all the same strange fact. That candidates who are proposed in different ways write their own resumes. That's the problem, and on the boards it's already become. When something is proposed, we only have two candidates here who have applied so-called. European résumé format, and some write compositions like on literary groups, the other one, like this, the third one. Well, that's what I think is one cabbage you can't manage and that wouldn't pass, that meets the basic criteria I don't know where, let alone in some parliament. Secondly, the candidates listed under the education firm, I studied, I enrolled in college, I enrolled in postgraduate studies, I didn't master. I'm writing a Ph.D. right now. And listen, it's like knowing a foreign language writing that I'm learning German right now and I don't know it. And I mean, what are you writing, man, that you don't know him? So, I don't care if someone enrolled in the university exactly states I've never finished it and put it in the section of education. I mean... In the future, we ask the candidates to make a decision that they have to write their résumés in the same way, not to respect a résumé that says he saw a man who's an academic, so I think he's a little academic, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To write what they've finished, what they are, who they are. Otherwise we come into an impossible situation, I don't want to talk about anyone individually, this is one general remark. I'm saying, once again in Parliament, I'd like it to change. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11753	Here you go. Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, I agree that we need to sort of set up that, to make some, I'm not going to say a pattern, but mostly one that needs to be satisfied. Okay. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. For the proposal... Member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, political system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11754	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11755	Arms up. Thank you. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I find that this proposal has been unanimously accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11756	At the 16th session held on 24 June 2008, the selection, appointment committee, administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament, identified the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives. First, in the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, he is appointed members of the public, scientific and professional staff of Davor Berencinović, Srečko Jelinić, Petar Klaric, Darko Markušić, Dragan Medvedović, Marinko Ucur. From the ranks of representatives of the multi-level union Krešimir Rožman, from the line of representatives of the Association of Employers Natasa Novaković, from the line of prominent lawyers from the practice of Dorotea Mujic. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11757	... to determine the number of MPs, and then, 101, we'll do fine. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Unanimity with 101 votes has accepted this proposal. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11758	At the 16th session held on 24 June, the selection and appointment committee of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, the Board of Defence of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as members of the public, scientific and professional staff dealing with defence system issues and protection of Predrag Matic, Milenko Pezer, Petar Stipetić, Branko Šerić, Igor Tabak and Antun Tus. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11759	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate, making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Thank you. 100 votes, unanimously, 100 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11760	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes were set out by the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament. First, in the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, they are appointed members of the group of representatives of the multi-level union Mario Svinger, from the order of representatives of the Association of Employers Zoran Bohaček, from the line of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Miljenko... , from the ranks of representatives of scientific and professional institutions Anto Bajo, Branimir Marković and Petar Sindičić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11761	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal, please? Yes, thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was accepted unanimously by 97 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11762	The Committee for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes set out a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Economy. First, members of the group of representatives of the multi-level union, Ivan Tomac, from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Association of Employers Đuro Popić, from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Jasna Borić, from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Mato Topic, from the ranks of representatives of scientific and professional institutions Marko Kolaković and Željko Turkalj. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11763	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. With 96 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11764	At the 16th session held on 24 June 2008, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. First, the Committee for Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly is appointed as members from the ranks of representatives of the Union of the higher level Dubravko Čorak, from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Association of Employers Emil Kuhtić, from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Jasna Borić, from the line of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of craft Dragutin Ranogajec, from the ranks of representatives of the scientific and professional institutions Gojko Bežovan and Franjo Tomić. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11765	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? It's unanimous with 97 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11766	At the 16th session held on 24 June 2008, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Human Rights and Rights Committee of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. First. In the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly, members are appointed: from the order of representatives of the Catholic Church Denis Bajs, from the ranks of representatives of the Association for the Protection of Human Rights Ivo Banac and Mirjana Galo, from the order of representatives of women and young people, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac and Cveta Senta. The second appointed members also take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11767	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 97 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11768	At the 16th session held on 24 June 2008, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee. First. The Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament names members of the public, scientific and professional staff Vlado Beljaj, Željko Horvatic, Vladimir Ljubanovic, Anita Kurtović-Mišić, Dragan Novosel and Miroslav Šeparović. Second. The appointed members shall take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11769	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I would like to say that, unanimously with 93 votes, the proposal has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11770	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes set out the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First. In the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, members are appointed: from the ranks of representatives of the union of several levels Stjepan Kolarić and Krešimir Sever, from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Association of Employers Jasna Kulušić, from the order of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Zdenka Peternel, from the line of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Franjo Cimerman, from the line of representatives of the Association of Civil Society Marica Mirić. And two. The appointed members shall take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11771	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that 94 votes unanimously accepted this proposal. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11772	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes set out the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Health and Social Care Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First. The members of the Health and Social Care Committee of the Croatian Assembly are appointed as members: from the Croatian Medical Chamber of Hrvoje Minigo, from the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters Dragica Šimunec, from the order of health experts Stjepan Bačić, Ana Stavinić Rukavina, Željko Rainer, from the social care expert Zorislav Boš. And two. The appointed members shall take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11773	I'm opening a debate. I'm finishing up the paperwork. I am voting on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal has been accepted unanimously by 93 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11774	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes set out the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia. First. The Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is appointed as members of the public scientific and professional staff Stefan Bartulica, Vice John Batarelo, Ivica Lučić and Ines Sabotić. And two. The appointed members shall take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11775	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I am unanimous with 94 votes accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11776	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes set out the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. First. The members are appointed to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly: from the order of public, scientific and professional employees Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain and Branko Siladjin. And two. The appointed members shall take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11777	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I would like to say that, unanimously with 93 votes, the proposal has been accepted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11778	At the 16th session held on 24 June 2008, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. First. The Committee for Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament shall be appointed as members: from the order of public, scientific and professional employees Zvonko Seletković, Toni Vidan and Neven Voca. And two. The appointed members shall take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11779	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's to suggest please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted by a majority of 93 votes for and one abstention. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11780	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes set out the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First. In the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament are appointed members: from the field of science Milan Moš, Ivan Pavić, from the area of education Hrvoja Sikirić and Vlatko Previsic, from the area of culture Nada Balen and Zorislav Lukić. And two. The appointed members shall take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11781	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. What? Here you go. Mr. Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11782	I also have one methodical application. No matter what the selection committee is, the appointments would be much better and more correct if the board consulted with the parent committees. If that were the case, it wouldn't have happened if we didn't have any representatives from the farthest and very complex area of education – it's vocational education. There were three suggestions. It wouldn't have happened if they were all from, like, six areas of science in one single area of science. And it wouldn't happen that of the three experts that, very valuable we have for the finances of education with, one was in the proposal we don't have anyone in this activity that's also very valuable to us. So I would ask that this proposal be taken into account in the future, and for these reasons, I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11783	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted by 78 votes in favour, 4 against and 14 abstentions. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11784	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes set out the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament. First, in the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament, it is appointed members of the public scientific and professional staff: Damir Kovačić, Đurđica Sumrak, Drago Šubarić. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11785	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Vrbat, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11786	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is almost embarrassing for me to interrupt this almost idyllic or almost idyllic vote by your board members, however, when it comes to this committee, I cannot notice that of the three proposed candidates of the 12 applications received, the only fisherman who has applied, who has delivered his CV is not a proposal from the Committee for Apology. In fact, I believe we all remember that almost painful debate over the suspension of part of ZERP when Minister Kalmeta here said that special care would lead to fishermen and the sector at all. So I really don't understand how it's possible that the only fisherman who came here isn't the proposal. He's here on a motion from the craftsman's chamber. So it's not inappropriate candidacy. And let's say we have a beekeeper's representative, and then I wonder if we're going to rename the Committee on Agriculture, Beekeeping and Rural Development, or maybe there's been some confusion. I don't know if I can put you to a vote or, or how? Here I am against it, and I think we should, namely, fishermen are not fond of any governments. They always complain, they always have problems, but I think the Croatian Parliament is where they should have their man and their representative and their voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11787	Thank you very much. We really need to take care of that, but here's the fishermen who got the secretary of state. Okay, well, that's a little overcompensated. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was accepted by 72 votes in favour, against 2 and abstention 22. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11788	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes were set out by the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as members of the public, scientific and professional staff: Vladimir Kovacevic, Josip Margaletić and Bozica Marković. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11789	I'm opening a debate. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 96 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11790	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 most of the votes were set out by the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, in the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, it is appointed members: from the media Jelena Berković and Ivan Ugrin. From the science Damir Boras and Nada Zgrabljić-Rotar. From the association Đoko Malenić and Dragutin Veselic. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11791	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the majority of votes 93 for and 3 abstentions have accepted this proposal. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11792	The election, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 24 June 2008 majority of the votes set out a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Gender Equality and the Croatian Parliament. First, in the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, it is appointed as members of non-governmental associations, scientific and professional institutions dealing with the promotion of gender equality and the protection of human rights: Katica Kristic, Radoslav Marić, Brankica Rimac. Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11793	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 96 votes, and 1 abstentions have been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11794	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 24 June unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, in the Committee on Local and Regional, the regional self-government of the Croatian Parliament are appointed as members: representative from Zagreb, Greta Augustinović Pavić, representative from Osijek Jadranka Mikolov, representative from Split Ivan Puret, representative from Rijeka Vojko Obersnel, representative from the units of regional self-government Zlatko Komadin and Josip Sarić, representative from the units of local self-government of the municipality from the continental part of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Zelic, from the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Gavranić, from the line of prominent lawyers Nives... Second, appointed members take office on 15 September 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11795	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Gristle.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11796	So I would just like to say here that according to the content... /The speaker understands./... how the board should look, representatives from the units of the regional self-government should be representatives of the county. We have a mayor here, we have a colleague, Josip Saric. His résumé says he is currently acting as a member of the Croatian lottery administration. I don't know what the Croatian lottery has to do with representing the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, and I think it would have been much better if it had been some head of county, so either mayor or deputy mayor or secretary of county, so someone really would have been able to represent this regional self-government committee, and only if it wasn't thought that Croatia's lottery would be decentralised in the future, so we in the local self-government will get some money from paid games and betting. It's okay, but on the board are representatives of large cities and representatives of units of regional and regional self-government, these are representatives of the county. I'm talking about it here, so since we have representatives of the municipality, we have two representatives of the municipality, we have a representative of the big cities, and it was logical that we have two representatives of the county. We do not have two representatives of regional and regional self-government and therefore I will be abstention in voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11797	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting in a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 92 votes in favour and 2 abstentions have accepted this proposal. The session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction will be held tomorrow, July 3, at 14 am in the Hall of Josip Jelačić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your patience, and the session will continue at 4:00. We have a point of choice and appointment. I'd like to ask Mrs. Representative, Committee President Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11799	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 17th session held on 3 July 2008, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. For the members of the Committee on Conflict of Interests, they are named: from the ranks of MPs Miljenko Doric, Anto Djapic, Silvano Hrelja, Ivo Josipovic, Krunoslav Markovanovic and Emil Tomljanović. From the ranks of prominent public employees: Vlaho Bogisić, Mate Kacan, Jadranka Kolarević, Zorislav Antun Petrović and Desa Mlikotin-Tomić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11800	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic reported. Here you go. I'm asking the lady to...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11801	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, when they were founded in 2003, passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest then had great expectations. A commission was established under that law. And this commission that has fulfilled its task and that it has both well and quality fulfilled its work of witness and that the report of this commission has been accepted here in this House. In this assembly of Parliaments. Why the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest? It was meant to be one powerful weapon in the fight against corruption, particularly political corruption, the most dangerous form of corruption or corruption in politics. That was one of his functions. Its second important task is to establish a conflict of interest among officials but also to remove suspicion if there is no conflict. And that function is fulfilled. This commission led by the opposition representative, the honorable man, Mr. Josip Leko, established a conflict of interest and found a conflict of interest both with SDP officials and with HNS officials. Of course, the officials of other parties. When the commission found that there was no conflict of interest with a ruling party official, I trusted the commission. By trusting this commission, the public trusted that commission. This committee justified the reason for its existence and confirmed the need for the existence of law and action under this law. After the last parliamentary elections, such as the witnesses of the parliamentary majority, HDZ and partners decided to amend the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in a way that the commission, itself, changes to the laws it has passed, the end of the term of office of all members of the commission. Of course, those in the ranks of MPs ended the end of their term of office. And another important newspaper was introduced into that law that the commission would no longer be run by an opposition representative but by someone who is independent. Someone who is not a member of any party will be able to be more objective. The motions for candidates are coming to the Board of Elections and Appoints. Three in the ranks of the parliamentary majority, undeniable. I won't comment on their names at all. The parliamentary majority proposed its three and we all voted unanimously for the three. Three of the ranks of the parliamentary minority, one of whom is a representative of one party that has a minor influence in the Parliament, because there is only one MP and which, because of our known circumstances, is not the best choice for a member of this committee. And they're elected, they're not outside members, they're members outside the law. Five of them. Of all parliamentary minority proposals in the committee's session, none has been accepted. None! These external members, one of whom will lead the commission, will be the chairman of the commission elected on the parliamentary majority's proposal. And such a proposal is now being offered for your vote. The ratio in the commission will therefore be this. Three members of the parliamentary majority by force of the law. Five members of the outside on the parliamentary majority proposal. All five on the parliamentary majority proposal. That's eight. One member of the HSP, only conditional opposition parties. And two of the opposition's ranks. The ratio is 9:2 in that commission. This commission is drawn up in such a way that the opposition's proposals are not respected at all. They're already on the board tossing and voting. They will be voted today by the will of the majority here, confirmed. This commission will unfortunately not be trusted. When investigating a potential conflict of interest among HDZ officials and partners. The interest is Croatia, it is a national interest to trust this commission. It is a national interest and because Europe is sending us messages, it warns us that we are not effective enough in the fight against corruption. And political corruption I said is one of the worst forms of corruption and the most dangerous. Is that the answer of this House to such a warning? If such an answer is necessary, such a commission should be voted by consensus. Consensus. To be unanimously elected to the Parliament, because the parliamentary minority by its definition needs to be controlled by the government. It's her job. Here is one of the main instruments to carry out this work, this duty, that expectation of the citizens was taken out of hand. We are concerned about what is happening in recent months, especially after the parliamentary elections. All false institutions that should be independent of some bodies are under the control of the ruling government. That's how they lose their function. Let's remember that quick choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. The same willful parliamentary majority, not even coalition partners. So the election of members of the National Council to fight corruption. This is the third important body, a preeminent body to be voted solely by the will of HDZ and partners. I'd like to be well-intentioned, trust HDZ coalition partners to take what we're saying seriously. I would like to warn that if they participate in this, they will not only be partners, they will be accomplices to the liquidation of a single body that needs to be controlled by the ruling team. This is an important national issue. This isn't whether we're going to vote this or that bill or this one or that amendment let go. This is a major national issue, so that it could be easily prevented. We'll have a body that won't be trusted. I ask you who will now, in this term, if such a commission is voted upon to determine how many precious copies Prime Minister Sanader has increased his unusually expensive collection and, as part of his strange passions of worship for the Ural art, I wonder at a time when citizens are getting poorer every day, this morning we talked about it, at a time when food prices, food prices go to heaven, when energy prices go to heaven citizens have the right to know how many ministers have increased their personal wealth. Will this commission answer the question of how much the personal wealth of the three ministers who were in the Administrative Council of the Privatisation Fund was increased at the time when this Privatisation Fund was selling bribes to businesses and this has been proven. We cannot expect such an answer from a committee like this. And I'm telling you, I repeat what I said at the beginning. The commission's task is not only to establish a conflict of interest, but to remove suspicion of conflict of interest, to remove suspicion of conflict of interest and to rule, especially when it comes to them. It would also be in the interest of the ruling would be believed to this committee to be drawn up by consensus, but it seems that the interest of the ruling is different, to put together a commission of its own accord and to send a message that we want to enter conflicts of interest and we want such a committee that will not control us. That's our wish. It's a very dangerous wish and a very unfortunate message. And that's why I think all of this should be stopped, whether or not to vote this commission, so repeat the procedure. In one wiser and one more honorable way. In one way where the opposition would be respected to the extent to which it should fulfil its function, the control of the authorities. If we don't, if you insist on it, you have a majority, so you can do it, so it's no doubt. Make sure you send one terrible message. You will send a message that you do not want to be controlled, you will send a message that you want to enter conflicts of interest, that it is your political will. The SDP won't help you with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11802	Thank you very much. First, correcting an incorrect quote, and I ask you to correct it, not debate it. Mr. Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11803	Mr. President, this is... It's hard to correct because there's a lot of things that Mr. Representative has said that are incorrect and false. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He said this commission can't be trusted. A lot because Mr. Stazic did not respond, much would not have been the case in Croatia if Mr. Stazic had wanted it from the moment it came out of the Parliament for the sake of Croatia's independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11804	Let's concentrate on the correction, not...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11805	... he expressed his doubts about one representative in the commission, and with that representative, I think in the city of Osijek in the coalition. And here he suspects him in the commission, and with him is the coalition in Osijek. So what's your relationship?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11806	Thank you very much. It's not a correction to explain the attitude, it's a correction. That's why I warned in advance. Please, three more have the corrections to concentrate on the correction, and no one can correct the opinions anyway. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11807	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of the public, I want to correct the allegations that my colleague Stazic said, and he said incorrectly that most have proposed five of these independent experts. They were not proposed at the competition by associations, various associations from Transparency Internationale and beyond. So they were not proposed in the nomination process by the majority. Most on the board have done what they have done most of all in all the committees so far, and that is that all of these candidates are chosen by the people who will be elected to the committee today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11808	Thank you. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I want to correct one of the incorrect allegations Mr. Stazic said on behalf of the SDP Club, which is that such a commission cannot be expected good results. On the contrary, Mr Stazic, it is contrary to your opinion that this commission will be new, which will be independent politics, independent political parties, and which certainly will lead cases more correctly than you have used in the past term, Mr Leko has always spoken on behalf of the SDP and attacked HDZ through that commission, and now he will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11810	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Please, let's limit ourselves to correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11811	Here, given that the truth comes out, here I quote the incorrect quote of my fellow Stazic, he says, I would like to be well-intentioned and trust the commission despite what he chooses, because he has been chosen by HDZ. First of all, that's not true. And Mr. Stazic can't possibly be well-intentioned because lately with his hate speech he's been doing everything instead of being well-intentioned. And secondly, the members of the committee... Now we're going to talk about the members of the committee. .../The speaker went off and then turned on....so a few more because we all raised our hands. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't forget. So it's not true that it is. And please don't insult the other members of the committee because they're honorable people.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11812	Thank you very much. Since there isn't, no one checked in, I'm closing the debate. And please let's get involved and vote on the committee's proposal, or the selection and appointment committee. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. Score. The proposal was accepted by a majority of 78 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 29 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this first part of today's session will be concluded, or temporarily. The session continues at 3:30, so, at 3:30. We are continuing the debate on the agenda point that we have begun to discuss earlier. The first in a single debate is the representative Mr. Boris Kunst, then Susana Bilić Vardić and so on. Thank you very much, and for all of us! Selection, appointments and resolutions. I'd like to ask Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11814	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 18th session held on 14 July 2008, the Election, Appointing Committee set out the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Water. First, the President of the National Water Council is called Ivan Jarnjak. Secondly, for members of the National Water Council, it is appointed from the ranks of MPs Nevenka Marinović, Dragan Kovacevic, Marijana Petir, Ratko Gajica, Josip Leko, Ivan Hanžek and Zlatko Koračević. From the ranks of prominent scientists and experts in the area of water management and related areas Božo Galić, Bozo Vuleta and Davor Romić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11815	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by the majority with 119 votes in favour and 1 abstention, nothing against. Please move on. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11816	At the 18th session held on 14 July 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Committee for the award of the State Prize of Technical Culture "Faust Vrancic". As a member of the Committee for the award of the State Prize of Technical Culture "Faust Vrančić" is appointed representative Ivanka Roksandić is a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-19-0.u11817	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by 109 votes for and 3 abstentions, nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have completed the meeting of the Croatian Parliament during that period marked from 15 January to 15 July. Thank you all. We had one in my opinion the successful work of the laws themselves that we agree on the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. The procedure entered 84 laws. About 80 of them were brought or brought in in the first reading. I wish to all of you a pleasant holiday, filled with new enthusiasm, to begin the fall session of the Parliament. I wish everyone a good vacation, a successful vacation, and I'll see you in the early autumn this year. Thank you all. We invite you to a glass outside the Councilroom for a little cocktail. Thank you, everyone. ... - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic signature, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 87 It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 87. [[Home is not saved.]] The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy. Here you go.
