ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6552	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me present to you the proposal for a road safety law in its first reading. Since the application of the applicable Road Safety Act, there have been significant positive developments in road safety as seen in particular in the reduction of the number of people killed in traffic accidents in 2004. Thus, since 701 people were killed in 2003 and I note that this was the last year of law enforcement before that change in 2004 to 608 in 2004 and 597 in 2005. The number of people killed in traffic accidents in 2006 was increased to 614 and in 2007, unfortunately, 619 people were killed on Croatian roads. However, all of these indicators should also be monitored in conditions of constant traffic growth, increase in motor vehicles and driver numbers. In 2007 alone, compared to 2006, the number of motor vehicles increased by more than 80 to 100 thousand, depending on how we compare what month and dynamic change of registration of newly registered vehicles while the number of drivers was increased by about 45 thousand while at the same time almost 18 percent increase in traffic on our roads in the summer months during the tourist season, the flow of the tourist season and a major increase in transit traffic throughout the year. In addition to these data, it is important to point out the data on the number of fatalities when observed in relation to 100,000 vehicles and from 100,000 drivers, so in 2003 the number of people killed to 100,000 drivers was reduced to 31 people killed in 2007. Also in 2003, the number of 36 people killed to 100,000 drivers was reduced to 29 people killed in 2007 and these indicators no matter who had an opinion on it clearly confirm that the 2004 law made significant positive moves. Normally, the government of the Republic of Croatia and us as a resolute ministry should be absolutely interested in making this number of deaths, the fatalities and the number of seriously injured on Croatian roads, to be continued in a constant decline. These data should also be observed in relation to the increase in fatalities in certain European Union countries. For example, in Denmark, the number of deaths in 2007 increased by 30% compared to 2006, in Finland by 12%, Sweden by 6%, and in neighbouring Slovenia, the number of deaths increased by slightly less than 12%. After the statistics presented, I would point out the most important reasons why the new Road Safety Act was joined. The provisions of the applicable law are not applicable because of the discrepancies with the provisions of the new Infringement Act, which has come into force since the entry into force of the Road Safety Act on 1 January 2008. Infringement law amended the way in which protection measures are now laid down by the Court of Justice or by assessing the circumstances of each individual case while the applicable Road Safety Act provides for mandatory application of safeguard measures for certain offences. In accordance with the transitional and final provisions of the Infringement Act, such provision of the applicable Road Safety Act cannot apply until they comply with the provisions of the Infringement Act. Also, the legal nature of negative points, which are referred to as negative violations in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Law, have been changed and cease to be a safeguard and become a legal consequence of the conviction. Furthermore, in accordance with the provisions of the Infringement Act, it is possible to determine no more than three negative misdemeanor points while the provisions of the current Road Safety Act for certain offences provide for the pronunciation of up to five negative non-compliance points, therefore there is also a lack of compliance in that area. In the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Institute of Mandatory Violation has been established to impose only fines for a natural person of up to 2 thousand kuna. The court's proceedings under appeal shall be carried out in accordance with the rules on an emergency procedure and the court's decision shall be effective in the first instance. The proposal for a new Road Safety Act seeks to place as many offences as possible in the category of sanctions for which a mandatory infringement order is issued in order to achieve greater efficiency in sanctioning the offenders and the discharge of the High Criminal Court, in particular taking into account the fact that the High Court has so far decided as to be final in all infringements regardless of their severity. For the above reasons, the provisions of the Road Safety Act with the provisions of the Infringement Act need to be harmonised in a hasty manner. With this in mind, I point out that the proposed provisions of the law of 222 fines are prescribed for natural persons 177 or 80% are in the amount of up to 1,000 kuna and can be charged at the scene of the offence, i.e. 201 fines of 222 or 90% are in the amount of up to 2 thousand kunas which can be processed by a mandatory infringement order in an urgent procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Act. If we add to this the fact that the Penal Code has extended the limitation deadlines, therefore the limitation deadlines are no longer two but the deadline of four years, we are absolutely convinced that all of this in one correlation will lead to greater efficiency in the final sanctioning of persons who violate traffic regulations and who threaten primarily themselves and others on Croatian roads. Also an important reason for the adoption of a new Road Safety Act is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in this area with the legal regulations of the European Union, which is one of the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The draft law harmonizes the Croatian legislation with the European Union regulations in Chapter 14, 14 of the pre-accession negotiations, transport policy in the section relating to the periodic training of professional drivers, the exemption of the use of a safety belt for certain persons who cannot, for health reasons, use no safety belt, collection and delivery of data on the average carbon dioxide mission which releases new registered vehicles. As one of the papers of the bill is the definition of "young driver". The new law defines it as a driver aged 16 to 24, depending on the variety of categories. So it's about young people who are often under-thinking in traffic putting their lives and health at risk, first of all their own and then the health of other road users, who are very often underestimating and overestimating their own driving skills. Therefore, when determining that age limit, the psychophysical maturity of a person and determined by their age over the period of 16 to 24 shall be taken into account. The persons of that age group account for 11.5% of the total number of drivers and account for 20% of all traffic accidents, or 23% of traffic accidents with the most severe consequences. Furthermore, those age groups account for 30% of traffic accidents resulting in speed and 30% of the traffic accidents caused by drivers under the influence of alcohol. I would also point out the proposed provision of Article 199. A bill that may give the most attention to the Croatian public. Even the existing Road Traffic Safety Act knew the 0,0 promila law, which now provides for the right amount of alcohol for road traffic management. It is thus established that the driver of category A1, A2, A, B, B+E, F, G and M, if the organism has alcohol up to 0,5 promiles, i.e. the corresponding amount of milligrams in a litre of exhausted air and has not committed any other infringements, may manage the vehicle on roads. Furthermore, drivers professionals, for example, when driving a B-category vehicle, for example, drivers in state authorities, taxi drivers, ambulance drivers and all drivers whose vehicle management is a basic interest and during the course of their basic occupation, and driving instructors and young drivers are not allowed to operate a car on roads at all if they have alcohol in the body. Normal and drivers professionals of other categories. Vehicle management under the influence of alcohol is indirectly the most common cause of traffic accidents and especially those most difficult and appear almost always in the correlation with speed. It is noticeable to stabilise and ease the number of traffic accidents and casualties caused by drivers with 0.5 promil and less alcohol spills, and to continuously increase the total number of traffic, traffic vehicles, the total number of drivers participating in Croatian roads. Namely, the proportion of fatalities in the car accidents involving drivers who had alcohol up to 0.5 passed away in a mild decline in 2005 so that in 2005, 15 people were killed, while in 2007, 13 people were killed in such accidents. Normally, every life is worth it, but it's been found to be a slow calming state, a slight reduction in the number of traffic accidents caused by drivers with this degree of alcoholism. And the government, as a proposer of this law, believes that there have been conditions for something to be tempered in this area. However, it is important to note that the proportion of deaths in car accidents involving drivers who had alcohol from 0.5 to 1.5 went up, thus 62 people died in 2006, while 74 people died in 2007. For those reasons, sanctions for drivers with a concentration of alcohol of more than 0,5 prominence have been tightened and a criminal provision for drivers with a concentration of alcohol of up to 0,5 prominence has been lifted, and it will not be punished unless they commit a second offence under the proposed law, thus providing for a provision of Article 199 of the vehicle in a concentration of alcohol up to 0,5 perme... someone else from a violation recognised by this law, they do it in a separate violation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of the bill tighten the sanctions for the five most serious offences which are in a causal relationship in the largest number of cases with the most severe traffic accidents and for the same as the alternative prescribed prison sentence of up to 60 days. Five of the most serious offences for which the law has been prescribed as an alternative for up to 60 days are: speed higher by more than 50 km per hour than allowed in the settlement, refusal to undergo drug testing, drugs or alcohol, determined concentration of alcohol in the body above 1.5 promila, traffic management on roads before the acquisition of the right to drive and to drive during the prescribed protection measures. The provisions of Article 286 of the Law as a newspaper have introduced the possibility of revoking the driver's licence because of the negative non-compliance points collected. It is thus laid down that for the first time a ban on road traffic is imposed on certain deadlines, and if the driver is able to reassemble the prescribed number of points within 5 years of the expiry, 9 points, the validity of the driver’s licence will be invalidated, and then the driver’s test will not be able to reassess until after 2 years. The provisions of this law have also corrected some illogicalities in the now applicable law regarding young drivers. These provisions of this law, now in force, have been prohibited by young drivers for a period of 23 hours to 5 a.m. to drive a motor vehicle. This provision was declassified, and very often it was an excuse for young people not to be able to return home because then they automatically violate the regulation. The provisions of that law seek to encourage the level of professional training of candidates for drivers, especially young drivers, to improve the technical regularity of road transport vehicles, to include all relevant entities that can in any way contribute to the raising of road safety, the raising of culture and tolerance of road users, to meet the objectives set out in the National Road Safety Programme for 2006 to 2010. The introduction and education of transport participants from preschool age for safe inclusion and participation. Influence the environmental awareness of drivers and other road users as well as the need to comply with traffic regulations with the ultimate goal of raising the level of road safety in the Republic of Croatia. The existing law also maintained a high level of conditions for auto schooling because the Ministry of Interior proposed this law to the Government of Croatia considers that auto-schools are the starting point from which we all as drivers enter into traffic with habits. Regularly acquired habits with high quality education we are convinced will undoubtedly raise the level of road safety and reduce the number of unwanted events. Gentlemen Parliamentarians, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6553	We have one notice before further notice. Today we're not going to have a break, but we're going to be working until 13:30 and I'm asking you to let the clubs know, or the club's leadership to inform the MPs that in one and thirty hours, it's a vote and a key, of course, that we wouldn't forget each other somewhere. Thank you very much. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional. Oh, no? Then for the sea, traffic and connections Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6554	The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed and discussed the proposal for a road safety law as a home working body and in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The introduction was given by an exhibitor representative, who pointed out that the adoption of a new law harmonizes provisions with the provisions of the Infringement Act and that the provisions of this law seek to raise the level of professional training of candidates for drivers, improve the technical regularity of road transport vehicles, and raise the culture and tolerance of road users. The sanctions for the most serious violations have also been tightened, all with the aim of raising the level of road safety in the Republic of Croatia. In the discussion, the committee members pointed out that this bill went exclusively to increase penalties for violations that we are assessing will not contribute to the reduction of road casualties, and above all, from the statistics so far. Practice shows that the maximum and greater penalties are rarely consumed, with the resulting penalties being realised with only 30% of penalties imposed, and most penalties referring to improper parking. It has been stressed that this issue should be systematically approached, and that the proposer should have organised a number of professional, public debates in law-making, and we also assess that the proposals would be of greater satisfaction to a number of professions, as well as to a better quality. It also raises the question why the national programme does not achieve the planned road safety objectives in the Republic of Croatia, where one of the objectives has been identified as having or reaching up to 10 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants by 2010. It is also thought that the term “young driver” should not be tied to ages 16 to 24, but that the term “young driver” should also be extended to drivers who pass a driving test independently of their age. Thus, this applies to one who is 30 or 40 or even 50 years old if the exam is passed at that time. Furthermore, the opinion is expressed that during the day-to-day journey day-to-day light must be turned on as defined by the current law. There are also doubts about the provisions which determine the conditions to be met by auto-schools and authorised interrogators. It is particularly stressed in the debate that it is too ambitious to deal with such a complex problem with one law and that it is necessary to separate it into several segments, i.e. to regulate with several laws that would be in the jurisdiction of a larger number of ministries, and this would contribute to a more quality view of the whole of the problem through better quality solutions, by applying in practice, and thus also assess greater road safety. Representatives of civil associations have made observations that, in practice, there is no provision in the absence to determine, among other things, the exit of the investigating judge at the scene of the accident, the permanent withdrawal of the driver’s licence, the manner of notifying members of the families killed in traffic accidents, and it is estimated that for fatal accidents and severe disability, it may also be necessary to adopt a special regulation and the behaviour of all participants in order to avoid certain events. As regards the transport of children in motor vehicles, the applicant did not take sufficient care of the fact that in 2007 the number of children killed increased by 45% and it is necessary to comply with Directive 2003/20 of the European Union and that the provisions of Article 158(2) endanger both the life and the health of children, and it is necessary to find an appropriate solution to their safety and protection. This proposal takes too little care of the education that needs to be implemented from the earliest age with children's programmes in kindergartens and the introduction of a mandatory course in primary and secondary schools, in order to obtain a transport culture and raise responsible participants in transport. A representative of the Association of Croatian Carriers stressed the need to change the responsibility of road safety from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, noting that they also provided written remarks on the proposal for this law. After the debate was held, most of the votes were proposed by the board to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Road Safety Act in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6555	Thank you. Any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6556	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Certain provisions of the applicable Road Safety Act are not applicable due to non-compliance with the provisions of the new Criminal Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2008. The applicable Criminal Law, which entered into force in 2008, gives a maximum of three negative infringement points, while the applicable Road Safety Act is set up to a maximum of five negative points. The applicable Criminal Code also allows the payment of fines amounting to a thousand kuna for a natural person at the place of the offence and does not include anything in the criminal record, and the perpetrator is not considered to be punishable for the offence while provisions of the applicable Road Safety Act allow the collection of fines on the spot amounting to 500 kuna. Due to these newspapers in the Criminal Law and the harmonisation of the Road Safety Act with the same situation, a new state of effective sanctioning will be established on the infringement procedure and effective payment of fines. In this regard, I point out that the proposed provisions of the law of 222 fines prescribed for natural persons 177 or 80% in amounts up to 1000 kunas can be paid at the scene of the perpetrator of the offence. The important reason for the adoption of the new Road Safety Act is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in this area with the acquiss of the European Union. The proposal for a law is harmonised by Croatian legislation with the European Union's rules in Chapter XIV. pre-accession transport policy negotiations in the section relating to the periodic education of professional drivers, the exemption of the use of safety belts for certain persons for health reasons, the collection and delivery of data on the average emissions of carbon dioxide released by new registered vehicles. When we look at the number of deaths, the accident of 100,000 people in the Republic of Croatia since 2000 and 2007, we come to the data that 655 people died in traffic accidents in 2000, 2007. 619 people. If we look at the 100,000 inhabitants, we come to the conclusion that in 2000, 15, 2004 died. 13.80 and 2007. 14th on a hundred thousand vehicles. We're coming up with data that the death toll was 46.8 2000, 2004. 35.3 and 2007. 31.7 and 100 thousand drivers in 2000 in 36.4, 2004. 30.2 and 2007. 29. Over the past seven years, the number of drivers has increased by 330,000 and is now 2 million and 130, and the number of vehicles by 550,000 and now amounts to a million and 950,000. For comparison alone, in 1979, a thousand and 605 people died on our roads, and in 1990, a thousand and 360 people were killed. According to the above data, the adoption and application of the current law have resulted. In 2005, less than 600 traffic participants were killed in Croatia for the first time since 1965. When we look at the situation in the countries of the European Union, we also come up with one similar information about the increase in the number of road deaths. For comparison only, if we compare 2006 and 2007 Croatia has an increase index of 0.8, Czech Republic 17.4, Denmark 30%, Finland 12.7, Luxemburg even 33, and we have a neighbouring Slovenia of 11.8. I'm going to name some major paper on the new law's proposal. The bill defines the term "young driver" as a driver aged 16 to 24. So far, the definition of "young driver" has been tied up during a driving test regardless of the years of life. So the "young driver" defined a person within two years of the day of issuing the driver's license. The persons of that group account for 11.5% of the total number of drivers and account for 20% of all traffic accidents and 23% of traffic accidents with the most severe consequences. Furthermore, those age groups account for 30% of traffic accidents resulting in speed and 30% of the traffic accidents caused by drivers under the influence of alcohol. The proposed provision of Article 21 of the Law excludes a provision of a applicable law whereby young drivers are not allowed to operate a road transport vehicle between 23 and 5 a.m. That provision proved counterproductive because most young drivers were staying at disco clubs and cafes in the morning until 5:00 p.m. and then legally returned home. The safety-driving programme has been lifted from the obligation to attend the safety-driving programme for young drivers within two years of passing the driving test. And the most interesting, the alcohol. A ban on driving vehicles with a concentration of 0.5 grams per kilogram of alcohol has been lifted. It is thus established that drivers of category A1, A2, AB, B+C, F and G as well as M if the organism has a alcohol of 0.50 grams per kilograms of the corresponding amount of milligrams in litre of exhaled air and has not committed any other offence, it is permitted to operate a road transport vehicle. Furthermore, professional drivers examples of drivers in state administration bodies, local administration bodies, taxi drivers, ambulance drivers and all drivers whose driving is a basic profession, driving instructors as well as young drivers are not allowed to operate on roads at all if they have little alcohol in the body. Vehicle management under the influence of alcohol is indirectly the most common cause of traffic accidents, and especially those most difficult and occur almost always in the speed correlation. Stabilization and a slight reduction in the number of traffic accidents and injuries caused by drivers with 0.5 and less alcohol spills have been observed. At the same time, the proportion of fatalities in traffic accidents involving drivers who had alcohol from 0.5 to 1.5 grams per kilogram in 2007 increased by 19.3% in 2006. For that reason, sanctions for drivers with a concentration of alcohol of more than 0,5 grams per kilogram have been tightened, and a penalty provision for drivers with a concentration of 0.5% of alcohol per kilogram and the same will not be penalised unless they commit a violation of the proposed law. The right to use the accessibility sign for people with disabilities is certainly interesting and should be welcomed. It shall be given to persons with 80 or more per cent of physical impairment, i.e. persons with lower limb damages of 60 per cent or more, which may be marked by that sign by a vehicle to be transported, this is regulated in Article 40. This accepted the proposal by representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities and representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. In accordance with the applicable... Article 40 of that right belonged only to a person whose lower extremities were damaged by preventing normal movement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This, with such a restrictive provision, this approval has so far been used by 15 thousand people with disabilities. The proposed provision would benefit about 38 thousand people. The provision of Article 82 proposes to increase the fine from 500 to 700 kuna for drivers who park on the spot reserved for disabled persons. The proposal for a provision of Article 163 suggested that the safety belt should not be used by persons who are convinced that they cannot use it for health reasons. This provision is based on the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia on the Intergovernmental Conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union under Chapter XIV. - Traffic policy. The proposed provision of Article 222 provides. A driving licence for the management of vehicles C, C plus E, D and H categories shall be issued with a five-year period of validity. In addition to the mandatory medical examination so far, only the obligation for categories D and H. The driving licence for driving vehicles C1 plus E and B category has been granted to the driver who manages the basic profession of the driving instructor for a period of ten years with the mandatory medical examination. And this is a brand-new provision. Use of traffic lights. In accordance with Article 102(1), it is proposed that day-to-day or short-lights be turned on during the winter time-calculation period by motor vehicles during the day-to-day journey. In paragraph 2, it is proposed that motorcycles and mopeds must be turned on throughout the year during daytime. A large number of tourists come to the Republic of Croatia from European countries, Austria, Germany, France, Hungary and so on which there is no obligation to have short lights on during the ride. Also, the use of short lights during driving during the day will lead to less fuel consumption and is therefore more environmentally beneficial and cost-effective. God knows what, but I'm glad. The test, transferable and export tiles proposed by the Road Safety Act compared to the current ones are defined by the new three types of tiles. Test tiles up to three days other than plates issued for vehicles for a maximum period of 15 days shall be issued and the test plates shall be issued for a period of 3 days for the technical examination of vehicles having... controls, stops and which are prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In practice, there was a problem with how to bring an unregistered vehicle to the vehicle's technical inspection station, and the most smuggled. This provision of this law regulates it and gives responsibility to the driver to assess whether the vehicle has the correct braking devices, signalling and control mechanisms. Second. The transferable tiles shall be issued on a one-year period on behalf of a legal and natural person, a craftsman engaged in the production, upgrade, transport or sale of a vehicle, and may only be used on vehicles which have the right controls, stops and are duly marked. For the correct plates, a transport certificate and a traffic licence shall be issued within a period of one year. Export tiles shall be issued for motor vehicles and trailers exported abroad for a maximum period of 30 days and issued from the police department or police station according to the place where the vehicle has been purchased or taken over. The provisions of the draft law have tightened sanctions for the five most serious offences that have resulted in a causative relationship with the largest number of cases with the most severe traffic accidents, and for them is an alternative prescribed prison sentence of up to 60 days. Five of the most severe violations for which the alternative prescribed prison sentence is up to 60 days are: speed higher by more than 50 kilometers allowed in the settlement, refusal to undergo drug testing, drugs and alcohol, determination of concentration of alcohol in the body during traffic on roads above 1.50 grams per kilogram, traffic management on roads prior to acquisition of management rights. And under five, vehicle management during a protected management measure. The provisions of Article 286 of the Law as a newspaper have introduced the possibility of revoking the driver's licence because of the negative non-compliance points collected. It is thus laid down that for the first time a ban on road traffic is imposed on certain deadlines, and if the driver is reassessed within five years of the expiry of that measure, the prescribed number of points will therefore be 9, the validity of the driver’s licence will be invalidated and the driver’s test may not be reassessed until after two years. It's a conclusion. The provisions of the new law seek to raise the level of professional training of candidates for driver, so young drivers, and to improve the technical regularity of road transport vehicles by including all relevant operators who can in any way contribute to raising road safety, raising culture and tolerance of road users, meeting the objectives of the National Road Safety Programme 2006 to 2010, as well as the need to comply with traffic regulations with the ultimate objective of raising road safety levels in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community club welcomes the proposal that the law goes to second reading. He hopes that the proposer will accept all the good proposals from the MPs and will support the adoption of this law as such a club of the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6557	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since it is a really complex matter, I have prepared one on behalf of the club representatives written text, so I hope that we will pay attention to it, given that it is a very different point of view than the promoter is not quite but a good part, but as the promoter referred to his presentations. And on this occasion when I speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP in the beginning, I must already point out that I am glad that my proposal has been accepted that this law is not adopted by an urgent procedure, but rather by a very regular procedure. This allowed at least part of the debate to be held on the essential law institutions in this assembly and to consider more seriously useful suggestions and suggestions from MPs that I believe will be many and translated into legal norms ahead of the second reading. This will mean at least a minimum of decency to all those who have, almost four years since the adoption of the applicable Road Safety Act, analysed its application and made reasoned proposals to improve the law. It is about scientific institutions, professional associations, judicial, traffic, medical and other respected experts and well-intentioned citizens and numerous associations. Because this complex and socially important law, after nearly four years of its duration, was to pass a kind of public debate from the highest public of citizens and media to the organisation of round tables, diverse scientific and professional institutions and associations. From this and thus organised debates and collected arguments, the legislator should seek consensus of all political factors in Parliament. Only then would this law have made sense and would achieve the basic goal that it should achieve, significantly fewer victims and killed on the road and greater safety of all road users. And that is why here and in these circumstances relatively limited possibilities of discussing this complex, sensitive and significant matter makes sense to open the following issues, to warn of the key problems which have been addressed by the proposed Road Safety Act. First, I agree with the legislator, with his finding that in the last 18 years, the Republic of Croatia has made a significant step towards road safety because Croatia in 1990 had 30 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, because this is the basic criterion, the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in all countries and today there are half fewer. So 100 thousand people died between 14.5%. But that's not enough. Why? Because the trend of those killed and killed in 2006 and 2007, so 597 people died in 2005, 2006. 614, 2007. 619. The number of injured, badly injured and of course material damage is growing. The question arises as to what is happening and why the state of security on our roads declines, where of all modes of traffic there are the most accidents in both Europe and the world, and in Croatia. Individuals think there's the most accident in plane accidents. But, no, only they're more expressed in the media, so then there's one such false perception. This issue should be more asked, given that according to the National Road Traffic Safety Programme adopted by the Government for the period 2006 to 2010, an ambitious objective of 10 people killed per 100,000 population has been outlined, so I said we have 14.5. And given the fact that, except in some European Union countries, the number of accidents and the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants is constantly dropping in 2007. It is not good, I must point out, that the legislator compares our report for 2007 to the number of people killed with the countries of the European Union where, for the first time in years, there has been an increase in the number of deaths and this has been due to mild winter and some other things. But be assured that by next year, it will be quite different because they are ready and able to react quickly and to reassemble quickly. And as it's going to be with us, I hope it gets better. So the UK has about six deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, Sweden's five dead, the Netherlands 4.5 killed. I know it's not easy to answer this question about how to reduce the number of victims in traffic, but it has to be answered. I am afraid that when this law is passed this time it will not be done, but we must do everything possible to change people's minds, especially the institutions of responsibility and responsible state authorities, in the direction of increased responsibility for the state of security of all road users, mainly children and young people. I think the basic problem is in our weak organization. That's why the highest responsibility is borne by the state no matter who's in power. What the SDP advocate club proposes is to achieve a different approach to solving the problem. We think traffic on the roads is a complex part of our lives. Therefore, it is not enough for only one authority of the MUP to be in charge and responsible for preparing and implementing this complex law. We need to seriously think about the idea and this is our idea to divide the matter of this law into several segments so that future different resolutions worry about the preparation of the implementation of this legal structure. That would mean the Home Office would be in charge... on the segment on traffic security in a narrow sense, means the behaviour of road users and the punishment of the Ministry of Transport would fall within the jurisdiction of the care of the basic conditions which must be met by road and vehicles in terms of traffic safety while the segment of education and training of candidates for drivers and drivers and the laying down of driving tests would be within the competence of the Ministry of Education and Science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, what we lack should be conceived by one coordinating body that should be formed by the Government and which should have legal powers to worry about the coordinated action of all bodies and state bodies, scientific institutions, associations and others. The body would correspond to the government and the government would report once a year on the state of traffic on the roads of the Croatian Parliament. We had a traffic safety council four years ago. It wasn't the same until the end well-conceived because it wasn't with the government, it was somewhere in between. Now we don't have that anymore, and every organ works for itself and has no coordinate access. And that's why there's a lot of wandering. Therefore, I stressed that one of the main problems in formulating a policy towards transport security and implementation is that it does not have access to organise everything in a way that is consistent with the functioning of those bodies. And as for the very text of the bill found on the benches of parliamentary deputies, the question arises whether we have a new law ahead of us. Well, according to everything, yes, but not by content. The text of the bill would prefer to correspond to amendments and amendments to the law both in its scope and in its content. But what happened? The proposer mechanically imported the legal paper into a body of the applicable law, thus following the conceptal old regulation. That's why the program's new regulation and it can't really be talked about because the concept of this regulation is unchanged, resting almost exclusively on the model of punishment and repression. The best example of the conceptal insufficiency of the proposed text is the limitation of the provisions on driver education and the lack of clear provisions on the prevention system. Relations in the driver training and driving tests system do not satisfy anyone and the changes proposed are maintained at the cosmetic level. This is also done in a scheme and unthinkable way, not only does the autonomous position of public authority but it continues to strengthen the tendency of administrative and administrative control to the harm of the profession. All solutions in the sector depend directly on sublegal acts brought by the minister. At the same time, the actual process of driving education is passed on to a specific market and conflicts arise over the price of training for drivers rather than making a quality step and the law itself prescribes conditions for the opening of safe driving schools that would significantly reduce the number of accidents in Austria. It's about the sudden need to build what's called the so-called construction. the centres of safe driving, the most modern polygons that extend to the surface of 10 to 30 hectares and which cost, really cost a lot but are worth investing from 5 to 20 million euros and on which the candidate for driver and driver, after a certain driving experience, is actually being trained in snow, rainy and icy conditions. In Austria, the results are more than good. Now I refer to a colleague from the HDZ Club when he said that young people die on our roads and in what percentages and that in 30% of the causes of car accidents with the number of deaths. Now listen to this information. From 2002 to 2006 since the safety driving centres must be used, since this legal obligation is the number of accidents with the fatal consequences of young people aged 18 to 21 years has been reduced by 30%. In the Republic of Croatia, we should make at least four such centres in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, or by these cities to implement this programme. It should also act preventively and to increase the security situation on our roads and in the area of resolution of dangerous places. There we have achieved good initial results and on, everywhere where dangerous places have been remedied, we record a very large crash. So we have to continue to resuscitate dangerous places, but we need to give it space in the law as well. Unfortunately, however, the new one, as I have already pointed out, is not resting on prevention but on repression and punishment. Thus, it proposes an elaborate system of penalties for 83 violations of the fine of 300 kuna, for 48 penalties of 500 kuna, for 15 violations of the fine of 700 kuna, for 29 violations of the fine of 1000 kuna, for 21 violations of the fine of 2000 kuna. What we can conclude and with certainty argue that the current policy of punishment with greater and greater penalties, as we can see, has not been achieved, there have been more infringers, more accidents, more victims and deaths. Here's the data, I'm talking, I'm trying to speak with argument. In 2004, there were 300,000 cases before the first-degree infringement courts, 2005. 345 thousand items, 2006. 360 thousand items and 2007 near 500 thousand items. One of the most controversial and publicly disputed solutions is the one in the ban on motor vehicle management and for the least amount of alcohol in the blood because it was considered that such a measure could significantly contribute to the decline of the number of accidents. Quite contrary to the expectations of the legislator I do not question honestly, the number of drivers on the road with alcohol in the blood in excess of 0.5 grams per kilogram of blood has been radically increased. The system of proposed penalties which is too high for our Croatian opportunities, unconsistent and illogical should be in the function of prevention and not that it is purpose to itself. Penalty must be on a rational basis and must avoid situations in which it is punished so that citizens have no sense of reason and need for punishment. For example, pointlessly set speed limits that are not respected, so to those limits, I mean seriously question the driver's willingness to respect the regulations without reservation. And allow only one example but very significant. I would ask the presidents of the motion to seriously consider the proposal they will make. We have, unlike the countries of the European Union, the situation I call them "the wait-out", our traffic police officers not by their own fault but by the guilt of their bosses who have orders against them to execute to collect a number of cases, so that there are a number of penalties behind the bush, behind a certain eye, waiting for a stop sign and a penalty payment. I suggest something else. Let our traffic cops, whom I greatly appreciate, be integrated into traffic and then follow what happens in traffic and then react. You have a truck driver situation. It's a common case, as drivers you've probably experienced not once but at least 100 times. A column of 3, 5 and more vehicles is formed, they are obliged in the first place where it is possible to move along the road to miss the column, because when they do not miss the column, drivers run over and then accidents happen. So some cops, traffic cops in a vehicle that isn't marked as police tracking it, and let them react, but thus increase traffic safety on the roads. It's final. The repression cannot have a decisive impact on the safety of transport, but security is significantly more contributing to the measures relating to driver education, raising the general level of traffic awareness and culture, raising technical conditions in transport, and systematicity and rationality in the construction of the transport system at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6559	Thank you. For the club of the CNS Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6560	Dear Vice President, Ministers and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The response to the challenge of improving road safety in the most developed countries is significantly different from ours. Ethically well-founded, scientifically thoroughd, thoroughly explored, socially and politically measured and balanced, formed as a complex and connected whole of phase efforts. In our case, this response is a hasty, extorted reaction to the emerging state, one-sided and focused in the short term with extremely repressive features that will not produce results or will be very short-lived as they were after the change of the traffic safety law on the roads in 2004. The characteristics of traffic accidents are that predictable and removable, multidisciplinary scientific question, resulting from errors of drivers and pedestrians which necessarily do not have to lead to death or injury, if the traffic system is properly arranged, then that the vulnerability of man is the final parameter according to which the traffic system and its development should be regulated and that local solutions can significantly affect safety. Developed European countries are systematically and fully investigating all transport factors as sources of danger. Participants, roads, vehicles and the social environment of transport, while this law, as so far, lays everything down on the driver and yet the law suggests those who conduct traffic surveillance and apply repressive measures based on poorly analyzed data obtained from the scene of traffic accidents. The prevention of traffic loss will not be achieved by this law but by a complex system of various measures, with the participation of all the factors of society. This law can only briefly affect drivers until they realize that there is essentially nothing new in this law and that responsibility for committing the offence can be avoided further. An example. Parking and other offences identified without stopping the driver, therefore, where the identity of the perpetrator of the offence is not directly identified, the driver, the owner of the vehicle, which was found in the offence, are subsequently sought. There are various possibilities for a driver to be called to the benefit of not testifying if it is a narrow family member, that the owner of a vehicle cannot determine which of his family members drove the requested day, because he does not keep records, and everyone denies it. Therefore, the provision that the owner of the vehicle, or the person to whom the vehicle is entrusted, is obliged to provide a credible information on the identity of the person who gave the vehicle to the control, Article 229(3), can be easily played. We propose supplementing the article in such a way as to enable the owner of the vehicle which was unable to determine exactly who was operating its vehicle to impose a registration obligation and the penalty for not keeping records may be charged. So, he's not gonna be worth the fuss so he doesn't know who's driving his car. Second. Running away from the police. Turns out it's more favourable than stopping if the driver is under the influence of alcohol and possibly manages an unregistered vehicle, and the police don't usually go crazy for such drivers because they're afraid to damage an official vehicle because they end up in tighter courts, so the method of less resistance is so that cultural drivers are punished and savages avoid responsibility. More consistent compliance with the traffic rules will not be achieved by increasing penalties but by consistent application of the law and the high likelihood that anyone who violates the regulation will be caught in breach of the rules and subsequently punished. For example, if it is known that the tunnels are 24 hours under camera surveillance and that any driver who breaks the speed limit will be punished, then a very small number of drivers will exceed the prescribed speed. The data on accidents are not based on complex network analysis of parameters such as road condition, climate conditions, vehicle type and characteristics, time of accident, etc. Therefore, there is no complex analysis of accidents, of certain types of vehicles in certain situations at specific sites. There's no example of traffic accidents due to unadjusted speeds. How many were there during the rain or snow, but let's punish us for speed by beautiful sunny weather and by places where the offence is most easily established flat section of the road, and the quiet majority of normal driver kicks will pay the fine. I'm talking to my colleagues about how much the police are involved in the traffic. In addition to the National Road Traffic Safety Programme in the Republic of Croatia, there are no other projects until 2010, nor have traffic safety policies in road transport been adopted. The operator of the program is the MUP. The design of the programme should have provided national advice on road safety. However, that body was abolished. We're asking why? It should be said that European countries with a high degree of transport security have less strict criminal rights than those with a lower level of traffic safety. This can be compared with the legislation of Sweden, Norway on the one hand and Italy on the other. However, there is something else in the countries of the highest degree of security – the high likelihood of prosecution of all perpetrators of traffic offences, both because of the high degree of detection of crimes and because of consistency in the pursuit of persecution. The law was passed without using scientific research. There wasn't any in the working group of scientists. The data based on which the statistical arguments for new solutions were based were exclusively derived from internal affairs portfolios. The statistical argument is actually based on data provided by operational police officers in the reports. By the nature of things, these are preliminary data closely focused. They are based on the observations of police officers, which change during the trial and the key problem is their reliability. Therefore, this law, unlike the countries of the highest degree of traffic security, is not the result of scientific research, but of an operational approach. He's no news at all. In the regulatory section, it was an earlier regulation in 2004. Media coverage has now become the current social and day-to-day policy framework of working on the law, so the most intense issue of Croatia's social set of improvements in the state of transport security has become a political issue, not a result of long-term, planned, scientific work. We believe that the law is not complete or just, because whoever has money for easy violations that do not carry negative breaking points can always pay the same fines. It would be fairer if the basic, initial penalty increased by as many times as the offence was committed and that the basic initial penalties were significantly lower, more appropriate for Croatian salaries. In all of this, the focus was to eliminate alcohol up to 0.5 prominences caused by 5% of accidents, but it overshadowed other far more important issues. It is insane that someone who will cause 10 or more traffic accidents due to not keeping the distance between the vehicle or the unadjusted speed pays a monetary penalty for a distance or for an unadjusted speed of 500 kuna increased by up to 1000 kuna in the case of material damage, although that can be an additional 100 kuna. And up to 2,000 kuna in accidents with injured persons, not to be determined in such cases by violations, negative points, or protective measures. According to this law, such drivers do not pose a threat to this company, while the driver who will measure 0.51 blood alcohol spills and who has not committed any traffic violation pays 1000 to 2000 kuna and will receive 2 negative misdemeanor points. The condition of Croatian roads, traffic signals and the chaos of parking in cities is obviously underrated, pushed to the edge. Obsolete traffic signalling, signs of restrictions in populated places that are not, in fact, numerous unsanitary dangerous places, non-maintainment of road surfaces and banks, the lack of footing, which is why pedestrians suffer in rural areas as well as the lack of public lighting where pedestrians are moving are examples of the situation in which the Croatian transport infrastructure is located. The law is based and aimed at the urgent halting of the trend of road traffic casualties. Unfortunately, the law seeks to achieve this key goal only by expanding, sharpening and deepening the criminal repression. Violent repression is either the goal or the context of the most important news in the law. Almost all of the misdemeanor provisions are primarily one-way to traffic users, and among them most of all motor vehicle drivers. According to such access by the Croatian legislator, the problems of traffic security are simply an almost operational police issue of disciplining irresponsible drivers and it is possible to resolve the spread and tighten the repression of active road users. According to that view, other traffic safety factors are second-class, and this means that they can still remain in the state they are in. Transport sufferings require a specific integrated and appropriate programme of diverse measures to prevent them from being complex, diverse, expensive. But just, reliable and lasting. And, of course, by means of measures of post-delictum, which are mainly related to the application of repressive measures and the elimination or reduction of harmful consequences. The modern programme should be built on the basis of a national strategy not even mentioned in the law. I mentioned the body's national council abolished. The only goal discussed in lawmaking was an urgent reduction in the number of traffic accidents. This urgent and important short-term goal could be achieved by strengthening road care and security facilities by revising the status of signs and markings, with significant greater responsibility in the performance of road works, more appropriate work by inspection services, in particular by increasing field police surveillance, primarily by redistributing police forces, with significant cold reserves, for example, in the intervention police. With its strictness and level of punishment, the law in the near future will certainly lead to new tails in front of prisons, i.e. until the new wave of exchange of fines with... the prison, but also to tighten the problem of consistent and equal application of new criminal provisions, as well as the increase of the accompanying appearances of disguises at places more severe in easier violations and micro-corruption of surveillance entities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The intensity of repression must rest on clear goals, be fair, equal for all and proportionate to general social and individual conditions. The application of criminal sanctions has already been in a state of real blockade due to problems with the execution of fines. The tightening of the criminal repression was necessary in some cases, however, contrary to what the applicant stated in the context of the bill's proposal, the key to the effectiveness of the criminal repression is not strict penalties but certainty, urgency and justice of persecution. Namely, the police's discovery activity has been done before and now in virtually the same way mainly by police regulations, and the question of whether police will be able to better and more effectively detect violations. The traffic police take full responsibility for the road safety situation by law through the concentration of rights and duties. Transport police should be provided with the necessary equipment and means, as well as specially valid and permanent and continuous training. Traffic officers must possess specific expertise, practicality, ability and necessary skills and be appropriate to citizens. The activity of the traffic police must be focused on key clearly defined tasks to combat the most dangerous reckless sights of breach of fundamental traffic safety regulations. The collection of fines from the bush at sites of questionable signs of speed limitation should be interrupted, and attention should be permanently focused on the most dangerous types of traffic violations, increased child protection, removal of dangerous places, assistance to participants who need it, etc. One important reason to doubt the success of the new law should not be underestimated, and this is the prison capacity of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the prison sentences are of similar importance and those who are sentenced to fines are replaced by prison sentences. Currently, there are thousands of people who can't be invited to a prison sentence because the prison system is overcrowded. It's a serious objection to the pursuit of an infractional repression and makes it inconclusive. I have a few specific questions. Why has the National Transport Safety Alliance been abolished? Why does his former role lose the centre for the vehicles of the Republic of Croatia? Where and why did you lose the driver's license for severe violations on the scene? I would like to have information on the application or better to say not to apply previous penalties for drivers with more than 9 criminal points in terms of teaching and passing exams. Did they after that do what an even more severe car accident and who is responsible for it, and we know that no lectures and exams were conducted as predicted by the law. What's the point of a drastic increase in cash repression for a driver if now thousands of them are waiting for a prison sentence because they don't have the money to pay the fine. They don't have any money, we don't have a place in prison. How many of those few thousand in prison get out of jail from the execution of a prison sentence? Why are you not prone to the basis of the majority example of European practice this area is normally regulated by the Ministry of Transport and not by the Ministry of the Interior? Finally, this law overestimates repression because we have it at a high normative level so far, but we have shown that we do not know how to deal with it, and it underestimates some of the key elements of road safety. First of all, this is a lack of political will to coordinate and communicate with science, to eliminate national road safety councils, not to respect remarks and useful proposals from transport associations and professional organisations. Then a low level of power to implement the regulations that we adopt, the crossing of roads across railway lines as an extremely strong factor of accident and mortality and structure, education and prevention, the lack of the use of some modern technology in traffic surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6561	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6562	I'm closing up. Too much of what is not respected, and to get a good road safety law that would significantly reduce the number of accidents and preserve hundreds of human lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6563	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, respected Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6564	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The very interesting data are statistics that are seen from this bill and all other documents that we received during the assembly sessions, which show that half of the population of Croatia has a driving licence. So that figure went over 2 million and 100 grand. It's even more interesting, but actually a frightening data that can be read from these materials, that young drivers in the total number of traffic accidents caused by drivers under the influence of alcohol account for 30%. But what it says behind that is that the share of deaths in this young population is 40%. The provision on let me say so popularly as the word "00" was made up by Mr. Minister, it seems to me that he's not holding water. Namely, if they look at each other, so-called. The relative indicators in the table on page 4, then it appears that the share with the deceased and in drivers who had up to 0,5 alcohol spills since 2004, when the decision on August 20 was passed by 5.8 and then 8.8 and 9.9% and 7.5% respectively. When we take the average percentage, that's 8.7 from 2004 where 5.8% is. If we look further to say this repressive part which is firstly recommended here and which is analysed in certain offences, then we see that these penalties, the fines, are disproportionate to the standard of our citizens. So they're too tall. So here, indeed, as some of the predecessors said in the speech, went one repressive way to reduce, or increase road safety and reduce the number of traffic accidents, especially those with fatal consequences. In the light of this law, i.e. the draft law, it is said to be in accordance with the European Union directives and to list the tax on which Directives are listed and from which year. So we have directives from 2000, 2003, 2006. These directives have made certain changes to the law. For example. use of the lamps, then attach the passenger in the passenger seat, then the possibility of sitting children up to two years in the front seat, use of the seat belt, etc. Since these provisions were therefore based on EU directives, which have been dated since 2000, I think this could have been applied before. When I went to Hungary a few years ago, then I paid the fine, then it went shopping in Shikloš, Harkanj, Pechuh and so on because of the unplugged lights. Today, here in our material, it says that this provision is abolished because that way we would not have to pay the Hungarians or I don't know who, that they don't waste the battery energy in vain. It increases fuel consumption, and it's also damaged to say, in some ways, environmentals and the environment. I would specifically refer to one part that does not seem sufficiently mass covered by this bill, and that is given that my observations have arisen since I come from a city that almost has a cyclist like Beijing, and that category of traffic participants is not sufficiently covered by this bill. We all know that a cyclist has old and young people, that there are those who have not had to say traffic education, who are not familiar with traffic signs, who are not familiar with the culture of traffic and who are involved in traffic very often, and we also have statistics on how many, they know how to disrupt and threaten traffic. They're not motor vehicles, so they're not subject to legal sanctions in case of insurance, no bicycle insurance, so there's no car liability or liability of a motor vehicle. And as for the very provisions set out here in the bill, we have on page 80 of the clause that says that bicycles are not to be managed by a person who... She turned 14 and didn't want me to count on her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Afterwards, he writes that the training programme for bicycle riding, cycling exams and certification form is prescribed by the minister responsible for education affairs. So, in this bill of law, I don't know if, by sublegal act, it's going to be solved, I don't know, but really, it's not written, so it's going to be announced that cyclists are also going to go to a kind of test, exams, and get confirmation of that. If that's what I figured out from this bill. Article 216 also continues to apply to this Article 215 literally states that the right to drive a particular category of vehicle will be issued if the person is mentally and physically able to drive a particular category vehicle. Does this also mean that cyclists will also go for a medical examination for the ability to ride a bike? But the vehicle, the vehicle, it's a bike. It's not a motor vehicle, it's a vehicle. Also in some provisions of this law for the same offences as those for cyclists, there are relatively less fines than for motor vehicle drivers. I noticed in the bill that it is also not necessary to undergo a medical examination until 80 years of age, but that the driver's license or the Permidi convair is issued with automation every ten years, the right to driver's license is renewed. Now. If we take people over the age of 70 we know what our population is like, we know the problems of their health and health problems, people at 78, 79, so we don't have to undergo a medical examination, I don't get it. As a surgeon and traumatist, really seeing a lot of things that came from our roads with very tragic and sad consequences, I really want to, so I also volunteered to participate, to participate in this debate, to certainly reduce the mortality rate and incidence of the injured, to, and especially seriously injured on our roads. That is why I agree with colleagues who discussed before me that there is a deeper need than one of these, and I would say to the repressive proposal of the law to come up with or continue to work on the design of the National Transport Safety Strategy and to set up a centre for safe driving. If Austria, which has 7 and a half million, up to 8 million inhabitants, has 13 such centres, then Croatia can have 7, 6, 8 such centres that would certainly help train, especially young drivers, traffic safety on the roads. When I mentioned this table with the number of deaths up to 0, participants who had up to 0.5, then I agree with also a colleague who spoke before me, that the analysis was not complex or as he said complex, because it did not include other road factors, weather conditions and anything else that should be entered into one such serious analysis. And here at the end of these 0.5 prominences that we have in Slavonia caused and the creation of already various Viennas on the subject of what Mr. Škoro knows is, "No one has anything Croatian has, 0.0 from the Croatian government" or "What does this Sanader Ivo do to us, you can't drink wine or beer" etc. I say the time has come to put an end to this because it has indeed proved that this provision has not significantly contributed to the reduction of mortality in this category to 0.5 permeations on our roads. And here's the gentleman... I hope you'll have a glass of wine soon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6565	Thank you. For the HSS club, a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6566	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs, Mr. Minister with his associates. The Croatian Peasant Party will support the adoption of this law in its first reading, above all, because the HSS has since 2004, proposed that the Road Safety Act is not improved, especially when it comes to the 0,0 provisions, because the data show that the 0,0 measure has not improved road safety and domestic winemaking has been affected. According to information from the Croatian Institute of Wine and Vineyards, the consumption of wine has been estimated to have fallen by 30% since the Law on Road Safety entered into force, hence the provisions of 0.0. In 2004, the production of wine in Croatia amounted to a thousand, 510 thousand hectolitres, and in 2006, 731 thousand hectolitres. Also, if the trend of growth and the decline of domestic wine traffic is seen, then it can be said that domestic production dropped by 13% compared to 11% in 2006 compared to 2005. On the other hand, 13% more people died in 2007 than in 2006 while the number of traffic accidents increased by 7%. Croatian roads are among the most dangerous in the world, but not because of a glass of wine, but because of the insufficient efficiency of the state system in preventing savagery and punishing transport culture and putting all Croatian citizens in danger of life and property as well as due to insufficient investment in the restoration of local, regional and state roads. In addition, Croatia is traditionally turned to the production of wine that is part of the tourist offer. This is why the Government and the Parliament need to encourage agricultural production and tourism through fair and useful laws, which will be believed now and realised because the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal to abolish 0.0 has been adopted and return the 0.5 promiscation provision. Most of the European Union countries, such as Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany and Spain, tolerate 0.5 prominence and some countries such as Ireland, Luxembourg, Great Britain and the United States even 0.8 prominence. But the biggest problem, therefore, is not a glass of wine, but a road accident that causes inappropriate and irregular speed and makes up as much as 30% of all traffic accidents, and this usually happens because the reduction in vehicle speed control on roads. Speed control doesn't matter less speed exceeding 10%, it's much higher, and drivers should get a sign in auto-schools about that speed. The appropriate, manual, adjusted, safety speed cannot be controlled preventively as it is done in the borderline prescribed speeds. For the sake of a weak assessment of the appropriate speed of the driver, the vehicle is often rolling, resulting in traffic accidents. The example works, on the highways the vehicle can move up to 130 kilometers per hour and, of course, in ideal conditions. As soon as the conditions for driving are not the best duty for the driver to adjust the speed of movement, reduce the speed of movement so that in any emergency situation it can stand in a timely manner before any obstacle, but we are witnessing that this is very rarely happening. Therefore, the speed of movement is crucial to traffic developments and is almost as a rule the very element leading to endangerment and in a large part relative to the total number of traffic accidents exactly the percentage of those who have been injured due to the excessive rate of movement. The road safety assessment criteria give more than the number of deaths compared to 100,000 inhabitants and somewhere millions of vehicles. In Croatia, 14.7 were killed by 100,000 inhabitants. The tendency, as has already been highlighted in the discussions, is that by the time we enter the European Union, there are up to 10 deaths, although experts suggest up to eight deaths. On the second criterion, 143 were killed on a million vehicles. At the safety of transport in front of Croatia are the UK 60, Sweden 66, the Netherlands 68, Denmark 81, Finland 84, Germany 85, Ireland 107, Italy 119, Austria 119, Slovenia 122, Bosnia and Herzegovina 136, France 137, Spain 138. Road safety is often associated with road quality and there are still many black points on our roads. It has been shown that black dots recovery reduces the number of accidents on those parts even by 90%. However, driving on roads or highways is not exclusively a matter of good design and final construction but a human factor is significant on both the road and the highway. We can say that Croatian highways are built on the strictest European criteria and, technically, there are no objections to what foreign experts agree on. The highway is by its nature a high level of service infrastructure road facility, thus providing users with the highest standard of comfort and safety but the main killer on our roads is the lack of driving culture. Although hardly many can afford a new BMW or Ferrari but the driving culture cannot buy. It's a civilization achievement, a kind of social phenomenon. This is why we believe that all institutions in Croatia should turn the page and start today with intensive implanting of some new civilizational habits when it comes to road behaviour. Of course, the results can't be achieved overnight but it's worth the effort because they're about the lives of our children, our grandsons, our loved ones. In order for things to really start to change for the better, we have to start first of all. It is very important in transport to make a decent gesture that rarely, when we experience it, enable a fellow driver to engage in traffic, try calmly and civilisedly to resolve any misunderstanding. In Finland, where penalties are consistent with the incomes of the offenders, one Nokia manager was fined by 116,000 euros because he was driving his motorcycle 25km an hour faster than permitted. With such punishments, we certainly wouldn't have had situations like those when one of our tycoon, with a smile, paid 2 thousand kuna for speeding. How to stop road casualties is the question to which a response is sought after an increasing number of traffic tragedies. Traffic penalties are one of the regulators that should help deter dangerous drivers from savagery on the roads. However, our punishments are for one drastic and unsustainable and for others ridiculous. Many, for radical change and for the determination of fairer criteria, are able to achieve a more effective purpose of punishment, that is to say, they are at least equally affected and, of course, stop savages richer and those with more modest incomes than is the most. This could be achieved by proportionate punishment, and the level of punishment would be determined according to the property, but I suppose it is a proposal for a new debate. Wild rides and cases such as events with the Croatian tycoon are examples of dangers and inequalities of offenders before liability. Such are the cases of tycoon sons who have threatened other drivers for years with their wildness on the roads, collecting a hundred traffic reports from which money and relationships have been taken out by powerful fathers until the end of the tragedies. Their problems were only learned when they killed or mutilated someone. Even then, such money with good lawyers and a lot of other things will help them get away with it. All this leads to a security issue whose significant leverage should be traffic penalties. In order for them to be effective, they should be both just and equally guessed and stopped. I believe that this is exactly the kind of model that would seem a lot more preventive because we can't afford one, so they go to jail, do time, while others are the happiest when they can pay because it's actually the cheapest way to get away with it. Penalties, so neither traffic should be a purpose to themselves, nor should it be a way for the state to raise money. They're designed as preventive regulations, perhaps some kind of hackus that should deter people from committing traffic offences that can result in a tragedy. And a few specific things since the law is in the first reading, so we'd like to get it straight to the second reading. First of all, we would like to know how the national objectives set in the national programme will be achieved. And we also believe that it is necessary to set up advice to monitor the implementation of the national programme itself. We suggest that Article 19 be revised and related to the blinking of green light, as the same article gives freedom to cities to regulate the change of green light differently in yellow, increasing the time of the passing dilemma to 7 to 8 seconds, which increases the number of traffic accidents. And the same does not apply in most countries of our region. In Article 102, we also propose to revise the provision relating to the use of day-to-day or short-lights during a period of winter-time calculation. So we must also take care of the environmental and security reasons that conditioned the abolition of the obligation to use day or short lights by day as well as the geographical and climate specificities of individual areas of the Republic of Croatia. So we propose to delete point 1 of Article 102 entirely, because the solution between is never a good solution and could lead to confusion. We also propose in Article 147 to add paragraph 2. The question is that motor vehicle drivers should be obliged to include all four direction indicators, which is not currently foreseen, in the event of a vehicle stopping in the tunnel. Also when we talk about Article 228 of the International License, it is our proposal to issue with a period of validity of 3 years from the date of issue, namely the International Convention on Road Traffic with the Final Document, as well as other annexes of the Conventions. So the validity of the driver's license for three years is something that should also be the subject of this law. I would also like to draw your attention to the provisions of Article 243, namely, it is often that vehicles produced in large numbers at the time of production to exceed the prescribed values when it comes to permitted mass, permitted axle load. First of all, autocarers who come to register their vehicle pay for mass registration and axle load as stated in the truck purchase papers. And then it happens that through the Department of Transport's regulation, which is prescribed, which is the greatest burden on the same car carriers is punishable on the roads, which means that the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport actually disagreed with their regulations and that in some way the state acts as a stepmom. We also think that it should be included with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport only this lawmaking process so that everything does not work according to the cadia model and sues, cadia judges. Here, these remarks can also be delivered to you in writing. Finally, the HSS Club will support the adoption of the Road Traffic Safety Act in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6567	Thank you very much. In 10 and 56, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. 18 MPs and representatives of the individual debate have been reported. Now the IDS counseling club. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6568	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Here's how a man somehow doesn't believe it when he sees this law bearing the P.Z.E. mark, so it's about this European law. So it's not that one such pro-European party, like HDZ, with a 0,0 promila provision, has passed one anti-European law. It is not likely that a pro-European prime minister proposed an anti-European law when he proposed and insisted on a 0.0 prominence that today or that will soon go to the imposter of the past. The fact that many, let's say the caterers remained short of 10 thousand kuna, the fact that the winemakers remained short of 10 thousand kuna, the fact that the state budget had lost 100 million kuna in these four years, it obviously did not concern this government when we warned her what was going to happen. The 0.0 promiscation bill turns out to paraphrase Prime Minister Ivo Sanader into an anthology of Croatian political nonsense. The only thing a prime minister can be relieved of is that even part of the opposition voted in favour of my court an anti-Croatian norm and without those votes, the law would not have passed at that time. To defend in a Catholic Croatia, for example, in a Mediterranean Croatia that was raised in the culture of wine. So, to defend someone from drinking children or two wines is proof that some do not know the mentality of the citizens of this country. But it's not just that. You know or you don't know that mentality. The thing is whether you respect that mentality. I know that this law, in some way, came about as the fruit of the season of pickled pickles in the early summer, means in 2004, after there was no news at that beginning of summer except for, say, fires and car accidents, the government decided, for the sake of the alcoholisation of the driver, to refer to a law that does not correspond with common sense, even though it had the support of part of the media at that point. The same thing we gentlemen are going to do with this law with the Act of Labour on Sundays. And I'm warning you right now, let's not do that. Let's release the unions that have agreed nicely with the government on the ban on protests in St. Let us not harm merchants especially in the season, as we did to hosts, winemakers, but also citizens who had to pay dragon penalties for 0.2 or 0.3. Speaking of fines, I'll also send a message to the ministry, calm down, ease these amounts. Let's not tear people's skin out with these punishments. Let's get these people breathing. He collects everything. It's getting harder. It's going to get worse, and we're proposing a whole series of fines that are above those in Germany. We don't seem to understand that our citizens don't have the standard of those who live in Saudi Arabia or Kuwait. If this law bears the code P.Z.E. Then why are the penalties in this law above those in German law. That doesn't make sense. But that's why I also want to say it just doesn't have to, and that's why it's good that this law goes into second reading, to compete in the meantime with penalties that drivers pay in Germany with those proposed by the current minister. For example, Article 53 with 1000 kuna will be punished if you drive 20 to 30 km faster. With 500 kn if you drive 10 to 20 km faster. With 300 kuna if you drive up to 10 km faster. Well, I mean, it's not normal! Well, that's an exaggeration, and don't just do it! Same phone call. All right, come on, you can't use the phone. But drinking, smoking, eating ice cream in the car is what you can do. What is finally certainly done well that these lights do not have to be lit in the summer months or in the summer reckoning of time. But there are some interesting provisions about escorted vehicles as well. First, what this House should be sending a message, which is either to Sanader and Mesic's insurance that when they're being followed, it means those columns, the cops don't threaten, to stop jeopardizing the safety of the other drivers. You're throwing yourself one metre to the other side and now whoever lives who dies. All those who come to meet you must run off the road and tell those people that no one is threatening them, that no one is threatening them, and therefore, let them not act like sheriffs on those roads, those who are on those escorts. Because in Croatia, we don't just need a sheriff. But speaking of sheriffs, I'll say it's that way when it comes to this law, that's what the former president of the Parliament did. It is not true that the government did not give an opinion so that this law could not be discussed. She gave her opinion on the IDS proposal for a law that we asked her to return to 0.5 of the past on 17 September 2004. True, it was a negative opinion, but the government gave its opinion and even appointed its representatives to defend their position or before the law was passed. Government representatives were today to be the late Mr. Mlinarić, current secretary Buconjic, Franjic, etc. And the fact that this standard of 0.00 prominence should have changed clearly also the fact that in this country, for example, a pilot can drive a plane or a plane with two hundred passengers with 0.5 prominences. Equally, ship captains with 30 or 50 thousand tons of oil can sail into our refineries or ports. But car drivers can't drive or shouldn't if they had 0.2 proms. Speaking of punishment, I'll say it one more time. Please, let's not go above the fines that Germany knows. We don't have the Kuwait standard. Unplugged lights in Croatia were 300 kuna, in Germany zero kuna. Non-binding of the 500 kuna belt or 68 euros in Croatia, in Germany 30 euros. Speech by phone 500 kuna in Croatia 68 euros, in Germany 40 euros. Irregular overrun of 300 to 1000 kuna in Croatia 43 to 137 euros, in Germany 30 to 125 euros. Why do I place an emphasis on these penalties, gentlemen? Because all the penalties that have been proposed lately, this isn't just about the Traffic Safety Act. It's just like that in all the laws we adopt. They're flying under the clouds! It can simply be suggested only by one who does not earn bread with his hands and should simply stand on the ball. The second question is death cases. With 0.5 permeations or up to 0.5, 2% of these drivers have caused a tragedy, and that's clearly terrible. But that 0,0 promila did not reduce the number of injuries. In 2004, we had 608 deaths, 2005 the truth falls to 597, 2006. 614, 2007. 619. True, in 2003 we had a record 701 dead on the road, 2002. 627, 2001. 647. War '94, '95. It's even 800. What brings down the death toll? Well, first of all, better roads, more highways. If we protect the railway crossings for which it may be necessary to secure a billion kuna in the state budget, I am convinced that the number of people killed in Croatia on the roads would be reduced by almost 5%. Why aren't you going that way? The truth on the other hand is that the trend of reducing the number of fatalities will be difficult to achieve. Why? Because every year we have more cars and more drivers. In 2004, there were a million 723 thousand motor vehicles on our roads, in 2007, there were a million 976 thousand motor vehicles. We've got 250,000 cars over three years. Perhaps this data, which speaks among other things about the standard of Croatian citizens, has been managed by the ministry when they propose such penalties, and the number of drivers in the same period has increased by 120 thousand. So the main victim at this speed is bad roads, these are black spots, these are clearly unprotected railway crossings. Unfortunately for what we all know, there are fewer and fewer on the highways every day. There's more and more accidents on the fast roads, on the local roads. To this day or to this law, young drivers were not allowed to drive cars from 23 to 5 a.m. And it's good to delete it. That's really good. Because what were we doing with one of those standards? We just encouraged myself to express myself intoxicating them, I'm not going to say drugging and staying young all night outside of my homes. Instead of disco clubs of these folkers, etc. We close at two o'clock in the morning, allow them maximum until three o'clock in the morning, we stop young drivers from driving till 5:00, but we made them drink until 5:00 a.m. to start coming home at that moment. ... It's literally like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's right, Skoro. And it's good to give it up now. And even let those young drivers have a glass of beer or a glass of wine. Let's not give them those 0.5 permeations, but let's give them 0.3 permeate. There's no need to paint that someone's gonna be in some disco all night and they're not gonna have a beer there. Let's get them a beer, let's give them that 0.3 pomegranate, and maybe even let the professional drivers have that beer. By the time we've given the gentlemen to the pilots, the commanders of the aircraft that they can fly at 0.5, that is, when we've given the captains of the ships that they can drive at 0.5. This law will be passed clearly, if for nothing and for the season. Croatia cannot as one Mediterranean country have something that no one in the Mediterranean knows about, but I warn you once again, these penalties are dragonish and often those who propose laws with such penalties simply do not have measures. They just don't know what it's like to live with two, three or five thousand kunas. And that's why it's good to say once again, that the law goes into another reading, but it would be even better if someone executed our penalties with those or in this bill with those who have in one not so far away from Germany. What I also want to warn about when it comes to these penalties, as bold as it may sound, because everyone knows what positions I'm in when it comes to 0.0, maybe it's even better to keep the old law with 0.0 than the one with 0.5, but that's why with the dragon sentences that many will simply send to prison rather than pay the fine, because they won't have anything to pay the fine. Death cases are clearly mentioned in the world, in decline or increase, but it is mostly less than in Croatia. But another piece of information. You can go all over Europe today and you won't see on their highways or anywhere else, not one cop. When you leave Rijeka to Zagreb, you must drive along the road Ko' Janica Kostelic, you must avoid all those interceptors, those who come out of you do not know on the highways that have these recording devices etc. I mean, let's not just leave it that way or act like it. Mr. Representative Boro had just quoted this Hungarian as saying "no one has what the Croats have, 0.0 from the Croatian government, which this Sanader Ivo does to us, you can't drink beer or wine". But once again I will say, with these penalties many will be hungry and therefore thirsty and will rather do that sentence in prison than pay for it because they will have nothing to pay for so that they will start singing again in a way that people will rather go to jail than pay for it. All in all, it's a good thing that the law came on the agenda. It's good to talk about removing those 0.0 prominence standards. Let's say more, and let's question ourselves when it comes to penalties, because this practice that we strive to bring to heaven every law, just doesn't lead to anything anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6569	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, respected Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6570	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We at the National Minorities Club support the adoption of a new Law on Road Safety, its alignment with European Union regulations, but certainly also with amended laws such as the Criminal Law and other laws. The fact is that the law passed in 2004 did not result in a better state of transport where the introduction of zero tolerance to alcohol or stricter penalties did not increase road safety and did not reduce the number of people killed and injured. 619 people killed in 2007 or 31.3 died on 100,000 motor vehicles, placed us in the middle and most numerous groups of European Union countries, indicating shifts from the 1990s. But if we add to that a significant improvement in our roads, we remain at 27% as the most common cause of the accident. Therefore, it is good to tighten the penalties for precisely these offenders of speed lovers, but also to make larger gradations within the penalty depending on the speed, because it is not the same to exceed the speed in the settlement by 10 kilometers or exceed it by 50 kilometers, which makes it double this time speed, but certainly also penalties, because the fines from 5 thousand to 15 thousand or even 60 days in prison will obviously result in positive shifts where everyone will think about them before pressing the gas slippers. Although alcohol is mentioned as the most common cause of traffic accidents, especially those with severe consequences, and always occurs in correlation with the speed and non-resonal behaviour of the driver, those with up to 0,5 prominences point to a tendency of reduction. This means that drivers who take care of traffic safety will continue to do so, will drink this law now allowing a glass of wine or a bottle of beer. We, indeed, welcome these changes in the minority club, by being a tourist country, by being producers of quality wines and beer and, as a colleague from HSS pointed out or a colleague of Cain, consumption fell significantly, and certainly at a time when we should increase the area under the vineyards before entering the European Union, this was not a commendable measure. Detention, punishment of drivers up to 0,5 prominences for each offence has an excuse, but exclusive participants in non-guilty accidents would have to be excluded but the circumstances of the offence would have led to participants. Professional drivers, instructors must indeed be persons without this vice and it is good to keep 0 proms, and that punishments for them are somewhat sharper, because not only are they permanent traffic participants but instructors should still be a role model. It is good to delete from the new law a provision under which a driver of a private car cannot drive a person under the influence of alcohol in front of the front seat, since the question of how to determine it, or if it is symptomatic, is it not better to keep an eye on such a companion instead of behind his back in the back seat? What we particularly welcome is regulation for young drivers both the speed limit and the restriction or the exemption of alcohol, as well as the limitation of vehicle strength. It is good that the new law releases time limits between 23 and 5 a.m. when the young driver was not allowed to drive because we really did have a counterproductive effect. It's 11 o'clock early to go home. It's five o'clock. Normally, alcohol is consumed frequently and the consequences were visible, since not all parents were ready at 2.3 a.m. to pick up their children or were not all ready to use a taxi. Thanks to environmentalists, it means primarily global warming but also fuel consumption lighting means daily and short will only be limited during the winter time calculation period with the exception of motorcycles and mopeds. I ask the question, or I hope that their use beyond this restriction will not be treated as a violation because the nebulas are often taken as a violation, so I'm afraid that this could not be treated at some point, so we should take account of it. Although a limited circle of business to local self-government units is now just parking or moving vehicles, vehicle surveillance, fines that units of local self-government will charge remain their income and I think it is good and will stimulate both cities and municipalities to introduce a larger order in parking. A particular problem was presented and still represented drivers without driving exams which are very often involved in traffic accidents. And I was amazed by the information I found here in the bill that even 6% of the offenders didn't have driver's license that I couldn't imagine anyone dared to get into traffic like that. And so not only do they not know the rules about road safety, they really have no experience. And so I welcome bigger and sharper penalties because I say 6% of those who get caught because they've committed a misdemeanor, they don't have driver's licenses, which means that such participants are even more. It is equally good that the sanctions for repeaters of the offense are greater because we have recently witnessed severe accidents where participants are drivers of 20 unrestrained offences. Finally, it is also worth the introduction of an oral or written warning measure, Article 294 where infringements where a fine of up to one thousand kuna is prescribed may mean that if no interference or threat to another participant in traffic are to mean oral or written warning, because the fact is that the repressive measures have been so far in the law. This means they're even tougher. Thus, even such a measure, perhaps adding a little more education, could certainly also have good effects on traffic safety. We at the club did not specifically analyse roads as a basis for traffic and safety on roads because they are often not mentioned as causes of accidents and uncertainty on roads although they cannot be excluded and the profession is often alerted to roads, to vague traffic signalling or to unclear road markings that are due to certain traffic accidents. And so I think there may be an expert among us who will certainly process that segment. We therefore once again support the adoption of this law and the fact that the law goes into two readings. This will certainly enable all the positive and necessary remarks and proposals that will further improve this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6571	Thank you. Interior Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I did not expect the debate on the Road Safety Act to mention the pro-European orientation of the Croatian government's prime minister, Dr. Sanader, to be free to comment. On behalf of the IDS club, former ruling coalition member from 2000 to 2003, this pro-European orientation of Dr Sanader mentioned before the 2003 elections in a way that feared the Croatian people with the coming HDZ under the leadership of Dr Sanader that we would be away from the European Union and the matter and the Croatian voters and the state of movement said that the disputed pro-European prime minister in his term had started pre-accession negotiations, in his term, Croatia received an invitation to NATO and in his mandate Croatia went further, the speed at which it could only measure the envy of some political factors which, because it is so. Also, some other pro-European prime ministers should then be challenged because of a 0,0 provision that was for a time a provision in the Road Safety Act or some appropriate name, but in view of the differences in names such as in a particular country, and by that logic could also challenge the pro-European orientation of, say, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic in which there is still a 0,0 provision for all drivers, the prime minister of Estonia, the prime minister of Hungary, the prime minister of Slovakia, and those are countries that are members of the European Union, and these are countries that are members of NATO, which are very often precisely mentioned from opposition lines that we should compare with them because they have done and achieved what we want. So much for European and pro-European orientations. Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. I thank you for the club debates, for the suggestions made. Since this is the first reading of the Ministry of Interior prepared by the Government, this law as a proponent of this law will carefully consider and read from the phonograms of this session and the discussions of clubs of normal and individual debates of all legislators and all good proposals, of course all proposals will be carefully delayed and, if we consider that they will contribute to improving the text of the law with the ultimate goal of raising the level of road safety absolutely and included in the final draft of the law. But allow a few individual references to the exposure as a representative of the constituency committees, as a representative of the clubs. The definition of young drivers is in line with the European Union directives because the European Union Directives bind the concept of a young driver precisely at the age of 16 to 24. The data we have at the Ministry of the Interior says that drivers up to 24 years out of the total number of drivers, 90% pass the driver's exam by 24 years. Therefore, it is also a trend for young people, it is a reality and this category and the definition of this category in the way it is aligned with the European Union directives, then it should not be disputed. I'm also allowing this information to be unknown. Drivers who are young in the sense of driving experience, who get their driving test, acquire the right to drive a motor vehicle at a later age according to statistics conducted by the Ministry of the Interior, significantly less appear as causes of traffic accidents. I spoke in the opening statement that this is about 30% in young drivers, in the driver's older age and the young driver's driver's coach, they're taking part at 5.6%. So it's much less. This law has passed, the preparation of this law has passed a broad debate because the Committee for the Making of a New Law included representatives of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Justice, the State Institute for Monitoring, the High Violent Court, the Central State Administration Office, the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia. Croatian Auto Club and the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities. I must say that citizens have also appeared through the Ministry of the Interior's e-mail address, contacted the Commission and sent their proposals, and some of these proposals, for example, in the definition of a camper vehicle, are one initiative and we have included this proposal because we have assessed that it is important to improve the definition of that category. It is not good to compare again when we talk about the fatalities, the consequences of the injuries, the consequences of the traffic accidents on Croatian roads and constantly and persistently compare several years in the application of existing provisions. I think it's good, and we have to compare it to the time before a provision comes into force. The 0.0 provision was a reaction to a large number of road fatalities. 701 people were killed on the roads. You remember when the law that introduced 0.0 came into force that the trend in the early months of 2004 was alarming, many social institutions and citizens reacted to this, they sought some kind of reaction from the Government of the Republic of Croatia because the projection of the movement of the number of fatalities in 2004 would have led to a trend in the initial months of 2004 with more than 800 deaths on the roads. And, of course, the government proposed to the Parliament a law that was a response to the situation on the ground. Something about dragon sentences. The terms of the Dragon Penalty are mentioned. However, distinguished parliamentary representatives, I must tell you that there are social groups that disagree with your reviews of the Dragon Penalties. I've got and here's a memo from the Association of Family Family People in Traffic requesting an increase in fines for traffic offenders. These are the people who started the association. When citizens form an association means they have a message to say, they have a desire to be heard. Therefore, these are persons who are severely affected by someone’s easy behavior, those are persons who are severely affected by someone’s desire for a little pleasant association, these are persons who are affected by the feeling that a passenger’s drink is a normal thing and are behind it sitting on the market. These are people who want to say a clear message "We don't want this to happen to anyone else when it's already happened to us or to our family members.". Dear Parliamentarians. The urgency of the procedure was removed for the reason I said so. We will respect the remarks and we still have enough time to put this law into place, bring it to this High House and start applying it by 1 June, until the start of the tourist season. How were laws in this home covering the area of road safety? In 1996, the law was passed. Then it's 2004. Mr. Sprem was talking about a wide public debate. Mr. Šprem, in the term of your party when you were responsible for managing Croatia with all due respect for this need for a broad public debate led to the fact that you failed to bring the law and the state of traffic security on the roads was wherever and where more alarming than now, the number of people killed and the number of seriously injured was rising where and where greater than that is now. We do not reject public debate, we have conducted it with the institutions that worked in the preparatory group that prepared this bill, and this debate I am confident that we will have a good law that will move towards road safety. Why is this bill a provision on the obligation of the centre of safe driving left out? Because there was only one in Croatia, because we cannot put one provision into the law without being at this moment, we cannot guarantee that we can make service available to all young drivers throughout Croatia in the near term. We have one centre of safe driving that is quality, which should be welcomed but is the only one in Croatia, it is in Zagreb and we cannot oblige young drivers to look for accommodation in Zagreb, take tenant relations to meet the obligation. The Austria you mentioned had a 20-year transitional period of the centre of safe driving. They're good. When conditions are met, it can normally be applied to the change of laws. A few words about the jackal. Mr. Vincelj, the waiter is something that is in the instructions on how to handle police officers when controlling traffic control and the regulations prohibit and police control according to our instructions to police officers, police officers must be visible on the road. Therefore, there is no instructions from competent police management personnel to wait for a full state budget. We are interested in the safety of traffic on the roads, and we are interested in as few victims as possible. Infringement law has given authority to use video surveillance and video footage as a violation law. Mr. President, thank you for the opportunity to address this brief comment on the presentation of representatives of clubs and committee representatives. We will listen carefully to individual debates and thank you for your participation in the debate so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6573	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6574	Dear President, here as Mr. Minister is certain, delighted in fact by the achievements of this government and the Prime Minister and certain that no one would be better. I am sure that someone else is that someone else, that the Croatian path to the European Union would be far faster. However, the guilty allegation, the minister says, is literally quoted as saying, "The speed that can measure the proximity of the European Union can only be measured by the envy of some MPs.". It's a done quote. Instead of the envy of the MPs, Mr. Minister, measure the speed of shutting down Croatian shipbuilding, the fall of Croatian standards, the collapse of pensions, the dissatisfaction of citizens with the purchases, etc. I don't envy the government when it has to deal with it and I don't like it because I know it's gonna be hard for everyone. But this 0.0 promiscation bill he was pro-European, anti-civilization, so whatever they think of it in Estonia, Lithuania, Hungary or Poland.../The speaker shut down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6575	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, co-workers. Let me say, I'm protesting, Mr. Minister's thesis that the government of Ivica Racana is long and public as you said you were discussing the Road Safety Bill so she couldn't bring it. Yeah. We conducted a discussion of such a character that we wanted as best solutions as possible, but then you took that text when you came to power in 2004 and you kicked out all the constructive solutions including the road safety alliance and you added 0.0, and that's when you thought about solving the problem, as you saw how you solved the problem. And secondly, allow me, the centers of safe driving. According to what you said, Mr. Minister, if Austria has been preparing the ground for the construction of the centre of safe driving for 20 years, it will take Croatia 20 years. I propose that centres of safe driving, joint efforts by the Government, insurance companies, professional organisations such as the Croatian Autoclub, the Centre for Vehicles be built as soon as possible and not later than later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6577	And Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6578	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect allegations of a minister who said that during the coalition government, the situation was much worse, that, if we hadn't conducted a public debate, we didn't have the strength to pass the Transport Safety Act, in transport. And then HDZ's government brought it in 2004. I think so. And that he had the effect. I think that Mr. Minister, like all Croatian citizens, should be grateful to the Ivica Racan Government, who launched the road construction of Croatia, has led to a higher level of road safety seen from the reduction in the fatalities in 2003 to 2004, when the number dropped to 100,000 from 16 to 14. If you, Mr. Minister, with your 2004 law, had made the same moment, you wouldn't have been 14 today but 12 fatalities per 100,000.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6579	And Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6580	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The correction of the incorrect allegations regarding the centres for safe driving was not only Zagreb but Rijeka also had conditions on Drobnik, and according to the existing law for the creation of these centres for safe driving was the Ministry of the Interior. So also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And about this going back in time, I think that's what nobody needs. In view of the past, you can learn, but the future always... from us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this abolition of road safety advice as the form of one of the broadest influences and the transport security initiative is a major failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6581	Thank you. We're going to individual debates now. First Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6582	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I am not very happy that the minister has finished his presentation, i.e. started further exposure with politicisation, and thus clearly always challenges the debate of the political replica correcting the wrong allegations. I think this is a topic that really requires a general national consensus. And whatever we're extremely pleased that a suggestion has been accepted and from the session of our committees to go in two readings. I will add another initiative, the minister has been shown to read the phonogram carefully and record things that will be useful. I think it's time to get ready, if you want a new law as soon as we pass this law. In a way that at national conference level we gather all those people who are important for increased road safety. It is as it has been said that they have been consulted, but I think that there is not enough consultation, that we should all sit down more seriously, because this is a problem and present but also the future and Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Construction and that I do not list the entire dipanson of government institutions and ministries as well as those institutions that are professionally involved. When it comes to this law, I'm actually back between the two sides of those who feel that the penalties are rigorous and that's where I agree. And I told the board that it looked more like it was written by Minister Schuker. And those who think they're too small. Why? Because even as an experienced man and given the number of years spent behind the wheel, and I have 42 years of driving training, I can say the following. There's too little punishment for overruns in Uck's tunnel. It's my experience by blocking. Too little punishment for every driver was he a parent or not who drives a small child without an adequate seat especially in the first seat in the mother’s lap on a cockpit or on a board on which the device and criteria are located. At a speed of 60 km, that child is a missile. It's flying through the glass. Such a ride is prepping for murder. Such a ride involves even more rigorous punishment than any intended. I am an opponent of the interceptor in the way former Minister Kirin introduced the traffic policy of the Croatian police. First of all, because these cop drivers are gonna get PTSD. It's one thing to drive 180 or 200 km when you choose it, and the other is to follow someone and try to catch them with 180 or 200 km/h when you don't know if they're going to turn, whether they're going to break his tire or yours, and that these guys are coming with sweaty hands, sweaty bodies and foreheads, in the stress of doing the task. But at the same time, if that's what thousands of drivers are driving by talking on their cell phones. The last of our sessions I will return from the meeting of the Parliament at seven o'clock and we have finished something from the beginning of Ilica in the square of the Republic and all those institutions to the Sub-Sidden Tunnel one young mother talked with two children constantly I tried so hard to be in front of her that in the mirror I can monitor she did not interrupt the conversation in the traffic jam of the city of Zagreb for which we all know what was going on and how it is. I agree that the initial penalties for certain violations should be reduced, but given the announced and envisaged adoption of this number, I think that the personal number of citizens is creating good assumptions by importing information systems, that police also have records of spot and good about those who are repeaters and that the level of punishment grows whether arithmetical for easier and geometrical for more serious forms of violations. Second. About what's not good, but it's not good so far in all the laws at all. Laws are written the way they were written at a time when we had very few vehicles, few drivers. The time has come to change the way and to separate the Transport Safety Act from some technical details that are related to circular crossings, for technical conditions, for traffic safety devices and similar devices. That it is good in the HITROREZ system to use one political form, but to compare some things where overlaps or conflicts of interest occur and that means not to take sanctions between different inspections, road traffic inspections and police. In this respect, I think that it is also related to technical conditions on the road that this is significant, it would be a significant paper and a significant improvement, especially as I stress these are laws that require spot work and change. Not every four or eight years, but actually spot-on. I'll say next. We had an interest, the minister is not here at the moment, but Mr. Franic and the advisors will record, Centres for safe driving. Interested investors came to us when we started talking about the Safety Driving Centres. And certainly should be given in the programmes an indication of what these are objectives in which time period and that we will then find common interest with different and investors. I'm not talking about a public-private partnership because it's already become a bit of a declaration. I'm talking about young drivers. It's a good thing we lifted the restraining order. She was bad, I'm not talking about those who drink and spend nights in bars. I'm talking about those who serve and spend nights in bars, that waiters, hotel cooks who are younger than 24 years old couldn't get back to their personal car from work. Unfortunately, we in the debates and politicians often forget that there are those who work while we have fun. And yet another of the important things that I think should be emphasized and that it should be, is related to the division of these areas of activity and new laws. You in Germany every dowry on a private car, tuners popular with young people called. The police come to the parking lot, measure the factory height of your Golf and find that it's four inches lower than the standard. It takes off your plates, doesn't allow you any further transportation, because you've made a difference. You've installed a different steering wheel than the original. If you do not have a tif tag removed from you, your vehicle is taken away until a technical examination is carried out. We have young drivers doing this. I'm not against it. However, I support the Center for Safe Driving so that such vehicles can try to learn how to drive. But at the same time, a technical and proper vehicle that respects standards. And I will end up with an anecdote about financial and material opportunities when it comes to penalties. In that black time of socialism when there were many bicycles, few cars and those militiamen were frozen in Bedekovčina when the working class was leaving at 10 o'clock at night from work mass, and there was a "light in traffic" action. Every other bike didn't have lights. It was fined, but the police had social sensitivity regardless of the law, so the first question was, do you have a pump? You don't. If you don't, he took off his fan and said, "Now push home." And if he has a pump, then he left the fan at his place. It doesn't always have to be more effective than warning, and I also support writing, and sometimes even a modest view means more to serious, adult people. The punishment is greater if a policeman looks at you uglyly and says: “Do you, too, son? ” than to punish you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6583	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6584	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, colleagues and colleagues. Any law aimed at improving the safety of Croatian citizens should be supported, provided that the solutions under that law are the ones we believe will lead to greater security on our roads. When we look at this proposal that we received today, or at this session, on the benches, in its statistical data we see that in the past four years the number of people who have died has been on a constant rise, though small but is. I think that the argument given in the bill that we have a larger number of vehicles, a greater number of drivers can be logical at first sight and that this increase is next, but we also have to consider that in the last 7-8 years we have invested a lot in the roads, primarily on highways, and that citizens through borrowing in Croatian banks have invested a lot in their rolling stock. So much has been improved, technical preconditions have improved for safer road rides. In turn, the number of people killed and injured on Croatian roads should have been much less per se. It should also be pointed out that in the number of people killed in the 100 thousand inhabitants, we are badly positioned in the circle of the countries we want to compare with. The minister mentioned here that we are in the ranks of some European countries, but I would say that if we look at the first Slovenian neighbours, they have even two fatalities less than 100,000 people, without comparing ourselves with countries such as Germany, Finland, etc. where they died five, six means twice as much as we do. I don't think the previous law and the former government has done much, and I hope that the new government and the new law that we have for the first time in our reading today will be more successful. I'm also saying that that famous 0.0 promo rate so persistently defended by Prime Minister Sanader has not produced any results on the safety of Croatian citizens. The death and death toll are on the rise. The number of violations that occurred up to a rate of 0.0 to 0.5 is identical and accounts for about 7.5% at the same level over the last four years. I am sure, on the other hand, that the economic effect caused by this measure is great, because we are still a country counting on more significant revenues from tourism and agriculture. Many winemakers, some of them and I personally know, took credit to plant new vineyards in 2003, and then they couldn't sell wine because this rate had a significant impact on the consumption of wine in the last four years. That's why I don't think it's a good policy led by the HDZ in this sense. Inconceivables both in a way and in a way, as many Croatian parties pointed to the ineffectiveness of this proposal and the great economic damage that we suffer because of it. And now, miraculously, the prime minister has regained consciousness probably driven by coalition partners, so he abolishes the measure, but does not acknowledge its failure but continues to argue that the measure was necessary. It is a policy of experimentation and the spite of HDZ, as I said, many of which were damaged, and the safety of Croatian citizens was nothing greater. This way, I would also like to congratulate the HDZ coalition partners, if they were able to convince HDZ after their insignificant ZERP topics, a referendum on NATO in one of its pre-election promises. On the other hand, three are basic tools that we can use to raise road safety. The first is to raise technical conditions on roads and on all road users, through quality control of both roads and cars. The second is to educate Croatian citizens through better quality driving schools, safe driving centres, but continuous actions towards all citizens because they all participate in traffic and not just drivers. And only at the end of the repressive measures that we prescribe by law to punish those who are in violation. Unfortunately, I have a feeling that this law has thrown its weight right at this third point and significantly increases only penalties and does not raise enough standards in technical order and education. What will we achieve with such a great increase in punishment? A colleague of Cain's used to compare that the penalties in Croatia, or in this bill, are even bigger than in Germany. I think it's one of the most important road safety factors in traffic, but are we going to achieve that security with the fines of 15 thousand kuna? Since the fines of 15 thousand kuna are really too great for me, I can see soon that Croatian citizens will not have the money to pay these fines, ads in daily newspapers, Croatian banks will start offering loans so that you can pay penalties for a violation under this law. Are we thinking that when someone commits the first such offence, they should pay a fine of six months' wages? Perhaps you should, perhaps not, but I would rather the ministry and all the responsible influence Croatian citizens educationally so that only if it does not act to punish them more significantly. I must remind you, as I said, 15 thousand kuna is the penalty of 6 average salaries of one worker. On the other hand, I think that the law should make greater differences with those who are tirelessly committing offenses, sitting drunk at the wheel, driving constantly too fast and endangering all those involved in traffic. Every day we witness a large number of accidents caused by these people, and I would call them repeaters in violations, and I don't think we should have understanding of them and my proposal and the amendment that I'm going to make to this law is that if someone repeats the offence three or more times automatically, while losing his driver's license, there's a unconditional prison sentence. I think we're all sick of cases where in the media we're witnessing tragedies where the causes are in irresponsible people who already have deeper files behind them. And in the end, I would touch on the problem in which we Croats are obviously masters, which is that after we commit an offence, we manage to avoid paying for it. I personally know a lot of people who have filed complaints about their violation and these complaints, of course, have gone out of date because of such a law. We may have taken a step forward in a new draft of the Code of Infractions where the statute of limitations has been moved to three years, but I think I will also give such an amendment to this law, if a citizen pays a violation within 8 days, it should be possible to pay it in just a 50% amount. In this way, they would increase the efficiency of the charge of the offenses and, on the other hand, relieve the part of the courts. Finally, I ask you to fix this law on the basis of the debate that is being held here, because I think it is an important topic that decides daily on the fates of many people. I want the next time we discuss this issue, the number of people killed on Croatian roads instead of 14 per 100 thousand residents on average in one Germany or Finland means 5 or 6 and then I will also be congratulated by the minister, as well as representatives of the ministry and admit that this law has brought something useful to Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6585	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said the planned introduction of 0.0 did not yield results. It's completely incorrect. Just one example. In 2003, 701 were killed in car accidents. As early as the following year 2004, so in the year of application of the 0.0 Act, it was reduced to 608. 2005 to 597. So it's quite clear that this measure has yielded results. As for the winemaker, I know winemakers who make quality, top quality wines. None of them had a problem with the placement of their wines. Moreover, they met only one small number of percentages of demand. And a third. Croatian citizens don't pay the fines. This isn't taxing. Penalties are for those who break the law, who put themselves and other road users at risk. So it's not about any general introduction of any tax. It is quite clear that it is punishment for what has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6587	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6588	Mr. President! I have to thank my colleague Maras for the congratulations he's given us, because it's over 0.0. But I also have to correct his inaccuracies, because he estimated that for us there were non-essential subjects like ZERP. It seems to me that counterpart Maras forgot that he, along with his party, voted for the abolition of ZERP, and the Croatian Peasants' Party was the only one in this House at the stand that ZERP should remain in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6589	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps it would be good if, in public, it did not turn out that when we talk about this topic, we would talk about tourism, or wine, or winemakers. Let's remember what this law is talking about. So this is one of the few laws that directly or indirectly treats all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so 4 and a half million of them. 2 million who drive cars and others as road users, from the youngest to the oldest. This law also deals in a certain way with the distribution and redistribution of a large part of social wealth. If you take the paper and start counting, you'll see that it's about tens, let's not go too far as billions of kunas. In fact, in a certain way this law defines the very large and very important interests of all those involved in transport in any way, in creating the conditions of that traffic. And unfortunately, this law applies to hundreds of people killed at year level, to a large number of people with disabilities, etc. So, very important matter and very important matter. And that's Mr. Minister why we think that no matter what effort you've made in preparation and debate, not the public around this law that it's a little time and not enough. At least we have a chance to go in two readings. Something about old law. The dilemma about whether the old law is good, isn't it good, whether it's won the successes or not? I'm not coming back, say, before 2000, what are the results and what was the traffic situation? But I also have to say that the results and effects of some measure, especially this type of measure, cannot be observed at a level of one year or two days. But when you look at the effects, then you have to keep in mind what's called. "Halo" or direct effect. I guarantee you that in the first months, this law that we are now passing, or that will take effect, will have certain results. But I'm not sure that trend will continue. So, this popular law, the 0.0 tourism law, has not solved anything for me. I cannot accept the argument when you from the ministry defend the results of this current law say, yes, but the number of traffic participants has increased. With this logic, we will never get to those desired 10 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in Croatia, because in Croatia there will always be a trend in increasing traffickers. I can now provide you with a series of data from European countries that have growth in cars and road users year by year, but also have a reduction in the number of deaths. Now a few words about the new law. I have to admit, I don't see anything new in the new law. This law represents in a certain way the continuity of the legislative activity on this plan. And I think there's a mistake. We all have to ask ourselves seriously how much is this type of law and this structured law on the basis of European laws and European solutions? It's a good part, but it's not a good part. I'll try to explain it briefly. So I said in the introduction, or at the beginning, what kind of diaphasic interest and questions does this law treat? Here you go. I think that, not to forget one very important fact. In recent years, and all these years, when this law was passed, there has been one tendency around its implementation, and this is the tendency that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is increasingly taking power over itself, so I don't know in 2004 they got kicked out of auto school, or the Ministry of Science, Education, etc. So in one part, the Department of Transport got kicked out. Now in this law you have the same tendencies. So, de facto you have that the Home Office is entirely responsible for the entire body of this problem and this question. It's inadmissible to me for a simple reason, because the ministry is writing a law, so it proposes it. The Ministry is implementing it and the ministry is reporting on the results of the bill. Therefore, the experience of European countries has shown that in situations where this problem is within the Ministry of Transport, results are much better than where it is within the Ministry of Interior that this criminal part of this law must implement. The idea of thinking that this issue that is now contained in one law is put into three laws, so the law that regulates technical and other conditions of traffic, because actually these laws could be called the Transport Conditions Act. Because it's not just security. So there's the whole diaphasic question. And normally I would certainly introduce the Ministry of Knowledge, Science and Education and Education, as it is not already called, in this sense education. In fact, education from small legs to passing a driving test and what is said throughout life for those who do not respect traffic and traffic regulations should be educated. What is also proposed by this law, and for me it may be the most controversial and unacceptable, is that a large space was left to the minister to regulate it by the rules. We had an example from 2004, in fact, that this law could have produced even greater results and it did not give them because these rules were not adopted or if they were not adopted. I mentioned billions of dollars. I mentioned great interests. I think it's inadmissible that these billions and these interests are regulated by the discretionary rights of the minister. That's a very serious question. I think we should at least give government level here, so let's say some issues that still decide on some issues, that the government should be held accountable, so not by regulation, but by regulation. In this way, we will reduce suspicion of possible abuses, corruption, etc. Another matter of punishment, one question of the Minister for you. I would ask you to answer me since this law is essential to the Law on Infringements which, as well as the seas, my question is if, and according to my information, this could happen, the Criminal Law falls on the Constitutional Court just these provisions regarding the manner of punishment... etc. What's going to happen to this law? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because that means that when we get that empty space in terms of us, we won't be able to apply this law. It's a very important question to me because it's actually going to open up a series of questions. One more thing. So I'm not going to go in now because two readings are in a certain definition situation. It was about a young driver. I'm not going to get into how the moped is defined, how the moper, etc., that's going to be the time. However, about the prevention of two sentences, my time is running out. I think exactly what some of my colleagues have pointed out is the issue of prevention being treated insufficiently by this law. I think we should insist more on that. I have a proposal and I will try to write and deliver it on behalf of the SDP club. Since we have this National Road Safety Programme, which I hold a very significant mechanism and a very important space for preventive action, and according to my assessment and assessment of some of my colleagues, it actually seems to us that it is not used properly or used properly. Our proposal, or mine, will be in this direction, that, in fact, since we in the Assembly are discussing any number of less important or more significant topics, that we are actually adopting a national programme in this House and listening to its report because I think that the number of people killed and the number of those involved in traffic deserves such importance. In this way we will make both politics and this Parliament responsible for the creation and participation of this prevention. So we're just going to give it weight. Because exactly what the law showed in 2004 and I think it will certainly show this in 2008 and I was then saying repressive measures, exclusively repressive measures have never produced results and will hardly produce results. They can help but need to be followed by a series of other measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6591	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6592	Thank you, Mr. President. There's one thing that's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6593	Excuse me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6594	Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6595	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6596	There's one thing that's kind of absurd here. In fact, the promoter is constantly talking about positive statistics, referring to statistics that we should be satisfied with. At the same time, Croatia's transport strategy says our goal, that it should be our goal below 10 dead per thousand people, to 100,000 inhabitants. So now on one side we have 14 dead somewhere on 100,000 people, our goal is to be below 10, the goal is not to achieve but we are satisfied with statistics, trends, etc. But we can't reach that goal. It seems to me, therefore, that statistics can be used in this and that way instrumentalized to support something and in fact avoid saying that the goal cannot be achieved. The goal of the Croatian strategy, not the Chinese strategy. The ultimate score would be 5 to 6 dead on 100,000 inhabitants. That's one thing. And the other thing, she's always boasting about that 0 measure, but if it's so good, then I have to ask you, even though we're about to end it, so why do you stop when it's so genius? I mean, it's the same contradictory thing. Obviously, there were a lot of important reasons that led you to end it and here you heard stories about ZERP even though it had nothing to do with this but I would just remind the SDP didn't vote to abolish the ZERP or is a partner to those in the government who did. That reminds me of "One steals, the other holds... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6597	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6598	It reminds me of "One steals another... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6599	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6600	I'm not a thief, I'm just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6601	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6602	Yes, my colleague Jurjevic noticed well. Unfortunately, the government's goal will not be met, which they wrote in their action plan, which is that in a year and a half we come to the 10 dead on the 100,000 inhabitants, it's now clear. But I think statistics, Mr. Jurovic, and they don't have to be so controversial, but I don't want to go into politicizing, so actually, the whole of the statistics is built on the fact that there were more deaths in some other government's time than now, so we're now as successful as if the government is sitting behind the wheel and killing citizens or real road accidents. Therefore, if we do not need to pollomise anywhere in the way of politicizing this story it is actually this space because I believe that we are all in the interest of Croatia meeting its goal, which we now unfortunately know will not meet. And I believe that, one of my colleagues said that the issue of agreements on this law would actually be very significant but I think it will be difficult to come to it for a simple reason, because the profession, professional associations, actually none of them gave a positive opinion about the law. I can explain that to the written ones they've been talking to. And also fellow Jurjevic yesterday or the day before yesterday on the board was part of those associations and they made a series of objections to the law and expressed their dissatisfaction, so I don't believe there will be an agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6603	Thank you. Representative for the Proposer, respected Interior Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So as not to be misread, one can also listen to the phonogram of the session. The government doesn't express satisfaction with the death toll, no one said. Read the session tone carefully. The fact is that the trend, the trend is downward and it can be somewhat encouraged. And one of the dead is terrifying, the value of human life is invaluable. So I never said on behalf of the government that the government was satisfied with the situation. Why? Because the conditions have been met, which, whatever you think of it, is reflected by a certain trend. The law has made a positive move, it's not questionable. The law brought in a lot of drivers, installed one consciousness, I don't want to drive a motor vehicle if I've had a drink. This does not mean that it was a law against winemakers, against brewers, or against consumption, but under certain conditions. Now, statistics say that the provision in this section can be tempered, so we'll monitor the situation as we always follow it. I don't know why we're already making estimates now that we won't meet the national programme's target until 2010. The goal was also in the mandate of the previous government of 10 people killed to 100,000, and since the 15 deaths of 2000, this went to 15.8 in 2003. I would not now speak and take firm views two years before the deadline of the national programme expires that this goal will not be met. We've passed the law, we have to decide whether we are in favour of fulfilling this part of the national programme as a national goal, and on the other hand we speak in parallel from... This law does not enter into prison facilities in the Republic of Croatia, it is not the subject of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law is a synergy of the action of all elements, this is, it is already now, the safety of road traffic is subject to at least three laws. You have the Law on public roads which are also a road safety factor that regulates technical, technical conditions and technical characteristics of roads. He's here, there's more ministries. In Article 3., the programme of education and training, the Ministry of Science, is tasked by this law to design a programme for the school and preschool age. So the early introduction into the rules. You have a programme of education that will be passed under this law by the Ministry of Education, tasked with education, with the agreement of the Ministry of Transport's Ministry, so several ministries are involved. I think this law, this law significantly improves the situation, in this law should be believed, dragon penalties are not dragon penalties. Is the Dragon Penalty at all measurable, can we talk about the Dragon Penalties by comparing with the previous law that had provisions on it seems to me somewhere around 30 violations that the penalty was from 1000 to 50,000 kuna, from 2000 to 50,000 as the maximum penalty, from 3000 to 50,000 kuna, no one at that time spoke of the Dragon Penalties and was left with the possibility to impose such penalties. This law has reduced to 5 to 15 thousand kunas, therefore we cannot talk about dragon penalties in the context of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6605	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6606	So I'm correcting an incorrect quote about a positive trend. Unlike the minister, I don't watch the beginning of 2004. I'll read you that information from the Home Office. So, 2005. 597 dead, 2006. 614, 2007. 619. Trend is growing. Also in the 08th we will have this continuation of the trend unfortunately towards growth. About... Yeah, in the '90s, what's 98, what's 97, so are we gonna talk like that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'm just trying to call the real thing a real name. Now I'm not sure you're happy with the death toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6607	Thank you. I'd pray we don't discuss it that way. It's about the severe tragedies of those who, please, have consideration for the families who lost their loved ones. Please! Let's move on. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When this law was last held at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and memory serves me well, some would say memory memory, I remember the debate of fellow Jarnjak who then said but the people of us Zagorje 0.5 is in the air. I want to believe that even after this, the changes in the law and those 0.5 in the air in Zagorje, Međimurje is no longer a problem. But a month, two months after that, a song was sung in Međimurje, and still today it is often spinning, which said about this way that the wine flowed through Mura and Mura is the northern border of Croatia, you know, the place of clean water people would move to Međimurje to some white storks. After the abolition of this traffic alcohol prohibition, because I'm sure it will be accepted. Since yesterday, a new motto is also interesting and we heard it from the prime minister, it's important that people are fed up. I'd add, because now I can drink. And I'm not talking about the heights of punishment, I'm not talking about failures or possible better solutions, but I'd like to address primarily Mr. Minister and his associates with a few requests. Namely, a number of useful data on the number of accidents, badly injured, easily injured, comparisons to 100,000 drivers, residents, vehicles, and that's good. However, I believe that the great harm of the gentlemen is truly a great pity that you have not given the information where these accidents have been. So how many died on highways and how many on state, county, local and non-classified. How many accidents with severe consequences of death and severe or major material damage at intersections, traffic lights, circular flows, oculars and low-rises. Because from this data structure, we would see perhaps other problems which are roads, which are roads in Croatia where we have the biggest execution, where there is indeed the largest number of traffic accidents, especially with fatal consequences. I'm asking, Mr. Minister, can you structure this data on the number of accidents by the kind of roads on which it occurred, from status, highways, state, county, local? Why? Experts from the Faculty of Transport have been warning the Croatian public and us for years. They present information of warnings and evidence that it is wrong and that it is not good for road safety to go from the assumption that all drivers and drivers are responsible. In the context of the level of punishment, the increase in these penalties I read and read. Namely, I remind you, Mr. Minister, that just a few years ago, these experts, based on data on the type and number of accidents and their location on certain roads, found eight black spots where the largest number was, most often with the most difficult consequences, and that they were then proving that the designers when they were designing a road on the project saw it from a bird's perspective, not from the perspective of road users, drivers. Ways to solve the intersection, bypasses, side-to-side entrances to the main road should be observed and projected from one of the visions seen by the driver, a traffic participant, and not what it looks like on the draft, the floor. Only small corrections in signalling and with minor procedures whose value then did not exceed one million kunas in these 9 reconstructions the number of accidents in two years was reduced to those points by 80%. They continue to warn that Croatian roads, and the biggest money we invest in highways and state roads, and in the investment and regular maintenance of county and local roads is becoming less and less and less, and that the largest number of accidents we have there. And that with these minimum procedures in the form of signalling, setting and redesigning, therefore by a different approach at a large cost, we can greatly increase traffic safety. So I'd like to ask you to try to locate those new black spots and give them to us in an explanation for the second reading. You will also help in the debates about the level and distribution of fees, i.e. the taxes of road motor vehicles, and then we may get arguments that the County Road Administrations really need more money to get in order to maintain safety on the roads. I don't know if that's the way it's gonna be, but only when we get that data can we use it with that data. Examples they say, and you all know. The traffic signs are set, and what then when that traffic sign is in the treetops, in the bushes, behind the bushes, in the intersections where agricultural land enters only a crossroads and visibility is zero, where there is no obligation for the owner to perform averages to obtain transparency at intersections, bandages for safety purposes. When the marks on the knees work to be as cheap as they can in six months they'll be erased. And in the current law as well as in this, Mr. Minister, there are penalties for those in charge of maintenance, signalling and traffic security. We have data on the driver's punishment. Can you give us for a second reading of how many penalties were imposed on municipalities and cities for their roads, counties for their roads and state roads because the signalling was wrong, which was healed in weeds, shrubs, treetops, which was an untimely removal and recovery of averages, asphalting, concreteisation in any way invented by non-lude police officers but reserve officers as the simplest way. My colleague whispers, thank you for your help! In the simplest way of local attempt to reduce speed. And finally the crossing of the railway lines. Isn't that part of the data we're supposed to get? Mr. Minister, because it might be proof that we may have to force Croatian railways to increase the number of non-Andria crosses, but security ramps. And I suggest next. Let the authorities of the traffic police close every road they consider unsure of traffic without prior consent and intervention of the traffic inspector. Just by closing the road that he's reporting to the inspector, then he's still doing his part of the job, we'll get those responsible for maintenance and road safety to intervene urgently. Penalties that have been prevented, to be pronounced and to spend years passing. A traffic police intervention that any road that is not safe for traffic closures will be effective, as within at least 24 hours of municipalities or the city, the county or state will correct, react, remove shortcomings. There's no more efficient means. It's not about punishing. It's not about picking up money, it's about making the roads safe. And I'm done with the next one. Article 51. “The driver is guilty if the speed does not adapt to the characteristics and condition of the road.” So, if the road is not safe, correct, well marked, if the signs have grown around the bush, the driver is guilty. If so, and if there are characteristics and conditions on the roads that require drivers to adjust driving, let the traffic authorities put such roads out of use immediately. Have him report it to the inspector and continue to choose to edit without new employment. The new cost for the country is the most efficient measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6609	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague that better road marking and better maintenance and all that he said would be possible to avoid many accidents. But speaking of this famous 0.0 return to 0.5, I also want to present to the Croatian public once again accurate statistics because we had the opportunity to hear from a colleague who is no longer there, the former interior minister, a truly inappropriate assessment of the situation and comparison with what preceded the adoption of the law 0.0. So in no way did he refer to the fact that between 2000 and 2003, the number of people killed was up to 100,000, so it was 2003. 15.8 died in 100,000 inhabitants, and that today following the application of this provision is 14. However, this is significant compared to the number of inhabitants. What makes it even more clear is how much less the dead are, it's on the vehicle number. To 100,000 vehicles from the index of 46.8 and 42.5 2003, respectively, it was reduced to 31.7. So from 42.5 dead to 31.7. Of course it's about percentages, it's about people. And on 100,000 drivers, we also had a significant statistical record in 2003 of 35.7 deaths, today we have 29 on 100,000 drivers. So that's a significant, really significant reduction. These are concrete statistics. I can do it by age, we have a reduction trend, here in 2000 to 100 thousand drivers was 36.4. In 2003 we have, dropped a little to 35.7. 2007 to 29. So these are concrete data regarding the fact that this law has made all those sitting behind the wheel aware.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6611	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Matušić actually replicated with someone else, not with a flaw, not with a problem like this, Mura, water and storks were not about your replica when I made a little joke on the subject. But since you've already given me a chance to make another suggestion if I can get the minister out of town who was given to me this morning by a motorist from Rijeka. Those who aren't savages on the roads. The biggest problem cops have with motorists who wild speed from moving to red and taking down tiles so they can't be identified, license plates. And he says why do they do it? Compare the level of punishment if you go to red or wild 180 through the city with the height of punishment if you get caught without a tile. So far, the difference in punishment has been 1:3. It was three times cheaper for him to be savaged and caught without a tile than to have a tile and to be identified by who he was. I've been looking at a new solution now, and you've got the same mistake again. The penalty for wildling, driving through red, is an exaggeration of 2 to 5 grand. So 5 grand max. And for driving an unregistered vehicle, 2,000, and we'll take off the plates again, and you won't be able to identify them again, and you'll have it again. They help us which engines we drive because we are different from these, those penalties and sanctions must be even and not worth it. That's their proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6613	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6614	Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian Lesar, for a second reading as available to the Assembly library, the MUP publishes Bilten on road safety. Last published in 2006, it is ready for the press in 2007 until reading you will have the opportunity to either take a book or read all of this information on the Ministry's website that will provide you with answers to some of your questions about car accidents and one more detailed discussion. I agree it's not just a driver, it's also a road condition. There's a Law on Public Roads. Road traffic inspectors who are employees of the Ministry of Traffic Affairs oversee and issue measures. So it's all regulated. They're not the subject of this law. However, if a traffic accident is a consequence or causes a poor condition of the road then it can be, there is a fine for a legal person who manages, there is also a fine for a responsible person in a legal person. And just for the illustration, to act and in such cases I'll tell you an example, that 20 days ago we filed a criminal complaint against a responsible person in a legal person because the traffic situation caused a traffic accident which unfortunately had a serious consequence and in which case we act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6615	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6616	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Since this law is written in 12 chapters and as I have already heard a series of arguments as well as today, as well as those arguments relating to local self-government, for roads which are managed by local self-government and technical examinations, this debate would nevertheless be more dedicated to that part of the law relating to training candidates for drivers, so how to conduct education, because I think that part is also very important. And it's also important because training for a driver comes mostly when young people come, we see that the number of drivers is increasing, that there is a part of a young population that has already finished a high school, so it practically comes to training. I think it is very important to talk about this part of training, education, and that of the people doing the job. So this training, as we can see, is done by a unique teaching process and includes practically three items, the rules in question and the safety rules, then vehicle management as part of practice and first aid. The training of candidates, so they carry out auto schools, implement from the regulations of safety, vehicle management rules, and providing first aid, and it's okay because we had through, since I also worked at a traffic school, so there have been a number of changes on who has any jurisdiction. I think this law here is well written now. So training is carried out by auto-schools that will be in the ministry's register of competent and will therefore be under certain control. Auto-schools must meet the requirements of this law and sub-legislative acts, and the school register will also be conducted in the ministry responsible for internal affairs. Now the question here is also teachers themselves, let's say instructors and teachers. I think it's also written that they should have at least the first degree as they say now, or the Transport College of the first degree, so they have to have a certain practice. But maybe here's my proposal, I know when it's being conducted, so training drivers not only in auto schools, but also in schools that did this for road traffic drivers for professionals, so there was another addition that they had to have one pedagogical exam, a pedagogical professional exam. And we couldn't even have it in schools then and get it checked out if it wasn't there. It's very important that one who gets these people, people who already have some kind of education and that especially this young generation, and she has some problems, we've heard that with alcohol, because that question is very important to us, it's not just about what we're talking about wineries. It's really about young people, and as we can see, there's the largest number of these tragedies going on with those extreme consequences. Of course, the conditions that are written here also meet the requirements of this exercise. So schools really need to be checked out. They must have quality teaching tools and help. They must have information equipment, especially for this subject of regulation. And they also have to be computerly connected which I think is very good, on this expert side. My observation or some suggestion also refers to this pedagogical part which is because someone has great expertise but it is necessary to know and communicate and influence if it can therefore be respected. So here we can talk about practically two learning models. Here we have a model where one teaches and the other questions, which I think is good and that it still doesn't matter when it's not the same one that teaches and the one that, that same teacher, is also an interrogator. I also see what I see as a positive good in the law as regards an interrogator as regards professional training. It's about the profession. That's good for me. And that's exactly what he did, because we had before and some others where the law allowed it to be possible for teachers. So, as far as the headmaster is concerned, so is the interrogator. Otherwise, I can conduct it in high school with a committee proposed by the minister, and I think it's totally fine. And another small part that is related to these younger drivers, and it also speaks of alcohol itself, and yet it should be pointed out in us that alcohol abuse is quite large, or it is really in younger people and it is fatal, besides what alcohol brings to the family itself. But in young people, the risks of accidents in traffic are high, we stress that. That part of alcohol is related to traffic and others that are followed and happening in the families themselves. According to data from alcohol consumption in Croatia, it was 12.3 lists per capita, which means that we are 10th in the countries of the European Union to which we compare. The consequences of the use of alcohol in young people are very negative and of course it is particularly dangerous to sit behind the wheel in an alcoholic state and that is where the law has given me good suggestions. And that is why I support this law, and I think it should be passed because it solves a number of articles that have already been discussed here, but it will also solve other issues. And in the end, you'd just warn when there's talk of a lot of dragon punishments that you know me anyway when we cross the border and come to Slovenia, then we act differently because there can stop us and send us to a misdemeanor court the second day. Therefore, we immediately stop at the ball or reduce the pressure on the gas slipper. Therefore, these proposals should also be considered in this context. And here, that would end your exposure. I support this law so that it can be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6617	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6618	Thank you very much. He would correct two false allegations of a respected colleague. At one point, he exudes the problem of young people and alcohol, or elaborates, that young people in Croatia have a problem with alcohol. I think it's a dangerous thesis after all. Perhaps if he had said some young but generalising that young people have a problem with alcohol in Croatia, I think it's too dangerous. I am correcting another incorrect assumption, which is that we are acting in one way in Slovenia and in one way in Croatia because the police will stop us there. That's not the problem with a colleague. And that's an incorrect allegation. We're being stopped by the police in Croatia. But we know that in Slovenia we will pay the fine, and in Croatia we know that we will not sooner than we will, because only 30% of those who have stopped the fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6619	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, it is a great shame that, in his second step after the club presentation, the minister has corrupted the general impression of the debate. Attacking the coalition government, saying that it had no power to amend this law and repair the state of transport, it banished and unfortunately cheaply politicized the matter. Road safety is not an ideological issue and is not a party issue. It's a matter of responsibility for social reality. It was responsible for the Racan coalition government to launch the construction of the highway system and end construction and to reduce the number of road deaths. The death toll has been reduced from 16 to 14. If the amendments to this law lead to the goal of having 10 or less deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in 2010, I will commend this government and give it recognition because this will mean that the amendments to this law have reached a purpose. What does this law bring? He has two essential characteristics. The zero-promising provision is lifted and penalties are increased. First of all, we're talking about this zero-prompt provision. When it was brought, it was an example of how politics rise above the waist. The waist was already saying that it doesn't make any sense, politics passed the profession. The all-powerful prime minister liked to introduce a zero-promise provision. Now that that provision is lifted, it is abolished for political reasons again. It was scary for me to hear what my colleague Frano Matušić was saying here. He claimed here by statistical indications that it was this provision of zero prominence that reduced the number of road deaths by 2 to 100 thousand inhabitants. If so, if the Government truly believes that the provision has reduced the number of people killed by 2 to 100,000 people, then it is frightening that those convinced of the effectiveness of these provisions are changing it today at the request of their coalition partner, HSS. Because what does that mean? This means that holding power with a coalition partner is more important than 2 lives per 100,000 inhabitants. That's terrible. Comrade Matušić, that's terrible. The fact is, of course, it has nothing to do with this zero-prompt provision. The number of deaths decreased because the highway was open, so traffic safety increased. They don't drive on a master's road anymore. They drive on a safe highway. But, well, you don't have to admit it because it was done by Racan's government. But convinced that this pointless provision of zero prominence saved two lives, you're changing it now. What's the traffic problem? First, a large number of young people killed on the roads, 40% of those killed are young. Their number of accidents is 30 percent too fast, with alcohol again 30 percent. And other major problems in Croatia are relapsers, let's call them reckless drivers. There's twenty criminal charges, savagery, violence on the road, driving through the city 180 an hour, driving through the red for a bet, driving without a driver's license, driving with a stolen driver, driving a drunk dead, and twenty times he gets caught in a violation like that, and he doesn't care, he repeats the deed. What solutions the law offers have already been said, an increase in penalties. Now, when you increase your sentence, there's cash and prisons. Let's see what happens first with fines. It was heard here in the debate and penalties are too high, and penalties are too low for some violations, etc. I wouldn't say punishments are either too high or too low. They can't be too high. Why? Well, no one should pay them. It's enough not to commit a misdemeanor, so you won't have to pay any fine. That's enough. But punishment must be neither high nor low, it doesn't matter. They must be smart or let's call them purposeful, they must achieve purpose. I think the fines of young drivers are completely pointless. Why? Well, they don't pay for them first, that's what parents pay for. He has no income, and he doesn't care how much the punishment is; and Daddy will pay for it anyway, when he has given him an expensive car to drive, and that he will also pay the penalty with him in the city, which is two thousand kuna. And I think for this category of drivers, a proper punishment would be to retake the driver's exam, even for a minor offense. So let him go to the exam until he learns. In this way he would become a conscientious driver repeating the driving test over and over again. Because look, it's a pain in the ass, it's not only costing four thousand kunas, you have to go to those lectures, you have to take the exam, you can even imagine, and then again. That would be a fine for them, not a fine. Then in the case of fines at the height, think about it being a percentage of the receipt. Well, it's not the same thing as 500 kuna to someone who has 2,000 kunas or someone who owns a factory, they don't even know how much. So what is two thousand kunas to him, or five thousand kunas, and he pays it with a smile. And think about introducing, that was one smart proposal here, a progressive increase in the number of violations, so that his first sentence would be a warning, don't do it again, then 100 kuna, then 500 kuna, and then a thousand. So let's see who's more persistent, state or him. I am convinced that this progressive punishment would affect the driver's conscience. In prison terms, I'd say there are well-established criteria, it's alcohol above 1.5%, driving without a driver's license, driving with a taken-off driver's license, and it means it's not an accident, it's not a man who got carried away, so it's a bit faster, it's a dirty ride, which means I don't care what the restriction says, I drive as much as it suits me. I think you should also introduce educational punishments, lectures, mandatory lectures, courses. So we take away his driver's license until he hears that course. That takes five days. Let him take a five-day course so when he gets confirmation that he's finished course goes to his police station and gets his driver's license back because that's the one sticker you know about unwitting drivers, now he has to go there, he has to bother with it. Recidivists or reckless drivers are a special problem. Look, they need to be off the road, it's a national interest, it can't be allowed. But if we have in customs law the possibility of taking away the means to execute the works of the car, so let's assume for these relapsers too, because he won't stop being savage. Well, it means nothing to him to punish him in a court of law. He's got to get his car taken away so he's got nothing to go wild with. It's the only measure. It's the only way we'll be able to protect innocent lives on the road from people like that. And finally a proposal. I like that proposal on multi-resor approach, Shime Luchin said something about it. We keep fixing this law with one logic and that logic is not right. Let's break it down into at least four segments, so that the M.P. takes care of security in a narrow sense where the assessment of success would not be the amount of fines charged in one police sector but to assess the police successfully as much as there are fewer car accidents in its area. Well, then, because let her do or wait or let her warn, let her do whatever she wants, but let's estimate that the police in one territory were successful when her number of accidents decreased. Well, they'll find ways to reduce it. The Ministry of Transport is concerned about the quality of the roads, about the signalling, the regularity of the vehicle, the Ministry of Education on Transport Culture, about introducing it into primary schools, in high school as a mandatory subject of driving tests, the Ministry of Health certainly on the assessment of psychophysical abilities required review. 'Cause be careful, we have a case. I don't know, someone gets PTSD, gets confirmation, but they can still drive the motor vehicle. And what if something pisses him off on the road?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6621	Comrade, finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6622	Here I go. What if something upsets him? So that's where the Health Department has to be. It's not the M.O.P. for that. So let's approach it multi-resorically, we'll certainly get better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6623	Thank you. We have two replicas and one correction. First is the replica of Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6624	Thank you very much. Mr. Track, let me remind you of another fact that 0.0 has no effect. For the simple reason, I talked about it four years ago. All countries with 0.0, and they also mentioned the minister as an argument that this is good, have the highest mortality in transport, i.e. the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in the European Union. As long as countries that have 0.8 have the slightest mortality in traffic. Therefore, there is no correlation with each other. Second. As for the height of the sentence, I actually think the height of the punishment, whether it's good or not, is it a false dilemma. The question is, does the one who committed the crime know he's going to have to pay any punishment? We have a situation in Croatia that a large number of those who commit a crime know that they will not have to pay for it, so they act that way. And so far we've had very high sentences, unfortunately they haven't charged. Look at the statistics on the misdemeanor courts, so you'll understand. In fact, you'll see that 30% of the only ones the police record guilty of committing a felony are paying the fines. Unfortunately these 30% are, these 30% fines are mostly penalties for wrong parking. And the fact that you have a situation that, for a quick drive or for alcohol, you don't actually pay the fines. And then we have the condition we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6625	Thank you. Mr. Stazic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6626	Comrade Lucino, it is quite clear that this 0,0-prompt provision has no use, no effect. That's not because you say it or I say it. That's what the profession says, and that's what the profession used to say when it was being introduced. She had already warned, don't do it, it won't have any effect on road safety, you'll have these side effects that you'll harm winemakers, wine producers, I don't know who not. This is about the responsibility of politics. First he listens to the profession without pretending to be smarter than the profession, just because politics, not to think, I'm chosen, so now I'm the smartest one. Because that's exactly what happened. And the second, second form of political responsibility, to be critical of itself and of its decisions and not to defend persistently what is wrong and to make up arguments. To say, we made a mistake, we wanted the best, we wanted the best, but, well, that didn't give the results, so now we're changing that. It's policy responsibility, everything else is politics. And everything else has nothing to do with responsible behavior. But watch out, in this law where human lives are concerned, where safety is concerned, that is where policy responsibility is specifically sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6627	Thank you. The second replica gave up. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6628	I thank Mr. President, it is terrible for someone to speak in such a cynical and sarcastic way and refer to statistics on the number of deaths in Croatia. It is incorrect that you said that the 0,0 provision did not affect the reduction. So what affected the reduction of the death to 100,000 vehicles moving from 2000 to 46.8 in 2003 to 42.5 in order to suddenly reach 31.7 today? And what else did it affect? It may be your tickets when you opened up the largest number of miles of new highways between 2003 and 2003 that number increased from 32.7 to 35.7 to 100,000 drivers. It's 29 today. What are you guys talking about? So sarcastic and cynical. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6629	Thank you. This is what I think, who's gonna be, whether someone's gonna be ashamed or not, it's his thing, but we don't need him on it, it's not, it's not right. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6630	Dear Mr. President, Article 209 of me. The Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, prevents me from answering Fran Matusic's questions that he has asked me, because he did not dare point out the replica but merely correcting the incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6631	He correctly corrected an incorrect quote. He correctly corrected the incorrect allegation because he presented data and percentages, the procedures of these car accidents and something like that, I don't know, in any case, he claims that what you said was true, but what he claims to be true, [[Intruder: He asked me questions!]] Well, according to that. [[Intruder: But he asked questions!]] In line with the tradition of this House so far, it has rightly corrected the incorrect allegations. [[Intruder: Questions He Asked!]] Therefore You did not correctly raise and explain why you raised this scoreboard on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder: If it's correct for you!.]] Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6632	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a traffic safety law on roads delivered to the Parliament by the Government, which will be adopted in a regular procedure and not by an urgent procedure, certainly that is good, since this law concerns certainly because we are all in a certain way involved in transport. A really wider debate is needed to achieve the fundamental objective of transport policy, which is the national road safety programme for 2006/2010. set up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is from the current 14 deaths to 100,000 inhabitants, to be reduced to below 10 deaths to 100,000 inhabitants by 2010. You should say although many here with it, it... that the current law has also made a positive move when it comes to the percentage of the victims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A team more if there's a steady increase in traffic, an increase in motor vehicles, a number of drivers. So let me remind you, only in 2007, the number of motor vehicles increased by over 100,000, the number of drivers by 45 grand. On the roads in the summer months traffic has increased over 18% and the increase in transit traffic throughout the year is also on the rise. If we remember that in 1990, the number of deaths was over 110 per 100,000, and the 29 deaths per 100,000 people, then this is a really big shift that places us in the number of deaths in traffic in the middle and largest group of European Union countries. Of course, we cannot be satisfied and we should always improve both the conditions and the legislation, because it is still far from the average of one Sweden, the Netherlands, which are below 5 people killed per 100,000. It is therefore necessary to bring this, and I hold this to be a very solid bill and why it should be passed. Some of the provisions of the applicable law are no longer applicable because of the non-compliance with the provisions of the new Criminal Law that entered into force in 2008. Infringement law amended the way in which protection measures are now laid down by the court, assessing the circumstances of each individual case, while the applicable Road Safety Act provides for mandatory application of safeguard measures for certain offences. In accordance with the transitional and final provisions of the Infringement Act, such provisions of the Road Safety Act cannot be applied. The legal nature of negative points, which according to the Code of Breaking, is also amended and ceases to be a protective measure, and becomes the legal consequence of the conviction. Under the provisions of the Infringement Act, it is possible to determine no more than three negative misdemeanor points, and so far it has been five. This bill also has preventive and repressive measures and that is good, because there is no solution to this problem without prevention. Particular attention should be paid to the legal regulation of the quality and modern model of training of candidates for drivers, and models of development of a satisfactory level of transport, the transport culture of Croatian society. Through mandatory programmes in pre-school and school institutions and thus, in the shortest time, proactively access an effective solution to the cause of this situation and the uncertainty on the roads. Prevention must also begin in auto-schools with the ability to drive and drive future drivers must be taught tolerance and tolerance in transport. However, this bill allows police officers to act more easily in sanctioning violations on the scene, and many violations will be able to be prosecuted in a hasty procedure by issuing mandatory infringements, which will significantly relieve the Criminal Courts, and above all, the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia. The law also provides for frequent infringements of the driver's license, and for the most serious violations that are in a causal and consequential relationship with accidents with the most severe consequences, a prison sentence is prescribed. Finally, this legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The bill should be supported to go to another reading and I hope that it will be adopted before the tourist season begins, that tourists who come can enjoy our food, in our quality wines because 0.0 is prominence or zero tolerance, yet I hold that it is intolerance and therefore I support this proposal to go to another reading. And I'll support it because it's a really great bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6633	Thank you. The first replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6634	My colleague, I have two remarks on your debate. The first is about reading statistics. Look, you can't exactly read statistics if she doesn't have all the parameters, if she doesn't have the bases. You're talking about good statistical indicators reducing the death to 100,000 people. But here, let's say, there's a lack of data on how many of these follow-up years are being tracked open miles of highways. So let's see how much that's affected. My second observation concerns your finding that the existing law has produced good results. No, it's not! So be careful, if it's why we're changing it if it's so good? He gave good results, he's great, and now we're going to change him. And what are we changing in it? We're just removing the zero prominence clause. Well, clearly, it wasn't right because of that provision. The saddest thing is that the justification for this change is not reason, but the political pressure of the HSS on its coalition partner. That was their request. It's in their coalition agreement. You know that in public. Thus, neither did the law produce good results. He needs to be changed. It is good to remove zero prominence, it is good because it has nothing to do with it and statistics should be read, and in order to read it at all, all parameters must be entered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6635	Answer Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6636	Well, fellow Stazic, I'm sure we won't argue about it. Statistics me and you will never see with the same eyes. I was saying something about tolerance today. So, listening to your debate where you say at one point that it's more important for us in the HDZ to be in the government than for us to be in traffic. That's terrible. This is about tolerance, and I call on you to make this House more tolerance for all those who look at us because I think this is a good bill that will certainly improve and make Croatian citizens safer on the roads in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6637	The replica of Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6638	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what statistics are all about, because let's say you can't read the statistics for the last three or four years the same as the statistics by 2003, at least in some parameters. Let's just say I'll only take one, colleague Rebic. It's a car accident number. You under the current law have had the possibility of a minor offense, collisions, scratches that you don't even call the police and that kind of accident isn't recorded and then you just have a situation that can be displayed, probably a much smaller number of accidents shown than what happened. Let's say that insurance companies are implemented, or their indicators would then have the exact information. And I agree with all those who spoke on the trail that we are all together on this proposal burdened with statistics. I think I'm saying again that we should all be in the best interest of trying to get as good a law as we can. So one accident, one lost life, all the statistics for the family, the environment, the middle of where that accident happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6639	Thank you. Answer Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6640	My colleague Lucin didn't really... /The speaker turned off, so back on./...that this year there was an increase in the number of motor vehicles by almost 100 grand. That there are 45 thousand new drivers. Can you deny that traffic in the summer months thanks to the improved tourist season has increased 18%. So we don't argue about it. I say that even the current law gave good results at the beginning, there was a fall in the dead on the roads, but right now we are changing this law because it does not give those expected results that should have been given because a new law has been passed, and I think that by 2010, we will certainly fix this statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6641	Replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6642	Thank you. Speaking of statistics, of course I agree with you that the law has produced excellent results. But once again to bring to the public what is extremely important, precisely statistical. In 2002, there were 627 deaths. In 2003, there was a jump to 701 dead. After the law was introduced, i.e. this provision 0.0 promila, the number of deaths from 701 fell to 608. Well, that's the best example where in a year you've had a significant growth between 2002 and 2003 and 2004, a reduction of almost 100 deaths in just one year. I think he's made quite a contribution to the law here. Or an even better indicator, taking into account the data that you have presented on an 18% increase in traffic or on increasing new drivers and new vehicles, etc. which is measured in hundreds of thousands. So in seven years, the number of vehicles increased by 550,000, and the number of drivers also to 330 thousand new drivers. So with this total traffic, we record the reduction of both the dead and the accidents and everything that actually meant one greater uncertainty, today means absolutely one road safety. And the other thing, it doesn't break the rule of 0.0. It remains in force for young drivers and professionals, which is extremely important. He remains in force for those drivers who will commit a violation. He remains in force for them. So only if the regular control determines the amount of alcohol up to 0.5 and you have not committed an offence is it tolerated only then, otherwise the provision remains in force and it is important that it remains in force because we will certainly continue the trend of the reduction of the dead on our roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6643	Replica, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6644	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Rebić can agree with you that statistics can be read in different ways, but logic cannot be eliminated. If the 0,0 prominence measure in the driver produced good effects and saved a certain number of lives on the roads, which is the logic that the measure is abolished. There is no reason for such logic and no response from the Government to such a proposal. I must repeat, under pressure from political coalition partners, the government has given way. It's the only thing we can conclude from this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6645	Answer Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6646	Thank you. So it's done again that we're going to statisticalally look at you from your angle and look staticly. So I'm talking about dynamics, about the increase in car numbers, the driver. And secondly, let me just say. Well, now a colleague has just quoted that 0.0 is not being abolished. I say that for all tourists who come to Croatia, it is great that zero tolerance is not really intolerance. 0.5 I welcome that, but 0.0 stays for all young drivers, stays for professional drivers and everything else, and I think all of this together should give one pain to make a great law like this before the tourist season. This would be good for both Croatia and tourism and many wine producers, and I don't think we should discuss this law with so much bile because it's a great proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6647	Thank you very much. Another MP will be given his word and we will have to postpone the debate for Tuesday, as there are a dozen more. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6648	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not gonna start with statistics and 35 and 29 is a big number. I wish there wasn't one dead at 100 grand. I think both SDP and HDZ can agree on that. So these numbers that were killed on Croatian roads are really big, and I think we're all in the best interest of making that number as small as possible. Something general about the law. I believe that these penalties are, in particular, inappropriate to the standard of living in Croatia, and I would agree here with some MPs who have suggested that they be progressive, i.e. for the first, second, third, and I do not know which infringement. Maybe no one said anything about a problem that could appear here, and that's possible corruption that will lead to an unpleasant position both a cop and a driver. Because if you take the average salary in Croatia and that minimum of 2.5 to 4 thousand kunas as well as the salary of a police officer, we've all been on occasion to see what happens when the police stop a driver in a misdemeanour. I think the question of the state of the roads in Croatia is particularly important. This is precisely what the problem may be, that the Road Safety Act cannot exclusively be the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior but also of the Ministry of Transport and of the Ministry of Education. I'll just remind you that the end from which I come almost every day, here I am sorry that there is no former mayor here, I would beg you President to die a little, there is no former Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County Branimir Glavas and neither Vice-President of Parliament Seks nor former Minister of Lužavac when they opened the Djakova bypass, unrelated to the three prices they spoke of. At this Djakovačka bypass, no intersection is lit, there is no light signalling and almost every other day or third day there are traffic accidents with the most tragic end. On the question of young drivers, I believe that this law may be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where all citizens are equal in rights and obligations. And perhaps for thinking about here's a young driver who drives Formula One, Louis Hamilton, he would indeed be in a privileged or sub-represented position under this law. And anyway, I think it's far better to drive a car than all of us together. I will return to training as one of the major problems of this law because there is no definition of auto school in this law, and it is used in the text of the law all the time. The content of the training program itself is prescribed by the MUP, and for children a bike ride is a basic prerequisite for the acquisition of this knowledge is prescribed by the Ministry of Education. Mr. President! Also, the teaching course of first aid can no longer or no longer be able to organise the auto-schools that have conducted this so far. I'll just remind you it's just training in auto-schools, a special boom has been since '78. Until '92. A year. The professional leader himself shall not train candidates for drivers from vehicle management. So the question is, what's the ban to explain? This is the part of training that is also one of the essential factors for road safety. I'd like you to give me some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6649	... [[The speaker is not understood, not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6650	And what may be most important is that a monopoly with the Croatian Autoclub is created throughout the driver's training system. Croatian Autoclub as an association of citizens. So I'm asking why no public tender has been opened for public authority or whether that legal obligation will ever be prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6651	Please give me a little more patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6652	And the question that is about the Croatian Autoclub as one of the major problems of the entire system is this, Croatian Autoclub or HAK is overseeing the work of auto-schools. And who is overseeing the Croatian Autoclub as an association of citizens? Instead of the conclusion, I also thank the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister for accepting the SDP's proposal that these go to another reading. I find it a major failure of this law that was abolished in 2004. The Road Safety Council as a form of the widest impact and the Transport Safety Initiative, because this basic national programme that operates within the MUP does not allow the full professional, financial supervisory influence of the civilian... If you're hungry, go outside. [[/The speaker doesn't understand, off.]] On roads there must be lasting care and obligations not only for traffic participants, especially drivers, but for all institutions in the system of state, school, car school, public communication funds, civil initiatives through civil society and others. I believe that this problem must be tied up, so only training drivers can no longer be under the authority of the MUP but under the Ministry of Education as is the case and there is this children training programme in primary schools I would say in an unconstitutional way. So the obligation would be in any case to multidisciplinaryly observe and include all three ministries. In any case, I will remind the Republic of Croatia only that the only country in the European Union in which road safety is located in the interior ministry. We aim for the European Union, we enter the European Union and only here in Croatia would that competence be under the MUP, which is illogical. And at the very end about these 0.0 proms. I don't think that provision is made for the reason that only tourists from 1.6 can confirm this to you by the Mayor of Dubrovnik, there is tourism all year round, so tourists in Croatia come all year long, not only 1.6. And this provision is not made for tourists to enjoy wines, but probably for us Croats, so he would suggest, given that both the European Union's liquids and that those 0.5 have passed through in some countries such as the UK and which has a long history of democracy there is 0.8. So, not wanting to prejudge, given that this is the first reading, I think that through a large number of amendments, this is exactly what this whole debate is about, and I hope that both the minister and this working group will adopt one large part of this debate anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6653	Thank you. Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6654	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I repeat once again, there is no lifting of the 0,0 provision as some parliamentary MPs have repeated. The norm is mitigated because conditions, road safety and the positive effects of the law have been met. I repeat, in the first six months of 2004, the number of deaths on Croatian roads compared to the same period in 2003 was 50 more. If the trend continued, Croatia would have suffered more than 800 deaths in 2004, and normally the government had to react that by using its powers and responsibilities, the parliament had reached a provision. The awareness of a large number of drivers about motor vehicle management and alcohol consumption has changed. This law is not the Winery Act, this law is not the Entrepreneurship Act, this law is the Road Safety Act, and in this context it needs to be read. Someone mentioned roads and highway casualties. It would be wrong to send the wrong picture if it didn't get hit on the highways, that there was no death on the highways. Last year, 2007. 161 people died on state roads, 57 of them on highways and on highways are fatal. The highways are a place where severe bodily injuries can be experienced. Therefore, this law should not be read in all other elements. It should basically be read as a law that will contribute to improving road safety by not limiting other options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6655	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please check to see if you've brought the keys as number one. Second, please establish the quorum and engage over the key. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this item of the agenda. The proposal for a road safety law, with the final bill going to break now, then we will continue on Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. because there are another dozen registered speakers here and now that we've established our presence. There are 84 MPs here, apparently there are far more. And I'm asking if all the MPs have the keys? If not, we will. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wish everyone a good morning. We're moving on with the session. You've got a clean agenda. We continue with the agenda point we broke off on Friday, which is the Road Safety Bill proposal. An individual debate is under way. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6657	Honorable President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. As far as this law is concerned, the applicable Road Safety Act has partially met the positive expectations for which it was adopted, i.e. the number of traffic accidents, especially those in which human lives have been lost, even if at first. But as our people, especially drivers, quickly reach every law, it is necessary to adapt the laws to time and space, so that the new law will correct the shortcomings of the existing one with its quality. Surely the most popular measure of the proposed law is the return to 0.5 prominence for those who will not violate any of the other provisions of the Road Safety Act. The measure will also be welcomed by the well-known tourists, who have never had milk after fish before. Although the promoter paid particular attention to young drivers under which it involves those 16 to 24 years of age, I believe that the concept of young drivers should not only be included but also particularly alerted to unexperienced drivers. It is precisely newly-roasted unexperienced drivers, regardless of age in transport, often create serious problems, and rarely they cause traffic accidents either with easier or more serious consequences. Therefore, in order to further reduce traffic accidents and to improve the training of future drivers, I would like to make the following proposals. First of all, I suggest that the legislator looks at the possibility that drivers up to two years of active driving are treated as young drivers, or I might even suggest maybe a new term to be introduced, to be driving trainees. Like I said, we're all in traffic for the good part, and we know what that experience, no matter what I said, causes a man to get his hair on his head sometimes. I also believe that auto-schools should adapt their teaching programmes to today's traffic pace at which we move daily, much more dynamic than that program that the auto-schools conducted 20, 30 or 32 years ago when I passed the driver's exam. It means that these programs should be slightly modernised and, in some ways, adapted to today's pace, which is quite different from this time that I mentioned. Then I think that the examination committees should be maybe I have the wrong perception or wrong, but far more professional and responsible for passing the driving exam, because today in traffic unfortunately there are all kinds of drivers even those who drive and even about driving culture don't have much knowledge or don't know anything and are driving how God does, if God wants to be accidentes, and if God doesn't let it go well. So I just think that we should see if these commissions are professional enough and responsible for this job that they do today especially when these people are put on the market. At the time when I took the driver's test, the examination committee was independent of the car school and was made up of a traffic militia at the time. I therefore believe that we should consider why we should not be present in the commissions today as representatives of the traffic police. I think they, with their experience, would be able to tell by their knowledge whether this person is willing to pass a driving test and that he can normally go on the market or not. When it comes to penalties for offenders, the proposed drastic penalties for traffic offences should be charged in such a way as to be sufficiently warning and to respect our social reality at the same time. It is rare for those who can easily pay fines for violations, and it does not often have to be serious offenses, but they are therefore high sentences, which can happen to each of us. Why do I say that? Today the car is not a luxury and those who think it's a car you don't have to drive to be a luxury, I think they're wrong. In the 21st century, a car is a normal civilizational need that serves every normal person that can live and function normally. And finally, I want to welcome the police's efforts in all actions that have a significant impact on the reduction of the number of traffic accidents and the number of deaths, and I want you to achieve this plan by 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6658	Thank you very much. I shall inform the representatives, members of the Committee on Economy, that the meeting of the Committee will be held at 13:30 in the "Janko Draskovic" Hall 202, so on II. Katu, chairman of the Committee Dragan Kovacevic. So at 13.30 p.m., the Committee on the Economy, so that we can even come up with some agenda points. I warn the clubs to secure it. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Zivko Nenadić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6659	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In any case, I welcome these amendments to the road safety law because they really are one significant improvement. This law in public, and here among us is usually seen through 0.0 and as we say, I don't think it's the most important thing here, and especially not the only thing in these changes. Because here, these changes and are in line with the breaking law, are redefine or a new definition of "young driver", which is totally acceptable to me than before. Removing this from 23 to 5 a.m. for young drivers that they can't drive by themselves etc., it also proved to be not good, and what turns out to be not good - it's good to change. They have certain improvements for disabled people. And this use of light in the summer reckoning of time. So, there's a lot of improvements. The truth and punishment are, new penalties are very high, but we are where we are, without punishment there is no order. Well, I support that, too. I'd just say two three copies of the people who came to me with their story, if they have enough grounds the ministry will consider, if they don't, of course, forget. The first is that this Association of Croatian road carriers has sent them, related to overcoming the permitted axle load of so-called axle. The red plates outside, but I see that they, that they have a little problem with that, that they stop them more, but I see that the memo was sent to you, so then I don't have the need, you already have it, I don't need to talk about it. I'd rather say two things because they came to me as a representative from Split independent of each other, one of them owns a car school, and the other one, I'm going to bring out his "problem", maybe he's not. The owner of the car school says it's legal three years ago that we actually said here for four years that owners have to have a higher school. He had a high school but a three-year-old when he opened his car. Three-year-old and then first he had to finish his four-year-old, and then he didn't get to finish high school. He says there are those, as he says six to seven, I don't know if it's possible to extend a year like that for two days. Another example where I was approached by an interrogator. She says it was also the basis of the 2004 law that he enrolled a higher school, but legal, legal orientation, and now a high school of traffic orientation is required from the interrogators. Now, he's over 50 and says there are 10 to 15 cases in Croatia. If there isn't one I don't know and I can't or can't check it out. So, the long-standing interrogator has over 50 years of life, and over 20 of this internship and now says if he can say that, I am for it, if everyone else has a tall one, let them have, but maybe they can make an exception that such people end up being tall as the one they have higher, that if he's a legal orientation to end a high legal orientation, because now he's over 50 years old, he has to re-enter the university to do what he's doing for over 20 years. Or it may be possible to make an exception for such people if they are said to be 10 to 15 that if they are over 50 years old and over 20 years of probation can such an exception be made. Here's me, with all the praises, I've brought up these two cases that came to me, and here's to consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6660	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6661	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The national road safety programme for 2006 to 2010 outlined an ambitious target of 10 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in 2010. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to further improve the state of transport security and thus reduce the number of victims on our roads. I am convinced that this improvement will result in the adoption of this very law. Since Croatia is a tourist country with the removal of the 0.0 prominence, it will be satisfied with tourism activities, but also wine producers. In the bill, special attention is given to young drivers, given that the group makes up 11.5 of the total number of drivers and causes 20% of all accidents. Vehicle management under the influence of alcohol is especially the most common cause of traffic accidents, especially those most difficult and occur almost always with speed correlation. The bill allows police officers to act more easily in sanctioning violations on the spot, and many violations will be able to be prosecuted in a hasty procedure, which will significantly relieve the misdemeanors. It also aims to raise the level of professional training of candidates for drivers and improve the technical correctness of road transport vehicles, raising culture and tolerance of road users, education of road users from pre-school age for safe participation in transport, as well as the need to comply with traffic regulations with the ultimate objective of raising road safety levels. Here, as a colleague of Nenadić, I will also make a few suggestions about this field suggestion. The first refers to Article 5(2), which states exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article, when traffic is regulated in part of a state or county road, the ministry responsible for transport operations needs agreement. So the suggestion is to add legal persons who run these roads. It means referring to the county roads and Croatian roads. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, ‘the legal or natural person of the craft responsible for the maintenance of roads shall take care and take appropriate measures to enable safe and uninterrupted traffic to take place’. Since the Law on Public Roads, the natural person craftsman is not responsible for the maintenance of the road. So the suggestion is to delete it. In addition, in Article 183(3), where traffic is prohibited for the purpose of hosting or carrying out road activities, the authorisation shall be granted with the prior consent of the authority responsible for road transport operations. The question is which body is responsible for the tasks of the road area. Furthermore, in the current Article 193(3), the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article, buses and freight cars shall have snow chains on at least one driving axis, and personal cars shall be equipped with prescribed winter equipment. There is no provision in this bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6662	Thank you. I have another announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 2pm at the "Ivana Kukuljevic" hall. I ask MPs to secure the clubs, secure the quorums. Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate at this agenda point. Then, Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6663	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. By applying the applicable Road Safety Act adopted in July 2004, and by applying the new provisions of the same law, it resulted in significant positive developments in safety on our roads. And why the best indicator is the reduction in the number of people killed. In 2005, we will record less than 600 deaths on our roads for the first time. Unfortunately, this encouraging trend in 2006 and 2007, we will not be able to hold back, so that the number of traffic accidents, and certainly most importantly the number of people killed, is growing again slowly. There is no way to ignore the fact that more accidents are consequences and the increasing number of motor vehicles, as well as drivers on our roads. But our ultimate goal is to protect all road users and reduce the number of accidents, especially those with fatal consequences. To this end, there are also any changes to the Transport Safety Act, which should ultimately ensure as little accident as possible and as few serious consequences as possible. The goal of these changes is not to punish the driver. They may agree that fines are provided for those in breach of the traffic rules are high. However, with the quality of implementation of all necessary preventive measures and quality education and drivers and all road users, the fact that there will always be unconscious and irresponsible road users and that the measures of repression are necessary to protect our citizens from such drivers and prevent the serious consequences of traffic loss. The proposed law regulates the fundamental principles of mutual relations, the behaviour of participants and other road operators, traffic control and traffic control powers, the basic conditions which must meet roads, traffic rules, traffic signs system and all other segments of this important area. I'll look back on just some of them. Since I'm head of the municipality, I think it's convenient to say something about local self-government units. The proposed provision of Article 5(3) narrows down a series of tasks which may be carried out by local self-government units in our field. From my own experience and experience of my colleagues in cities and municipalities, I know that the provision on speed control in the area of local self-government units was inconclusive and that only in this part of the circle at the moment is possible to carry out the tasks of monitoring the improper stopping and moving of such and wrongly parked vehicles. For this reason, I absolutely support and consider a good new proposal. Right to use the accessibility sign for disabled persons. The proposal to extend the right to use the accessibility sign for persons with disabilities exclusively persons whose lower extremities are damaged in such a way that they cannot move normally, to persons with 80 and more percent of the physical impairment, or to persons with lower extremities of 60 and more, goes with the trail of representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities and I believe that it is precisely those who best know how to regulate this right. As far as speed is concerned, the bill introduces two new range of overspeed. Instead of the current range of 10-30 km/h, a range of 10-20 and 20-30 km is proposed. Since irregular speed is the most common cause of traffic accidents, and even 56.2% of the fatalities are precisely that factor, it is clear that it deserves special attention. We often witness the driver's remarks that the police are punishing them for small overruns. This proposal goes precisely to increase sanctions for heavy offenders who, with their unconscious behavior, soar fear and, unfortunately, death on our roads. As far as the safety belt is concerned, in view of our standard, a high fine for the offenders of the safety belt, I consider the correct proposal that allows for an exemption from its use to persons who, for health reasons, cannot use it and certainly, with the particular conviction and procedure of the issue that will prevent any abuse of this exception. The kid's driving in the front seat. If you have ever driven a small child in your child’s seat in your car that was not only in the back seat of the vehicle or if in traffic you have followed the parents who do so then you know from your own experience or have noticed with other drivers in that situation, how well they look at the rearview mirror and follow what happens to the child behind them. They often turn around to talk to the child, calm him down, reach the bottle, and their concentration is at least in the half-way direction towards the child, not traffic. In order to avoid this, and as the practice has shown, parents have often opposed positive regulations, carrying children in the front seat and so far. A new proposal that will make it easier for them to communicate with their child and I believe that the driver will be more concentrated and calmer in that case. However, since most of the vehicles on our roads today have two airbags, there are also traffic police and education, but there is also a constant check on whether the airbag on the passenger side of the seat is involved. Alcohol. Given the statistics showing that the proportion of fatalities in the accidents involved by drivers who were up to 0.5 g/kg of blood alcohol in a mild fall. And it fell from 2005 to 2007. And the number of people who have died in accidents caused by such drivers since the provision of the new proposal continues to prohibit consumption and the least amount of alcohol for young and professional drivers, that Croatia is a tourist country in which the gastroenological offer is, and then spending an important economic factor I support the introduction of 0.5 promila. But changes in the transport culture and awareness of drivers through lifelong education and a series of promotional activities of the entire society still need to make a loud and clear promotion of the password "Do not drive until you drink!". Young drivers. Young drivers defined in point (67) of Article 2 as drivers 16 to 24 years of age where, in the definition of young drivers, their maturity continues to be subject to the proposal of Article 221 of Regulation (EC) No 221/2006, the limits and the permitted speeds of zero tolerance to alcohol and intoxicating drugs and restrictions in force of a vehicle operated and not exceeding 75 kilowatts shall be taken into account. The proposed provision of Article 221 of the Law excludes a provision of a applicable law under which young drivers are not allowed to operate a road transport vehicle in the period from 23 to 5 hours. The situation will be avoided or returned, waiting until 5 or in many cases parents had to rise and go for their children. Driving before gaining the right to management. If we open a black chronicle, we won't be surprised by the fact that even very serious car accidents are caused by drivers without a driving test, without the basic knowledge of traffic regulations and the necessary driving experience. And their number's all just undetectable. Five thousand seveny-six of these drivers were involved in car accidents. And given that number of harsher sanctions, fines ranging from 5 to 15 thousand kuna and possible prison sentences and the imposition of a ban on driving vehicles after passing a driving test are not too strict, but are a real warning to unconscious drivers and their parents. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I have referred only to some segments of the Road Safety Bill which should lead to compliance with the Criminal Law, the European Union's legal regulation, the simpler and more effective treatment of police officers in sanctioning offences, the tightening of sanctions for the most serious traffic offenders, and a series of other measures provided for in this proposal are going towards finally stopping black statistics on our roads. From what I can tell, I support the bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6664	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6665	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I'll take a few of the same words to refer to this bill on road safety. There's been a lot of words said. The draft draft proposal for this law was not attended by associations and various institutions. I think this is what I have in front of me. I can see they were involved. Well, here was the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities, part of the Auto Club of Croatia, Centre for Vehicles, Central State Administration Office, High Violent Court, State Institute for Measurement, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Health and Social Care. So that's what all those entities that mattered to make this bill were involved in. What are the reasons for passing such laws? So I will only specify some, which is the non-compliance of the provisions of the applicable Road Safety Act with the provisions of the Infringement Act, the harmonisation of the Road Safety Act with the regulations of the European Union. The applicable law contains a number of weather and nomotechnical errors that need to be corrected. For those reasons, more than 200 articles need to be amended in the applicable law, requiring access to the new Road Safety Act. The new bill also proposes some changes, some have already been made. Only to say that in relation to the tasks of the local self-government unit, the proposed provision of Article 5(3) would be subject to a circle of operations that units of local self-government can carry out in their field only for control and relocate operations, improper stop or parking of a vehicle. In Article 5, the applicable law of the unit of the local self-government had the possibility to control the speed of movement of the vehicle which was not able to carry out and, therefore, it was not possible to implement that article. Here, the new proposal of the local self-government unit also includes regulations and jobs, and there are certain costs and we propose that the fines charged by local self-government units in the conduct of operations under this law are the income of those units of local self-government. Something has also been said about the right to use accessibility signs for people with disabilities, is given the right to persons with 80 or more percent of the physical impairment or persons with lower limb damages of 60 or more that can be marked by that law by the vehicle to be transported. This accepted the proposal by representatives of the Associations of Persons with Disabilities and representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. It is important to say that, with this restrictive provision, this approval has so far been used by 15 thousand people with disabilities and the proposed provisions of this law would benefit 38 thousand people with disabilities. It is also important that the provision of Article 82 suggests increasing the fine from 500 to 700 kuna for those drivers who park in places reserved for disabled persons. I don't think that's right. As regards the safety belts, the proposal for a provision in Article 163 suggested that the safety belt should not be used by persons who are convinced that, for various reasons, they cannot be used. I think that's good. This provision is based on the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for an Intergovernmental Conference and for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, as referred to in Chapter XIV. Traffic policy. When we talk about the use of traffic lights so far, the applicable law has imposed that we must have lights on by day. This bill does well to eliminate the use of short lights in summer use, a period of time but only refers to winter counting of time and I think it is good because a large part of our tourists visiting Croatia come to us from the countries of Germany, Austria, France where there is no such obligation. I think it is and that way it will be easier for them to adapt here to our new law. And I think that even when passing short lights, this law will reduce fuel consumption and make it more environmentally beneficial. So here's something about the Safety Drive Centers. There's been a lot of words. I, in the attached provision, leaves out the provision of a applicable law under which a young driver must master a safe driving programme for 6 to 24 months. Here, unfortunately, we only have one centre of safe driving in Croatia. According to some analyses to open the Centre of Safe Driving, it takes at least 10 ha of land, and the investment is somewhere over 10 million euros, so I think here we are until we build such centres I think it's a good idea for such a provision to be abolished. Something about young drivers. Here is the proposal for Article 221 of the regulation on young drivers where they are told not to operate a vehicle at a speed greater than 80 km/h, on a road intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles at a higher speed of 100 and on highways here are 120 km/h. In addition, young drivers who pass the B-category test must not operate personal vehicles whose power is more than 75 kW, which I think is perfectly fine. It is also important to leave out of the applicable law that provision that young drivers, as it has been said several times, cannot drive from 23 to 5 in the morning. I think that's good, because here's the provision that turned out to be counterproductive, because most young drivers at that time waited 23 to 5 o'clock in the morning at disco clubs, cafes, and then so tired, and sometimes even during that period and something more drunk, sat behind the wheel. I think they were much more dangerous than they're going to be now. There's something new in this bill, and it's a discounted, portable and export tiles. The proposed Road Safety Act compared to the applicable ones sets out new types of tiles, which is good. We have test plates other than plates that are issued for vehicles for a maximum period of 15 days. The test plates shall also be issued for a period of three days to carry out technical examinations of vehicles having the correct controls, stops and which are duly marked. In practice, a problem arises as to how to take an unregistered or unregistered vehicle to a technical inspection station, and this provision is enabled if the vehicle has the correct control devices. I think that's good anyway. And something new, which is a portable tile that has not been in Croatia until now, and is issued on a one-year period in the name of a legal and physical person, a craftsman who is involved in the production, upgrade, transport or sale of a vehicle, which can only be used for vehicles that have the right control, stop and are properly marked. For transfer plates, the transport certificate and traffic licence shall be issued within one year. I had an inquiry about why it wasn't for two years. I think it's good to have this bill going on for a year. If there is a need, I believe that, for example, other countries as I think it is in Austria or I don't know what the Czech Republic might think about it. But I think that this is a good indicator and that the will to want to be here has proved to be in line with some of the practices that are in the European Union. A few words I'd say were there speeches and about the heights of punishment that were too high, so we can agree that maybe some were too high. But what I'd like to say is that punishment is not tax. The punishment is punishment and we must all be aware that the restrictions that exist must be respected if we do not respect that the punishment follows. Here, we are also aware, I hope all of us, that every law that is being passed, and related to the safety of traffic on the roads, certainly will not be for everyone's sake. He's got a lot of associations and a lot of thinking. Each would adapt it to its own needs, but I think here are some of these amendments that have been proposed in this bill amendment, and I think that here's what made it right a few illogical things, and so I'm going to support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6666	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon who's not here, so he loses. Now it's a five-minute debate. The first is on behalf of the club five minutes of SDP, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6667	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, Associates, Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me really look back in a few minutes on this legal matter that has now passed, and one I would say is an important debate in this assembly, and I am sure that the government will consider the proposals and suggestions that are on the track to improving and increasing traffic safety on the roads. We know that this law is really important to people's lives and health, and that's what's being pointed out here. Answering the question why the traffic safety decline remains in me as a permanent question that we should try to find the answer, if not entirely, then fragmentally and by that answer, then also to act with the answers. But let me also say that I hope that the legislator will respect the thinking of the SDP club, but not only of the SDP club, but also of how much I understand the majority thinking of the Transport Committee, to question itself, so whether the Ministry of the Interior can be the very body that proposes this law and implements it. We believe that we need to seriously consider and draw closer to the solutions that are in most European Union countries, which is that the Central Ministry for the Implementation of this Law is the Ministry of Transport, and that in creating a transport policy, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is particicipating from the point of view of security in the narrow and I would say that already who understands the broader meaning of that word, and when it relates first and foremost to the role of man in security, and the Ministry of Education and Science when it comes to the education and training of all traffic participants to get better in transport. At the same time, I also think that it could be included in this law already, no matter what it was called, it doesn't have to be advice, it may be exactly the coordination of ministries that will worry about the coordinated action of all ministries that this law is implemented as well as possible. A model of punishment that this law suggests as a basic model, I would say imposes, is not good. That's what some MPs have been talking about, and from the HDZ bench, I'm not going to list them now, because of course it's about that we all need to think in a responsible way, no matter who the party is when it comes to traffic safety. It's not good, so this model isn't good, but that's why we need to think more about the role of traffic prevention in order to suppress this model. I'll just say one example. It's not good to, for example. The fine is 500 kuna for a ride back, the dangers are quite high when you drive backwards, and let's say a thousand kuna for our peasant who doesn't take the mud off the tractor and enters the road. Of course this is not good either, and it's causing traffic risk, but I don't mean proper punishment in these two cases. I therefore point to the illogicality, inconsistency of the penal system. And I'm also warning, because I think it's safe to find someone who's going to start a constitutional litigation in relation to a solution that when drivers go into traffic with zero, with 0.0 they won't be punished, but still they'll be punished if they get to, if they drive at 0.5 and hide, let's say a car accident. I think we need to get into a clean solution, which is that all drivers are equal and given the consequences of having 0.5 alcohol in their blood. That's what I also think you should think about. And in the end, I end up thinking that I really need to turn to traffic prevention and less punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6668	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS and HSU club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, also concluded 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6669	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, I would have on behalf of the HSLS Club and HSU several observations that can certainly contribute to the quality of this law in the second reading. First, I would ask that the term zero tolerance in the assessment of the situation be replaced by another appropriate term because zero is not tolerance, so it could be 0,1, 0,2, but zero tolerance as such does not exist and only it can be a gentle term or a gentle term for the prohibiting clauses that are so far in force in this law. Secondly, I would pray that when the number of victims per 100,000 people in certain countries is indicated, I quote, France 8.8, Austria 9.3, Italy 9.7, Germany 6.5, Great Britain 5.5, Finland 7.2, Sweden 4.9, the Netherlands 4.6 killed by 100,000 inhabitants, to explain this and to draw certain conclusions. In fact, we have a country here that absolutely has no connection to highways and we have one country that has a blood alcohol concentration of 0.8 permeates. And they have at least the rates of casualties per 100,000 inhabitants. It is certainly about one transport culture that has been created for decades, it is about road infrastructure, it is about road signalling. I ask that from an expert point of view in the assessment of the situation, such things are a little broader and to see which of these data can be drawn from the conclusions. By the way, our statistics are quite incompatible because we're bringing in so many new highways annually and we have a system of constant, constant changes, so it's hard to figure out something statistically based on our statistics. Furthermore, in our assessment of the situation, we mention new drivers, but new drivers are not mentioned in Article 2 of this Law, although they are very interesting, although it is a very interesting category. Since you can always talk about experience as an element of road safety, and experience with such nowhere in the law is sufficiently valorising. So we're coming up with an absurd situation. The young driver here is somehow framed for years of life from 16 to 24, and this same young driver with 21 years of age can manage the bus and be responsible for the lives of the passengers. Therefore, I would ask you to separate the question of new drivers because it is not a guarantee of safety if someone has become a new driver at the age of 30 that tomorrow he can be a safe participant in traffic, therefore they should be specifically processed in this law. The definition of a traffic accident, if a traffic accident occurs because someone has run into a rock slope, will not be considered an accident by this law because it is not caused by a violation of traffic regulations, and this can happen. It may occur that someone encounters oil, that due to the low visibility of road trips, these are all the elements that indicate that a traffic accident occurred, regardless of the fact that someone did not break traffic regulations. Otherwise, we welcome this newspaper regarding the definition of the tolerance of the presence of alcohol in the blood. We welcome the abolition of the discriminatory decision to ban driving young drivers from 23 to 05 a.m. because really, really stupid things have happened in life. We welcome the extension of the rights of persons with disabilities to edit the area of accessibility. We welcome the change in the approach of punishing everyone to punishment only the offender. We welcome the inclusion of family associations of persons injured in transport and recommend their inclusion in the development of the final draft law, recommend the inclusion of transport experts and auto school representatives in the making of final draft laws, a little more measures in the punishment. And finally, we in the Social Liberal Party and the Croatian party of pensioners support this proposal of the Road Safety Act in the first reading, deeply aware that only one small part of the overall traffic safety is being dealt with while most of it must be resolved through the life of a higher degree of transport culture in Croatia that starts with pre-school education and lasts as long as we live and drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6670	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6671	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Right, this law returns these 0.5 proms. But if someone commits a traffic violation, not just an accident Mr. Shmrem was talking about. So if someone commits a traffic violation of 0.2 promila, 0.3 or 0.4 then that same one is misspelled. For example, if you forget to give a blinker and you drink 0.2 or 0.3 pomegranate, one beer, if you are stopped for blinking, then you will also be punished for blasphemous alcoholism and for not giving a blinker. So here on this part you're the authority that passed a bad law with 0.0 promila simply not to say that they've made a mistake and that they've passed or proposed an absurd law. The truth of the law was then passed in 2004 with the help of part of the opposition, but this law that belongs to me in the anthology of political nonsense is still the authorial work of the ruling ones. Today and the last time we deal with this article in 199 and here while I'm at his place, I'm saying that the provisions on acquisitions are up to 0.5. But the essence of the law lies above all about dragon punishments, about absurd punishments, about penalties that do not have a precedent. This law can be very easy to come down to skin-pulling drivers who today have over 2 million and 127 thousand. A police officer can charge you on the spot a thousand kuna fines, and if you pay for it, then you won't be registered. However, the question arises who brings with him these thousand kunas. I hope our officers are more reasonable than the legislator and know how many thousands of kunas are. It's actually one-quarter or one-fifth of their salary if they work clearly with overtime, and I hope they don't yell at the skin of citizens who kind of pay them. If these kids who were here yesterday protested against the Ministry of Education, had by any chance a driver's license, they might have forced the government to give up these dragon sentences. Representative Boro quoted yesterday, not the last time, I won't repeat it, but there might be some new "I'd rather go to jail" than pay the fine." And don't think gentlemen that they'll be able to scream to the people like that forever with those fines of skin. What's the IDS stand for? This law is primarily marked P.Z.E. So it's about European law. If it is a European law, then let the penalties in Croatia be no greater than in Germany. It would be logical that when we bring such penalties, we also combine the average salaries in Germany and Croatia and therefore propose some balance between violations and wages and not that Croatian citizens pay twice as much as in Germany. By the way, I'm saying that if pilots can fly plane with 0.5 proms as captains of ships, that our professional drivers and young drivers can also drink one beer, means they have 0.3 proms and let's not paint on that. Clearly, when we talk about young drivers, I mean not from 16 to 18 but from 18 to 24 years old. They're finally people who go to the army or go to the army, who went to war, who can work, gamble, start a marriage, and then drive 0.3. Finally, when we got our driver's license when we were 18, we could have had that beer and why wouldn't that be the case today. Clearly, all in all, the law must be adopted in some way but with changed penalties for the sake of these 0.5 changes. Our penalties must not be greater than they are in Germany and they are understandable for the end that the legislator will be cynical, along with penalties and wages, more precisely punishable with wages or, better yet, wages in Croatia will be harmonised with penalties, and then this law would have a full purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6672	Thank you. Finally on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6673	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will only briefly comment on a part of these discussions that I have heard, that is, the reasons for making such proposals for the adoption of such a law. The main intensities of the MUP in the drafting of the Proposal for a new Road Safety Act 2004 was a catastrophic situation at the time of 2003/2004. years on Croatian roads. I will only repeat once again that in 2003, we had 701 fatal road users, and for the first time since 1997, there were more than 700 fatalities. In 2004, so the year we passed the law, in the first six months we had 43 fatal victims more than the first six months of 2003, so in the year that was catastrophic, one of the hardest in the last ten years. If at that pace and this dynamic that people continued to suffer at that speed in transport, they would eventually have more than 800 deaths in transport in 2004. After the entry into force of this law in the second half of 2004, we had 136 fatalities less than in the same period in 2003. It is doubtless that the application of this law with all its measures and provisions has yielded results in this particular field that the number of deaths in traffic has been dramatically stopped. Of course, it is not only a result of the application of the 0,0 provision but also of other measures, so I would also say the psychological effect of the start of the law, however, the result that, in 2004 and especially in 2005, for the first time after 40 years, was less than 600 people killed in transport in the Republic of Croatia, and that is certainly a result which cannot be challenged, because I repeat again that it is a clear consequence and the result of not only a provision of 0.0 but also other measures prescribed by that law. You must also make sure that the results and effects of application of provision 0.0 are difficult to compare because they were not recorded as perpetrators of a traffic offence anywhere in the MUP records by 2004. Those who committed a traffic violation or a car accident with a concentration of up to 0.5 because it was allowed. The effects of this provision 0.0 could only be seriously analysed after 2004 when this concentration of 0.5 and 0.0 was introduced into the law. And all they saw was that the situation after that year 2004-5 was stabilised against these drivers who were involved in accidents with a concentration of alcohol up to 0.5, and that was why we suggested that this provision be abolished 0.0. We also understand that the repression itself will not solve this current problem in Croatian transport, in Croatian society. That we must approach the road safety problem multidisciplinaryly, multi-resorically, that we have to deal much more with prevention and that in all segments of society we must develop primarily a culture of responsible behaviour in transport and there is certainly a place of Croatian highways and the Ministry of Education and School, the civil sector, I would say the whole society because they may be the best example of another country where through years of effort we have come to the fact that the number of deadly road users per 100,000 inhabitants is smaller than in Croatia. And finally, indeed, me and Minister Roncevic listened carefully to all your comments, suggestions, during the previous debate. We will consider all remarks and suggestions and those that are justified which are consistent with the basic purpose and the purpose of this law will certainly be incorporated into the proposal for a final version of the law that will go to second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-25-0.u6674	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. We move to the Road Safety Bill, first reading, P.Z. No. 39. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "First. Proposal for a road safety law is hereby adopted. Second. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find that most of the votes with 96 are for, 9 abstentions and 8 are against this bill's motion.
