ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15705	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of us is the integrated text of the new law, the proposal for a new law on detectives, which should be regulated for the first time by a special law. Thus far, and at this time, the activity of the detectives has been regulated by the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property, or by certain articles of this Act, since the adoption of the Law on Private Protection in 2003 has ceased to apply much of that law. Only provisions governing the activity, the detective's activity, remained in force. Since this activity, which is expected to be increasingly interesting, the need for an integrated law to regulate this activity and provide a legal framework for the exercise of this activity has emerged. According to data on the number of registered detectives at this time, there is no too much interest in carrying out this activity since 15 detectives have been registered in Croatia, and 46 persons have passed a detective exam since 2004. And although at this point this activity is not particularly diverse, it is realistic to expect that with time there will be growing interest and that is why we have decided to pass such a special integrated law that will regulate this activity in accordance with European standards. This bill regulates everything necessary to create a quality legal framework for the performance of this activity. Well, that's how the conditions for performing detective activity are prescribed. According to the proposal of this law, detective affairs and activities, i.e. activities can be carried out by legal persons and craftsmen by amending, in relation to previous provisions of the Law on the Protection of Persons and Assets Act, that all forms of commercial companies can be dealt with by detectives, and not just as was formerly only the command and public companies. Then, it is also prescribed other than the conditions for carrying out the detective activity for legal persons and craftsmen are also prescribed and the conditions for the conduct of the detective's duties. So, for those natural persons who will perform detective tasks and the conditions are that they have residence in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. an approved stay, have the least professional name of the acceding, professional first grader or university graduate, have the ability to general health care, not to be legally convicted or subject to criminal proceedings, to meet the safety requirements, have passed a professional examination for the private detective and to know the Croatian language and Latin letter in the pretext and in the letter. It is also prescribed to perform detective tasks, so it is prescribed that detective transactions should only be carried out on the basis of a written contract between a legal person or a craftsman and a detective service provider in order to ensure one legal certainty in order to know who is doing those tasks. Then it is certainly prescribed that the detective should collect information and information from the person, only from the person who is willing to give it and that information and data should be prescribed. In addition to collecting information and information which should be the basic task of detectives, i.e. companies and craftsmen engaged in detective activities, the detective may also plan and implement measures to protect business secrets, information systems, economic and personal data, then carry out protection against listening and recording, to carry out written delivery in court, administrative and other proceedings, to collect evidence, data and information for public authorities. It is then required to keep records of the tasks and activities it carries out. The private detective shall not carry out the activities of the introduction into the possession of forced collection, intermediation or purchase of a criminal offence, giving or receiving a bribe, and shall not collect data whose collection is prohibited by special law. The private detective must also not carry out any activities that are within the jurisdiction of the police, security services or judicial authorities and may not use funds or devices for covert recording or listening. A private detective must take care of the rights of every person to protect dignity, reputation, honor and privacy. Indeed, it is prescribed that fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens should not be violated in the exercise of this activity, and we believe that it is very important to prescribe it precisely and precisely in order to avoid the abuse of this activity. It is also prescribed that a private detective is required to submit all the data collected in the form of a written report to the party and all other data which are not documented and which are not relevant for the contracted business to be destroyed within 8 days of the day of the contract being completed. Legal persons engaged in detective activity must run several databases. The most important are the register of slotting contracts, the register of issued work orders and the list of persons on whom he has collected notifications and data. The controller of the database shall be obliged to keep a record of slotting contracts and a register of work orders issued for at least five years. The person who performs the detective's work or detective is obliged to carry a detective card that proves his identity and property to the person he collects the data from, and is obliged to show it to a police officer, inspector, ministry or police administration at their request. The Department of the Interior is in charge of the activities of detectives and detectives. Inspectors shall have certain powers in the exercise of control over the exercise, so that the powers laid down are that the inspector is authorised to verify, determine the identity of the persons carrying out the detective activity, temporarily until the arrival of police officers limit the freedom of movement to find and catch a person. Then temporarily until the arrival of a police officer to confiscate cases where circumstances indicate that a particular case is related to a solution to a criminal offence and a number of other powers. It is also prescribed that the Minister of the Interior will adopt sub-legislative acts that will be even more precise and detailedly regulated and set out certain segments in this area, so it is prescribed that the Minister will adopt a Regulation on the terms and conditions of the conduct of detective affairs, the manner and programme of laying down expert examinations for private detectives, the content, the appearance of the detective's identity card, the spatial and technical conditions for the business space in which the detective activity and the content and the manner in which the data collection is kept. Criminal provisions are also prescribed in the event of infringement of the provisions of this or other law. So, let me finish. We believe that this law will create a good legislative framework for carrying out detective activity for which, as I said, there is no particular interest at the moment, but it is realistic to expect, in time, that more and more companies of legal and physical persons will decide to carry out this activity and it is necessary to pass a quality law. The government has accepted the initiative that the law, that it goes into regular procedure with two readings because we have noticed that certain objections to a series of discussions on committees are justified and we will certainly consider all the comments made on the committees and that we will hear here in a particular debate and we will indeed try in the final version to prepare a law that will best regulate this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15706	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at the 27th session held on 17 September 2008 discussed the proposal for a law on private detectives. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and makes the following comments and proposals to the text of the proposal. Article 1 To supplement the statement, taking into account that this law regulates the performance of activities, and the conditions and manner of carrying out detective work under that activity, in accordance with Article 34(1), will be prescribed by the competent minister by means of a sublegal act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In line with this observation, it is apparent that the detective activity does not understand the above mentioned tasks. At the same time, in paragraph 2, state that it is necessary to make sure that legal persons and craftsmen or only detectives as their employees are allowed. It is proposed to use, in Article 4(4), the description of the entity of that criminal offence in view of the amendment of the Penal Code. In the second subparagraph of paragraph 8, the proposed solution shall be reviewed in the light of the provisions of the Labour Act and shall be prohibited from collecting the data on the worker himself. This Regulation shall enter To point out that it is a simulated ransom, or simulated giving or receiving a bribe, and to question whether it is really an authorisation to hold and carry firearms. In Article 25(1), supplement the provision so as to show that the documentation is submitted to the Ministry. In addition, to supplement the provision of paragraph 2 in Article 29, it shall bear the obligation to report to the competent police administration and by written means. In accordance with Article 30, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter It is not appropriate to remove the unnecessary indication of articles in brackets and to establish in Article 34(2) that the amount of compensation is determined by a solution. All provisions of the proposal propose to abandon foreigners and to use undetermined or difficult terms such as, for example, continuous, excessive, appropriate, other knowledge and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15708	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? Yeah. On behalf of the Justice Committee, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15709	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the 12th session held on 16 September 2008, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on private detectives, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 28 August 2008, with a proposal then to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The Committee adopted the bill as an interested working body. In the opening statement of the applicant's representative, it is pointed out that the draft law prescribes the conditions for carrying out detective activity and work, defines the detective activity, competence and procedure for issuing the authorisation to carry out the activity, determines who can carry out the detective's activity, prescribes the method of recording, keeping and making available with data collected by the private detective and others. In the debate, the members of the Committee at the Proposal for a Law on Private Detectives made the following comments, proposals and opinions. The Committee proposes that the need for the adoption of this law be reconsidered as a matter of urgency. In Article 4(1), paragraph 4 is proposed to specify precisely which proves that a person is not legally convicted or is not subject to criminal proceedings for a criminal offence for which he is prosecuted under official duty. Article 6(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 provides that the safety conditions are not met by a person who has been or has been associated with individuals. The provision does not show which records are relevant for the determination of this condition as to how this condition is explained and to whom such records are available. In Article 7(1), subparagraph 2, it is proposed to replace, instead of abuse of the powers of a private detective, the more difficult use of the authority of a private detective in the adoption of a decision on the withdrawal of a private detective's permit. Article 8 proposes to regulate paragraph 2 in such a way as not to allow the detective to enter into a contract on the conduct of detective work primarily in matters which are not permitted by this law and subsequently for matters which would endanger human rights and fundamental freedoms of other persons guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Article 9(1) proposes to regulate the legal consequences of a situation where a person is not warned that the data is voluntary. In paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 is proposed, instead of ‘wide slander’, to prescribe ‘suffering slanders’. The opinion is that sub-paragraph 7 of the same article, which reads as follows: ‘the facts and circumstances relating to the personal situation of citizens, the procedures of natural and legal persons or their property relations for a private detective who collects information and does not contain restrictions’, is therefore suggested to be reshape and restricted. It is proposed to amend Article 12 in a way that, instead of the word "business" the word "work". In paragraph 2, the private detective's affairs are limited by police jurisdiction. The opinion of the Committee is that this proposal must contain provisions on awards and fees for the work of a private detective. The proposal has not been sufficiently regulated by the expert examination for the conduct of private detectives' affairs. It is proposed to lay down, in Article 40 of the proposal, provisions relating to private detectives and to cease to apply to the effect of this Act. In the final address, the proposing representative pointed out that the applicant would consider all the proposals and opinions of the committee if the Croatian Parliament decided to discuss the second reading, i.e. to submit certain amendments if the law was to be adopted by emergency procedure and all in order to improve the final draft of the law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on private detectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15710	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15711	President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We know that the detective activity so far has not been regulated by a special law, but the Law on the Protection of Persons and Assets that regulated the security activity contained provisions that regulated the detective activity but only the basic conditions for carrying out the detective activity. This proposal for a law on private detectives fully regulates the carrying out of detective activity. The law attributes the way in which documents, records, storage, data available by private detectives are collected, sets out the registers which are required to be managed by all those involved in the detective activities and the Ministry of the Interior. There's a detective's card, conditions for doing detective work. The law defines how detectives operate, and also determines the jurisdiction to carry out administrative and inspection oversight. Articles 35 and 36 of the proposed law lay down detailed criminal provisions and fines for possible infringements when carrying out detective activity. It is important to stress that it is a private investigative activity that comes out of the framework of the investigative activities carried out by the state authorities. In accordance with this legislative proposal, detective affairs may be carried out by legal persons and craftsmen who receive authorisation from the Ministry of the Interior after fulfilling the conditions laid down in Articles 3 and 4. The exception is private detectives who are authorised to do detective work from an EU Member State who will be able to behave, who will be able to conduct detective affairs but only by entering the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. One of the more significant conditions that people who want to deal with detectives is the fulfilment of the security requirements laid down by the verification carried out by the competent police administration. Detectives with a detective service provider must enter into a written contract, but must not enter into a contract to carry out detective jobs that would endanger the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms of third parties. Private detectives must not collect notifications from third parties against their will, but must warn them that notifications and data can be given voluntarily without any coercion. Articles 9 and 10 shall specify which information and information a private detective may collect and which safeguards he may implement. Private detectives are not allowed to carry out tasks in the jurisdiction of police, security services or judicial authorities. Detectives must take care of the rights of every person to protect dignity, reputation, honor and privacy when performing a detective's work. The proposal for a law on private detectives has the task of fully regulating the conduct of detective activity, so several articles listed by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice should be more clearly defined and laid down more specifically, making the final proposal for a law clear and unequivocal although the law provides for the Minister of the Interior to adopt certain rules on the conditions and manner of carrying out detective affairs and the rest, but if it is possible to regulate this legislative proposal completely in certain articles, it would be much better. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the proposed law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15712	Thank you. It's Mr. Boris Sprem's turn on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15713	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll just say in the beginning and finally, hopefully some new things. Namely, the government's way of handling when and when it accepts, as it has accepted in the case of the Road Traffic Safety Act, two readings. It's the same portfolio, then there's no change in the second reading. I hope so, and I'm a little bit convinced that this time after many of the remarks that have been made through the work of the board, but also the remarks that will have been made here and will now be further made, that you will change your attitude towards the objectors and that you will install them with the relevant attention into the second reading. And it's not that I don't know who gets any points, it's that we have all together, but, above all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia get the best of the laws, not the worst of the laws. I also think that it would be good for the government's representatives to speak, not only do I think of you now on a certain legislative proposal and speak first, that it would be good to refer already to those proposals and those opinions that are given to working bodies because there are therefore working bodies that concentrate and content, since there are people who are more prone to certain specialities there to say so, contribute to making the law as good as possible. So I think it would be good for the government, I say, to respect the already made remarks and proposals that have already been submitted to them in writing. And now I would, let me move on to the concrete remarks that the SDP Representatives Club has on this bill. Already, Mr Tomljanovic, when speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, where we discussed it, said Article 1 was not in line with Article 34, I just think it should explain it a little more, so that the representatives of the government see the depth of the remark. Therefore, Article 1 which is, of course, an introductory article states that this law regulates the conditions and manner of carrying out private detective activities, in order to say in Article 34 that the Minister of the Interior will adopt regulations, and firstly, there are five indents, on the terms and manner of carrying out detective tasks. So, of course, the Minister of the Interior can't do what the law has already predicted, and in Article 1, it can only, by the authority of Article 1, solve certain things, as it says here well, that it adopts a rule on the way and program of passing an expert examination, the content... IDs, technical conditions, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, this is not the only example where such standards of mutual non-compliance appear in laws because, of course, executive power, especially not the minister, may still be the government in some circumstances and under certain circumstances, the Constitution may do so, but certainly the minister cannot pass a rule on what the law solves. Next, Article 3 is said to give someone, a craftsman or a legal person permission to carry out the work of a private detective, among other things, a feature that is not legally convicted or punishable, not to be conducted against him for a certain criminal offence. There are experts from the Committee on Justice, above all the professors of the Faculty of Law, who warned that there is a certain discrepancies in the laws governing such matter, since it is not really known what such one feature is proving. Is the confirmation of a competent criminal court or any other confirmation possible? So, of course, we also warn of this one need to say who is actually saying that someone is not legally convicted and that a criminal act is not being conducted against him. I personally have a comment on Article 4 in the last indent when it says that domestically, to say so, a private detective should know the Croatian language, and one who is a member of a Member State of the European Union does not have to. Now look, in some laws we have, I noticed that the basic knowledge of Croatian language in order for a stranger to do certain jobs in this country should be known, so he should have this property that he knows Croatian, in some others he does not. So how, say, a craftsman, we don't get into a legal person now, where, say, he can do the job himself, co-sponsor with the environment, and above all, the social environment if he doesn't know the Croatian language? I don't know if it's possible for someone in the UK from Croatian citizens to do such a job without knowing English? I don't think that's possible. I would then warn in Article 6 of an inaccuracies which are mentioned in terms of security conditions, which is one of the conditions that a private detective must have had to fulfil that it was not in relation to individuals, groups or organisations aimed at committing a crime or offence. I mean, this is, now I have to say, it's really an old socialist term that's very imprecise and that it's sprawling. Then if it's written that it's sprawl, then you should define what's sprawl. I think we agree on that. I suggest we get it out of the law and formulate it differently. In Article 6, it's well mentioned, I wouldn't repeat it. But Article 7 states that a private detective to collect information to determine some facts, then says she collects information about facts, circumstances relating to the personal situation of citizens. What does the personal position of the citizens mean? That should be defined as well. Because this law, otherwise by nature, things get in the way or it can get in the way of human rights and freedoms. So that should be very precise when defined by law. In Article 10, we do not understand what it means when a private detective can conduct protection against listening and recording. Protecting who? That doesn't say. It could be anyone not just a party. Especially interesting is article 12, where it is said that a private detective is not allowed to carry out tasks in the jurisdiction of the police. Of course, just what jobs. This needs to be distinguished precisely, precisely. Article 30 is also referred to as supervision, and Article 1 below is subject to control of administrative inspection. But you don't have any other articles in that head of yours telling you what administrative surveillance is, that it exists at all, but it's always about inspection surveillance. So I suggest that either that, in Article 30, you simply throw out or you just say that there is inspection surveillance or that you say what is administrative surveillance because you mention it here, and I think it would be good to say it too. Finally, Article 40 states: On the day of entry into force of this law, the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property relating to private detectives cease to apply. That's what I said on the boards. I'll do it here again. So it's a formula that usually occurs in transitional provisions in some legal proposals, and then in laws it appears... but it is not precise, and it would be better to say exactly which norms of this law cease to apply, or that since this is about the Law on the Protection of Property of Persons, it seems to me, it does not seem to me, but I am sure that the same thing is proposed to the Government, and the Government to us Parliament, that then change that law to simply throw out those norms and then we solved the problem but in one clean way and no more problems in interpretation. [[You don't understand.]] And at the very end, therefore, related to what I said at the beginning, this time, and after that was indeed a concrete debate on both the competent working bodies and this assembly, I believe that the legislator will really respect the remarks made on the first reading and the provisions of the first reading and will, of course, prepare one quality final draft of the law. In that sense, we as a SDP club will support the first reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15714	Thank you. HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15715	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank our working bodies and the home body and others who have considered this law in such detail and correctly, have given us a number of suggestions and what Mr. Šprem says, it would be good if the promoter had made it clear whether they accepted these proposals. I think you should accept them and, starting with you accepting it, I will not mention and repeat these same objections to this bill but will touch some other objections. What first involves colleagues and colleagues in the face of reading this bill seems to me to be a powerful influence of the security lobby. Namely, such designed solutions allow existing security companies to register without any greater effort for this activity as well. That's certainly not good. Secondly, it is also alarming that, in the drafting of this bill, no, at least according to our information, the private detectives' association has been consulted and that it leaves too much discretionary space, I would tell the police administrations to determine who has it and who has no conditions to issue a permit to carry out this activity. That's why we've been through this bill in detail at the HNS club, and we don't want to criticize it where we're not able to give a better solution ourselves, so I'd like to ask you Mr. Secretary of State to follow me here, although from the phonogram you'll be able to extract these suggestions, they're about to go in the next direction. Article 2 in defining what detective activity is also necessary to indicate the collection of evidence, you dropped this because it is of particular importance in cases where the quality of the preparation of claims is intended, i.e. the initiation and conduct of litigation proceedings. For example, in the protection of copyrights, patents, etc. where material evidence can directly prove a breach of the rights of the damaged person, i.e. the prosecutor. That is why it seems to me, and it seems to us, that, in any case, the collection of evidence should be referred to in Article 2. Furthermore, according to the regulation which has so far regulated this activity, one of the conditions for granting a permit to carry out the detective's activity was an obligation to determine the traineeship. We believe that this standard should not be put down, but rather that it should be kept, of course it should and make certain exceptions. Namely, it is necessary to exclude persons who have at least three years of work experience in special laws, e.g. The law on police, defined as authorized officials, because the standard of such acquired experience significantly exceeds the content of the intended length of the mandatory traineeship of a private detective. So it's about authorized police officers, military police, secret services, judicial police, they should definitely be excluded, but only them. Furthermore, the way in which the legislator formulated paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 6 opens up the space of possible abuses as they give discretion to the competent police officer to disqualify a person in the security clearance procedure without valid evidence, only by noting that it is a permanent or occasional consummation of intoxicating drugs or alcohol. It's possible according to this proposal of yours. We at the HNS Club hold that it is necessary to reshape what the legislator has proposed, so that it is defined that the security conditions do not meet the person who has been seduced into police records as a consummation of intoxicating drugs, the perpetrator of alcohol offences, etc. This amendment defines that only official police records, not the personal position of a police officer, are relevant in the security verification. We also believe that the permission to carry out this activity in the security clearance process should also be refused to persons who have been illegally fired from the Armed Forces. There's no mention of that either. Article 8 of this proposal defines the obligation of a private detective to perform work based on a work order, which is essentially a bit unserious, as more than 90% of private detectives in the Republic of Croatia have trade status. So they'll have to write their own work orders. Would it not be better for colleagues to resolve this issue in a way that they get, or that they have enough power of attorney, let's say the way lawyers with powers represent their clients? So, power of attorney instead of a work order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It should be possible for a private detective to collect information, information and evidence, inter alia, on criminal offences that are being prosecuted on official duty upon request of a clearly damaged person. It is known, however, that in cases of criminal offences which have been inflicted on over a thousand kunas, these crimes are being prosecuted by official duty. There is no reason not to allow the injured to be able to do anything, including the help of a private detective to regain, say, his car, regardless of whether it is a criminal offence being prosecuted in a private lawsuit or under official duty. Article 12 states which tasks a private detective should not carry out, inter alia, and that he must not carry out the purchase of a criminal offence. The applicant's intensity is completely understandable to her, we have no objection here. However, in cases of theft, for example, goods from the manufacturer and its reselling on the illegal market, and in cases of plagiarisation or counterfeiting, say goods and its unauthorized sales under the original brand, the process of proving the offence for this proof is important and the collection of material evidence. We therefore propose that the new sentence be made extremely possible for a private detective to buy items that may serve as material proof of the conduct of the crime. I don't think that would clearly disrupt your general concept of Article 12. Furthermore, private detectives under this bill have powers that are rarely delicate in nature and private detectives are exposed to different risks that can lead to abuse of powers. It is therefore necessary to establish the standard of conduct of private detectives by a special code of ethics, according to us. We propose that a specific article in Article 13 states that a private detective is required to comply with the Code of Detective Ethics by the Minister of Interior, with the opinion of the Association of Private Detectives previously obtained. A harsh violation of the code would be considered an abuse of the authority of a private detective, which would give the Ethics Commission of the Association of Private Detectives prior to the sanctions of the competent police administration. Finally, the provision which defined in Article 25 the obligation of a private detective to, in addition to the persons on whom he collected the information, lead and list of the persons he collected from, I don't think he holds the water. Namely, she's not reasonable. In fact, two articles earlier, in Article 23 of this proposal, the Law defined that notifications or data can be documented and by persons who are not willing to sign the minutes. This includes individuals who want to maintain their anonymity. In practice, it is therefore impossible to keep a collection containing a list of all persons from whom useful notifications and data have been obtained, and in particular not of those of whom no useful information has been obtained. I think that's kind of pointless. The HNS Club will support this bill in the first reading, and we are grateful to all those who have also proposed to go in two readings, but would suggest to the promoter that less stick to the soufflé from the security lobby and that as much as possible consult the Association of Private Detectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15716	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15717	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. As we see, this law and Croatian legislation are in line with European Union regulations and we are actually meeting this individual legislative proposal for the first time. Conditions for the pursuit of detective duties and the rights and responsibilities of private detectives are prescribed by the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property. Since the provisions relating to the detective activity are contained in the law which primarily regulated the security activity, only basic conditions for carrying out the detective activity are laid down and therefore that activity should be fully regulated by this specific regulation. As we have heard from the State Secretary in the opening exhibition, about a dozen agencies operate in Croatia with about 30 persons who have passed a detective exam or have a license to do detective work. Those who do this work mostly worked in the police, the military or the state's attorney's office. Detective activity in the last period due to the scope and variety of requests for services on various issues of fraud, theft, blackmail, loyalty of employees, disappearance of persons, company rating checks, credibility of business partners, corruption, etc. Because of the indetermination of the rules, they were on the verge of the law. The proposal for a law on private detectives prescribes the conditions for carrying out detective activities and jobs, the power to issue authorisations for the performance of activities, the permission to carry out detective work and the way in which these operations are carried out. The proposal for a law to carry out detective activities allows craftsmen and all forms of commercial companies, while according to the applicable provisions of the law on the protection of persons and property, that activity can only be carried out by craftsmen or companies of persons. The law prescribes a way of documenting, recording, keeping and making available data collected by the private detective and establishes registers that are required to be conducted by legal persons and craftsmen who carry out this activity and the Ministry of the Interior. A detective card has also been prescribed, and a competent authority has been established to carry out administrative and inspection controls. This activity may be carried out by legal persons and craftsmen who have been authorised by the Ministry of Internal Affairs as well as by a private detective who has been authorised to carry out those tasks issued by the Member State of the European Union or by the State of establishment of a contract with the European Economic Area. And what exactly is detective activity? Here we specify that this is an activity and that it implies collecting the information and information needed to determine the facts, insight into personal and other data, and the use and processing of personal and other data for the needs of the orders of detective services all within the limits of the authority given by the contracting authority and in accordance with the provisions of this law. If detectives reveal information on the preparation, act or criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty, they shall be obliged, without delay, to notify the State's attorney or police of all the information, and in this way, to assist the regular authorities that care about the security of the state, or citizens. In addition to those mentioned in the field of detective activity, European standards and compliance with other regulations are adopted. There are several reasons why it is necessary to welcome the adoption of this law, especially so far, private detectives have acted as we pointed out on the edge of the law, or they have been equated with security guards, which has made it much more difficult for us to work. On the other hand, this research activity is important to parties in certain administrative criminal, criminal and other proceedings which wish to carry out investigative activities beyond the scope of which the State provides or wishes to carry out investigations in cases where the State is not obliged to carry out such investigations under the applicable rules. Since a dozen detective agencies are currently operating in Croatia, there is obviously an interest in this type of activity, therefore it is necessary to determine exactly what private detectives should investigate with their unwitting performance. Reading an article where the owner of one of our agencies is talking about what he should have done to meet the requirements of a client who wanted to check out a company I wondered if he wasn't entering the house and searching for dust on the cabinets in the living room of a manager still a little too much. I therefore consider a provision under which a person carrying out a detective activity should not conclude a contract in the performance of such a business if human rights and fundamental freedoms of other persons guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are compromised. More important, and that is the proposal, to determine who can be involved in this activity. Security check is therefore important not only for the sake of the client, but also for the protection of the reputation of detective activity. It is good that one of the conditions that a person must fulfil to obtain permission to carry out a private detective's work is to meet the security requirements laid down by the verification carried out by the competent police authority. It is to be assumed that there will soon be a need for amendments and additions to this law, not for the sake of Croatia's expected accession to the European Union, but also because the potential for the development of this job is large, and especially because of the increasing inflow of foreign private capital, and therefore it will certainly need to be more precisely regulated by the parts of this law. Regardless of what we have pointed out and perhaps some of the outstanding issues, we hope that the competent institutions, in particular the Ministry of Interior, will take all the necessary activities and measures to minimise the problems in the implementation of this law. In addition, we believe that there is room for individual specific issues of the law to be quality-edited, procedurally simpler sublaws which are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. Since this is about the first attempt to regulate this area and bring our regulations in line with European Union regulations, the HSS Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15718	Thank you. The HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15719	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the HSSB welcomes, above all, the possibility of this law being discussed in two readings. It also welcomes this proposal for a law by the legislator, which among other things is the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union. Of course, this activity was only partly regulated, and it is also true that according to the State Secretary, there was no, or any greater interest in the pursuit of detective activity. Since only 15 detective houses or 15 agencies are registered for detective activity, 46 persons are allowed for this type of work. My colleagues and colleagues have actually made most of what they suggest and doubts about certain provisions in the proposed law, I would just refer to a few. Personally, I do not think it is good that what is said in Article 1 or that the terms and conditions of the conduct of the private investigative activity are prescribed by this law, and then in Article 34, I think it is bad, it is prescribed that the minister adopts a rule once this law has been adopted, it is required to adopt within one year of the entry into force of this law. At the same time, paragraph 1 of Article 34 states that the Minister of the Interior shall adopt a regulation amongst others on the conditions and manner of carrying out detective tasks. So a year after the entry into force of the law, the minister adopts a rule by which the detectives will have the conditions and the way in which they do the detective's work. I think it's too long a deadline, just as I think the conditions and methods of doing this activity and detective work should have been regulated in most parts of the law and the regulations that will be passed by the Ministry of the Interior, of course, should be laid down for some of the less important things. Furthermore, in Article 4, the conditions issued by the police department for the authorisation of detective work are, among other things, in point 4, that it is not legally convicted or subject to criminal proceedings, therefore, the HDSSB is also asking the question and to which it is proved. I think that the law should make that clear which certificate, which the institution issues evidence that the person is not legally convicted, that the criminal proceedings are not being conducted against him and all of what this point 4 contains, just as it is said, for example, in point 3., that the person should have general health skills, but it is also said that this general health capacity is being proven. It is proved to be the belief of a specialist in medical work, i.e. authorized medical institutions. When we talk about security conditions, then the same observation, therefore, repeated remark, which means in Article 6 that a person does not fulfil the safety requirement if he was in contact with individuals, groups, organisations directed, directed, means her, criminal acts or offences. What does it mean that some groups are focused? Does that mean maybe genetic orientation? What does that mean? Or does that mean they were recorded as offenders as perpetrators of criminal acts? And besides, what are the criteria that this person who intends to conduct the detective's affairs was involved? What's that? Is she in the police department's records, or the court records, or the convictions? In fact, I think this is a little vague and here I am asking the promoter to make this part of Article 6 a little bit clearer, that is, bring a little more concrete criteria and parameters, which is what this means. Article 9 states that a private detective may collect information from a person, from a person who is willing to give such information and is obliged to warn that person that the data is voluntary. What happens if this warning is missing and whether it is really necessary by law to limit the work of a detective and by collecting information, of course according to the law, it is necessary to warn the person from whom he collects the information. I think it's something to think about whether a detective in a job should warn a person or a person from whom he collects information, of course by collecting information in the way that it's allowed by law. Also in Article 9 concerning the collection of information to candidates for employment, i.e. employees, it is said that I think it is necessary to verify that this provision in Article 9 is in accordance with the Labour Act and related to the prohibition of the collection of data on workers. What I would like to stress in the end, I think that, that is, I expected from the motionor, the Ministry of the Interior, in a concrete case from the Secretary of State, that these things that have been highlighted at the committees in the previous debate, which we have heard here, so that certain vague questions, and the vague questions in this proposal of the law, there are, that the Secretary of State, the MPs in the Croatian Parliament explain these issues, because these issues, in fact, for the speaker and my colleagues and colleagues, have been raised as unclear, as an unequivocally, therefore, I would ask the Secretary of State, that regarding this debate which I have had, to explain certain articles, which they specifically mean, particularly, for example, for hidden recording whether this detective can, in which cases he can do, when he can listen, and whether he can at all be heard, whether he has to ask for the purposes of listening, to be heard, and to the evidence that he should beheard , and to be heard from theevidence. And so, the other things that were presented in this debate, which we've heard from both colleagues and colleagues. So, I hope that the Proposer will take into account all of this here are the views presented in front of the HDSSB but of course what colleagues and colleagues before me have said, objections, doubts that it will give us the possibility of clarification on these questions. In any case, the HDSSB, here in this first reading, will support the proposal for a law on private detectives, with the expectation that the Proposer will adopt the remarks made in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15720	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This legal proposal has three essential characteristics. The first, inaccuracy of terms and definitions in it. Second, neglect of fundamental human rights and freedoms especially towards the privacy of citizens. And third, discrimination against Croatian citizens against the citizens of the European Union. Let's do it in a row. First, inaccuracy of terms and definitions. It is seen through Articles 4 and 6 which have already been spoken here. So how's it all coming together now? The police department is competent to issue approval and to verify that the potential private detective meets the security requirements. Now how are these safety conditions described? It's stretching, it's vague, it's incomprehensible. Therefore, it does not meet the requirements of a person who has been or has been still in contact with individuals, groups or organisations aimed at committing criminal offences or offences. Organizations aimed at committing criminal acts. It's some kind of criminal organization that's teaming up. I've never heard of a misdemeanor organization being created. We haven't seen it in practice yet. What kind of criminal offense group would that be? Now it's already been asked here what it means now in relation to individuals, groups or organizations... Someone's the nephew of someone who's committed some kind of crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now he's allowed to do this detective job or not? He's in some kind of relationship with his uncle or he's not in contact with his uncle for the police. Or he was involved in some crime. That word, that term in terms of here, doesn't mean anything, or it can mean anything or nothing. He should be explained, too. Furthermore, he cannot do that job if he constantly and excessively consumes alcoholic beverages. And this needs to be established by the police department. First, what does it mean by continuous and excessive? Is it continuous once a week? Is that twice a month? Is that twice a year? Watch it is continued if a man consumes every month for 10 years then consumes on a continuous basis. What does that mean, excessive? To get drunk? Where is it, who records it? Police. Will he be invited every Thursday to measure the amount of alcohol in his blood? That's why it's been days since one authority to the police station in charge, right, the police department to judge. I'll give you permission, I won't give you permission on this or that basis. Therefore, on the basis of the data obtained by the verification. Such a test without knowing at all what this check should include other knowledge. And other knowledge. The police department shall grant or do not grant approval. What other knowledge is that? From whom do these other knowledge come? How do they collect them? And what are they like? What does this other knowledge even refer to? Another knowledge may be that, knowing that someone is tall or short, that he's bald or that he has hair. What other knowledge is important for this without being stated in the law? Anything can be a second finding. Thus, it gives too much authority to the police administration to grant or not to grant approval on the basis of completely unclear criteria. Article 7 states that the competent police administration will take away a private detective's permission to do business if he abuses the powers of a private detective. In the criminal provisions that I'm going to talk about later, there's no limit to the withdrawal of the license at all. It's just a set of fines. Based on what does it mean to abuse the powers of a private detective now? That means, when someone abuses authority, it means they do any of these parts for which the fine is intended. He's already misused his powers. He hasn't already done it by law. As soon as he didn't work under this law, he abused his authority. Otherwise, I personally think that since we're giving someone the law the opportunity to pretend, that they're dealing with this business to control whether they're doing this job legally must be very strict. And that punishment must be the withdrawal of the license. The one who does the detective's work and doesn't do it under this law must be banned from doing so. He's losing his license. It's the only reasonable punishment. As for the other, other my remarks, which is to protect the privacy of the citizens. For example, for example, the provisions of Article 19, paragraph 3, "A private detective must not perform in any other way" to publish a pardon "not in any other way to make available information which he has come to by carrying out a contract work or by any other person to enable the publication of such information without the consent of the party. Now be careful so strangers may be in the interest of someone being investigated by a private detective and publicly... in the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In another place, it says that he dares to use the data he has collected only for the purpose to which he has collected them as normal as possible. But if by this law we allow the party to collect such data, and they are collected for one particular purpose and publicly publish, then we have opened the door to human rights violations and freedoms and their privacy and that, and that is, not that we have unearthed them, but we have opened them wide. There's supposed to be some kind of restriction. No public announcements. They may be used in court proceedings if they are collected for this. I can turn myself in to the party on the insight you have a contract with. But there's no publishing it. We're going to have a phenomenon, and maybe this law makes it possible that newspaper publishers, that media houses will take private detectives to get into someone's privacy, and that they'll differentiate people. For the purpose of this or that increase the circulation of their newspapers or the promotion of certain, certain policies. Penalties, as much as I still have time, are just incredibly ridiculous. Be careful: "The maximum penalty of 15 thousand kuna will be fined by a private detective if he has collected information and information so far even though she is not willing to give them to him." What does that mean? They'll be forced to collect them. "And will be punished with 15 thousand kunas." "Use means or devices for disguised recording or listening." He can't do that. And now if he does, he'll be punished for 15 thousand kuna. So 15 thousand kuna, at least 15 thousand kuna, is worth one of his jobs, one of his jobs. He with one job done pays this fine. Or, processing and using the notifications and data that it has come to incur contracted transactions contrary to the purpose for which they have been collected or stored incorrectly. So for the ultimate negligence he collects data, uses the opposite purpose for which he has collected them, doesn't keep them high enough to go public when they're released and for all of it, secretly recording, listening and for all of it, his maximum fine will be 15000 kuna. This is just unimaginable and this is the most important observation in this debate. Watch out, the penalty for this can be the withdrawal of the license and nothing else. Because if some private detective is listening to someone and after that they can continue to carry out that activity, is people dear then we are here, then we are doing damage by adopting this law. Then we all citizens of this country cast out the terror of private detectives with a suspended penalty of 15000 kuna. Therefore, think carefully about these criminal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15722	Thank you. Replications. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Stazic, I am particularly concerned that in one segment this law is unarranged, and it is unarranged that you mentioned it, which is in the sphere of violation or the possibility of human rights violations. Since the first reading is I hope that by the second reading it will be clear whether private detectives can listen, I can also record what I'm particularly concerned about, which is the definition of public space. That means if I'm sitting in a bar that I can get a bug or a bug from a private detective under the table. Today, it's not a bug that solves it, it's that it can record me on camera. Now, the second question is that this law isn't there in that part of the inspection work surveillance defined in fact inspection, that is, monitoring all that together. I think we're in a very close area and this law needs to make it clear how detectives can collect data and where they can collect it and what it is to abuse the data they come up with. Otherwise, this law has a series of things like this, I wouldn't call them funny things, but I'm particularly worried about it in Article 10 that other than collecting information and information, which is why private detectives can collect evidence, data and information for public authorities. Because that means that the Ministry of the Interior or Intelligence not only the news agency that you mentioned may or may not be able to hire a private detective. So a series of questions in this law are that are unclear. I don't understand why some things aren't explained in more detail. I believe it's a first reading and it's a good thing we went in two readings after all that until the second reading this thing will be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15724	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15725	Comrade Lucin, we have good and very strict conditions for covert monitoring, listening to people when it's done by the bodies persecuting the authorities. It also requires the approval of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court judge, the Supreme Court, the authorised Supreme Court judge so that the USKOK could, so I don't know which police are conducting a covert follow-up. There's no such thing here. What can't be done by the state will be done by detectives as proposed by this law if this stays this way. The possibility you mentioned that the bodies were persecuting, that the police themselves were using detectives where they couldn't get the Supreme Court's authority for covert surveillance here was incorporated into the law. Well, the recent judge, and then I'll hire a private detective, he'll do it, so he'll do it. He'll be punished with 15 thousand kunas. And very important, and very important. One dangerous law does not make serious changes until another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15726	State Secretary Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15727	Thank you very much. Here, I didn't mean to answer, but just to give one clarification and an answer to Mr. Stazic and some other MPs who have troubled this issue. I agree that it could have been happier to solve this in a way that says he's going to lose his automatic license, there's no reason not to. However, this law does not allow such abuses because it is an unauthorised recording of a criminal offence and under Article 4 if it commits a criminal offence Article 4(1) point 4, so he can do the job as a private detective if he is not legally convicted or not subject to criminal proceedings among other things. There's a legal basis to take away his license and not be able to do that job anymore. So we haven't done that much law that's unquality. And the second thing you said, I was a little surprised that why this is Article 19(3) why a private detective shouldn't make other information available that he came up with. Maybe someone hired him to drop someone off. We find it inadmissible to have that information published by a private detective. The person who asked him for these services and who he gave them, may publish them and dispose of them as he pleases. However, this law just wanted to prevent it from being used by private detectives to calculate... a person in public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also said when you tried a grammatical, grammatical interpretation of the provision of Article 6 you said which groups are organised to commit the offence. However, it clearly states that this article, item 1 of the first indent, refers first to individuals, and says: “Who was or was in connection with individuals, groups that commit a crime.” Individuals can commit an offence, so I have no ambition to say that this is the perfect law. We'll certainly try to fix it. There are shortages. I said it at first that we would surely respect all those remarks. However, it is not good to downplay all the solutions that still have some logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15728	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15729	It is incorrect for you to claim that Article 3 of Article 19, you have prevented private detectives from putting in, not giving public information that they have collected. Why? Because one private detective can order from another, so he'll be a party in the process, not a private detective, and he'll publish it if it's in his best interest. What is the point, what purpose do we have to achieve? We need to achieve the purpose of the data collected by the work of a private detective being used only for the purpose to which they are collected. There's no publication, there's no, it can't be where there's no public interest. . /. And because if you're not the Secretary of State aware of the dangers of this, I'm very sorry, because that means you won't respect these remarks until the second reading, but I assure you that the danger of shagging people, of violating their rights and freedom through this law exists. It exists, it's embedded inside. Well, it's in the interest of all of us to stop it, I hope the ministries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15730	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have received the Proposal for a Law on Private Detectives and this legislative proposal, as well as many, regulates, aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and we also have a statement of its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. So far, the conduct of detective affairs, and the rights and duties of the same ones, have been regulated by the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property of 1996 and 2001, which mainly regulated the security activity. The adoption of the Private Protection Act ceases to apply in this law provisions relating to security activities while provisions relating to detective activity remain in force. Since the existing law has mainly regulated security activities, the conditions prescribed are insufficient to carry out detective activities, so a new law should be adopted to regulate this activity. It is therefore a private investigative activity that comes out of the framework of the investigative activity carried out by the state authorities. So far, according to the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property, these tasks can only be carried out by craftsmen and companies of persons, while this proposal allows detectives and all forms of companies to carry out the law. It is also prescribed that detectives can perform private detectives who are employed by legal persons or craftsmen who have the permission of the competent police department to perform these tasks. The conditions to be met by a legal person and crafts shall be laid down in order to obtain the authorisation to carry out this activity. In addition to this proposal by the Home Affairs Minister, the Ministry of the Interior is authorised to withdraw the authorisation to carry out the detective activity of that legal person or craft that ceases to fulfil the prescribed conditions without the legal person or crafts having the right to appeal. That doesn't seem right to me, and I think that should change. The paper is that detective work is no longer a condition for Croatian citizenship, it is enough for a person to have a residence, i.e. an approved stay in the Republic of Croatia, and this is again in line with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. In the manner in which detective operations are performed, it is prescribed that only contracts between a legal person or a craftsman and a detective service provider can be carried out. The law regulates that data should not be collected only from persons who can only collect from the person who is willing to give them, and the detective is obliged to warn the person that the requested data gives voluntarily. Article 12 provides that no data may be collected which are according to specific law, such as the Data Protection Act or the Data Protection Act, shall be prohibited from being published. This is how it is prescribed that devices should not be used for undercover recording or listening. Article 13 states that when collecting data, a detective must protect the dignity, reputation and privacy of the data subject. This bill provides for a way of documenting, recording, keeping and making available data collected by the private detective, and provides for registers that are required to be conducted by legal persons and craftsmen who carry out the detective activity, but also by the Ministry of the Interior. A detective card has also been prescribed and the competent authority to carry out administrative inspection has been established. Article 35 provides for infringements and criminal sanctions for legal persons and craftsmen, so that 10 to 50 thousand kunas will be fined by a legal person who violates the law, and for the same infringements, the craftsman will be fined by between 10 and 15 thousand kuna. I'm not going to talk about the amount of punishment, but I do believe that for the same infringements, the amount of fine should be the same, and I think that should therefore be improved in relation to this proposal. Since the detective activity has so far not been regulated by a special law, and also since this is reading, so we have until the second reading to improve this law, I think it's finally time to adopt and of course support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15732	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15733	Thank you very much. Col. Rebić rightly pointed to a good position, i.e. the importance of Article 13. However, I would warn my colleague, Rebic, how will you protect the dignity of the third party? Let's say in one adulterer triangle you have some third side that you must inevitably harm dignity. We're actually going back to the point, which is what about the paperwork and the data that private investigators come up with, or detectives. That's the most important thing, and it's out of this law that you can't see. We know that these evidence is not valid in court, because it can't be worth it if it's not worth it, let's just say it's not worth the police's evidence, let's say, if it's not done by the Supreme Court or the State's Attorney's office. So again, I stress, this is a very important law from the aspect of human rights violations and the possibility of human rights violations, and I think that some of these border situations that are very much in this law should be clearly defined. So if you want me to be a supporter of letting some of us go if we could violate human rights, and we can't define them or some broader legal framework doesn't allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15734	Replication response. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15735	Thank you. Ma colleague Lucin, I think we can agree that it's not all clear to the end, but we can also say that the documentation that several articles are prescribed is how it is kept, when it ceases to be valid. So, when it stops running certain detective and private agencies, then it's known how data is stored, but I still think there's time for all this precision to be done by the end of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15736	10.55, it's time to report for a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Ivan Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15737	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In order to establish the facts necessary in certain administrative, judicial, criminal, criminal and other proceedings, certain investigations shall be carried out through the bodies leading those proceedings. If persons who are parties to those proceedings wish to carry out these investigations within a range wider than that provided by the State or who wish to carry out investigations in cases where the State is not obliged to carry out such investigations, this law shall allow them to carry out so by engaging private detectives whose activity regulates the provisions of this law. Therefore, it is a private investigative activity that comes out of the framework of the investigative activity carried out by the state authorities. The terms and conditions for the conduct of detective duties and the rights of private detectives are prescribed by the Act on the Protection of Persons, the property whose provisions relating to the security activity have ceased to apply on the date of entry into force of the Private Protection Act, while the provisions relating to the detective activity remain in force. Since the provisions relating to the detective activity are contained in the law which primarily regulated the security activity, only basic conditions for carrying out the activity are laid down, the need to regulate this activity in an overall manner by a special regulation has been justified. The proposal for a law on private detectives prescribes the conditions for carrying out detective activities, the authority to issue a certificate for the performance of detail and permission to carry out detective work and the way in which detective work is carried out. This proposal enables detective activity to be carried out by craftsmen and all forms of commercial companies that, under the applicable provisions of the Act on the Protection of Personal Property, only craftsmen and companies of persons can carry out such activity, therefore, the command and public companies. It is also prescribed to document, record, store and make available with data collected by the private detective and to establish registers that are required to run legal persons, craftsmen carrying out detective activities and the Ministry of the Interior. In addition, a detective card is prescribed and a competent authority is established to carry out administrative inspection. According to this proposal, the law allows detectives to carry out private detectives who obtain authorisation from the competent police authorities as legal employees and craftsmen who are authorised to carry out detective activities. It is also possible for persons who have the authority of a private detective who have been issued by an EU Member State or State Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area to be able to carry out detective affairs in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of this law, although they do not have the right to be granted under the provisions of this law, so that that provision enters into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia in full membership of the European Union. The provisions of this law lay down infringements and criminal sanctions for private detectives who carry out jobs as legal persons and craftsmen engaged in detective activities and for persons performing detective tasks without the permission of the competent police authority. However, in discussions through the parliamentary committees, certain shortcomings of this bill have also been identified and I do well to have the law go into regular procedure in order to reach as high-quality legislation as possible through more readings. So I support this bill in my first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15738	Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15739	Dear colleague, you have now praised a provision in your debate, I have not arrived in my personal debate to say anything about it, so I am now reporting here for a replica of you. So, praise this possibility that the law provides that this activity can be dealt with by foreign citizens, it will be able to deal with after Croatia enters the European Union without even knowing the Croatian language. It's not meant for them. Look, I think it represents one discrimination against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, towards our citizens, and I don't know if there is reciprocity. Will our citizen in any European Union country be able to do this detective work without knowing the language of the country in which the job is done? If there's this reciprocity, even though it's unimaginable that he could make money in a middle, doing detective work in a middle where he doesn't know the language. Unimaginable. But this opportunity itself to open the door to foreign citizens, to do such a sensitive activity in which human rights violations and freedoms can be involved, I find it dangerous and I consider it discrimination against our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15740	State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15741	I just have to intervene again. I wanted to comment on this question later, however, so that some MPs might not repeat it anymore. Namely, you must know that Croatia has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and in this Stabilisation and Association Agreement there is a Chapter 5. The movement of workers, resulting in the provision of capital services. And there's Chapter 2. The provision of services where it is regulated. Croatia has made certain commitments by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is also regulated by the acquis of the European Union by the Treaty in the European Community, Chapter 3. Freedom of movement of persons, services and capital. So, we have not memorized certain provisions, we have made sure that Croatia is a signator of many agreements, contracts, that it is on its way to the European Union and that we must also respect the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15742	If I didn't know the handwriting of a representative, I'd have to hire a detective now to identify who it's about. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15743	We know each other, Vice President, so then you know my signature. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. There is an increasing number of conventions that we sign, which are talking about protecting human rights. And the greater the number of these conventions that we just sign by thinking as soon as we have signed them that all problems have been solved and human rights and all generally civil rights in Croatia are guaranteed and achieved. Unfortunately, it's not like that, but at the same time and without any problem, we're passing laws, as is this proposal for a law on private detectives that is directly attacking human rights. And that's why he said well, fellow Stazic, there is no need to save here and no need to catch up with harsh words, because this bill that is dangerous, as he said, with dangerous intentions and anti-constitutional, endangers fundamental human rights. He also has a class character, because after citizens are economically impoverished they cannot exercise their rights, but others can certainly exercise their rights to their account and even when it comes to abuse of rights. Anyone who has money and means to hire a private detective can dig anyone who's economically weaker, powerless, literally by the inside. Private detectives are allowed something that isn't allowed by the police, which isn't allowed by the SCOTT, which is not allowed by the court. The bill's not good. Whenever it comes to human rights, whenever it comes to insinuating human rights, then we must all be on the same ground and all go to such protection. And when such rights are in danger, then he should be very careful. You well told the secretary of state that there is little interest in Croatia for private detectives. People don't like it, they don't like spies in general. For what? Because they have very negative experiences through any history, any ancient, any recent recent. And they're not happy with today's services. They have great regard for those services, great fear of them. This mistrust goes to the limit, it believes it is directed against them, that these services are often seen now and we see a report from the FBI dealing with what it is dealing with the cause of this financial crisis and the breakdown of four major American financial institutions. That is why they need to serve such services. And then very carefully to fit in and into modern flows, move and with this bill, it's not new or we'd have to look at those, but when they're very well-established and protected by human rights, they're guaranteed. The law on criminal proceedings which speaks very highly of the use of official law enforcement bodies as a whole, when it refers to the handling of the defendant as much as it matters. Every injury leads to, almost every injury and a little more serious result in adjudication of judgments. And often such investigations go to hell, that's why. And here, please, in a whole law that's undernourished, one of these serious laws can't have 40 articles. There's something wrong with it, so this isn't some kind of declaration. And you see, the way detectives do their job has only 10 articles. So just... without reading, you can see that something's wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A way of doing detective jobs that must be dealt with in a moment, which, to what extent and how, there is a flat-rate, paliatically listed as some sort of idea. So it would be much better if this were just some previous debate, because on this basis no other reading can be based. This requires one thing and I would therefore personally suggest to the promoter, indeed on behalf of the protection of human rights, on behalf of Croatia's improvement to withdraw this proposal and to draw up new foundations, starting above all from the protection of human rights a new bill. What does this law essentially show? It shows politically that human rights are very low, that the price of human rights in Croatia is very low, that they are difficult to achieve and that they are very easily violated. That's what we have in practice, and here's what we want to do with some standards. It's extremely dangerous. Let me say something individually about individual articles. Article 2 speaks about the orderer of detective services. Who can be the client? And here the question has rightly been raised, could it be the police, could it be some companies, would corporate espionage be allowed here? It is, because it is not prohibited. Because here you see, Article 9 says what can be done. For the insurance of the rights or benefits of certain societies. Who can do that? It's not allowed anywhere in the world, please don't. This isn't allowed anywhere in the world. And if you put Article 2 together with Article 9 here in your taxicab, but not the fourth, it talks about such serious things, and then we're really in trouble. Article 4 shows what? The attitude of the police in general towards traffic delicacies that are spoken of a lot when here every little one, there are no nights when we don't talk from our televisions about horrible things on roads that swallow people's lives. And that's where the police really insist on proving everything. And you see, Article 4 says that a detective can't become the one who's committed any crime that's being prosecuted by official duty, but it can also be allowed, for all traffic delicacies, even if he's been driving in a drunken state, even if he's killed them in that way by five, six, or who knows how many. That for the state, that for the Ministry of the Interior is no execution. So we still have a message one that there are traffic factors that can happen to anyone. Traffic delicacies, especially heavy traffic delicacies, happen to reckless people who so little appreciate other people's lives that they don't even care about them. It's a message from the police. Great. So, a detective can do business even though he's legally convicted of the most difficult traffic crimes. What kind of message are you sending? And at this point and in these times when roads swallow more lives, we emphasize young lives than the war did. In Article 6, Article 6 is dangerous because it says that the safety conditions of service to such candidates can be done in a way that, since it is not by surprise, it may not be, but may not be, it is not by any means possible for those who issue such permits and without any right to appeal to do so. It means direct politicisation, because we see it in Article 7 that the possibility of the one who has been rejected may request judicial protection from the administrative court but not because of security checks without this one knowing anything about it and without being able to say anything about it for his own benefit he cannot seek judicial protection. Therefore, only political likenesses can be hidden behind Article 6. That, even if it wasn't intended, I can believe there was really no such intention, but you must provide the possibility of such a person complaining. What kind of security checks are these, where a man like Franz K comes in, and he doesn't know who he accused or why, but he's being denied without a word of reason. And there is a question, the issue of constitutionality is also raised in this article. Therefore, the human rights referred to in Article 8 cannot be concluded by means of an agreement on the conduct of detective affairs in which human rights would be compromised, but Article 9 relavates all of this in a very insufficient manner. Article 17. Signify that a private detective can hold and carry a firearm, in accordance with the Law on Weapons, if he can carry it, if he can hold it, or if he can hold it, so I guess he doesn't wear it just like that for dusting and using it, so please, I think it's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15744	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15745	Well, here's a colleague Marinović in her presentation used so few hard words to highlight her debate, because the difficult words are anti-constitutional activity that means that the detective activity is against the constitution already, this law should be counter-constitutional as soon as it is passed, because such activity and the law of dangerous intent, it claims that this law is dangerous intention, a law that regulates one activity, a detective activity which, even now, has the possibility, which, even now, can act and may mean detective agencies act and detectives act so far. And this law fully regulates this activity, and this law should be counter-constitutional. I didn't understand what you were going to say. ... That the law isn't against the constitution for sure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15746	It's rectified. ... That's your claim. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] The representative contests that claim of yours and makes it incorrect. Replica. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15747	With the right of your colleague, you warn that it is totally unacceptable to exempt the criminal offence prescribed in Article 272(2) of the Criminal Code as an obstacle to the pursuit of detective activity. It's about traffic offences, so what does that mean? That means that when Strick gets out of prison, he probably won't be able to drive professionally anymore, he can do detective activity. This will also be possible for Žužić, who killed a 19-year-old girl there in Velika Gorica. The power and judge of Lozin who escaped the scene. We therefore now allow those who have committed traffic crimes to be the most severe crimes and punishments can be as high as they are. Not to be an obstacle to them dealing with detective activity, is that some kind of legal rehabilitation of people through this law? If so, what is the purpose of this rehabilitation? We have not been able to hear this from colleagues here, nor in the debates of those who praise this legislative proposal, but that it is something that is incomprehensible, which in fact there is no place in this law, why now some criminal area of traffic, should be excluded, cannot be dealt with by detective activity by someone who is legally convicted of any crime, and why not then and for the crime committed in traffic. Incomprehensible. Or what made him a traffic crime makes him particularly qualified to deal with detectives, and that's the only way. If you have any reason to.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15748	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15749	You say a colleague rightly defines it as some kind of rehabilitation, and it's not just a rehabilitation, it's an incentive, because if the promoter says he can't become a detective of any person who's convicted of any crime, except for... There's a message being sent. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's not socially dangerous behavior, it's nothing to us. That's where you just turn aside from that sort of thing. When many decisions, many processes are so harassing for these citizen actions, here's the government sending a message like this. This isn't about a particular social danger for us. And this has been passed through the second law in the Law on Compensation for Violence, it is particularly potent that these are not acts of violence, that the state will not pay such damages. And then it breaks through this law, and then we wonder why such acts are the most deadly acts have become the works constantly on the rise, because we send such a message both directly and indirectly. And in vain, when something happens, messages are sent, we'll serve the fines. You'll serve your sentence but then, even though you're being punished, that person in your opinion will be a private detective.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15750	Second replica, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15751	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid mentioned guns and carrying guns. I don't think that's such a problem, to assume it's even though it doesn't say in the law that those detectives are going to have to pass some course, some kind of exercise. After all, there are more than 300 thousand people in Croatia who can also carry and own weapons. But for me, colleagues are more of a problem that these same detectives can do counterintelligence jobs, so I can protect you from camera recording, with video I can protect you from listening. Now that you take into account that only two institutions in this country can give a warrant or can listen legally and record, it is therefore the police and the agency on the court's orders, or so the state's attorney's office, that is, the question is whether in this way we open up the legal possibility that someone who is in state to call it measures, say a member of a criminal can ask some detective agency to give him anti-intelligence protection. Or it's predicating, but it doesn't say in law again that the police will inform that detective not to do it. I'm actually going back to those situations that are open, and there's a lot of them with this law. And I believe my colleagues that by the second reading we'll have that story, let me put it that way more meaningful than she is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15752	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15753	Mr. Vice President, I don't know Mrs. Marinovic's handwriting, but I would agree with her a little previous exposure. This law, which is here in the first reading, is clear that the law that bears the European mark and we are approaching with all these laws to the European Union, but also all of that, I would say negative, and what they say is modern, and what it all means to us is what it actually means to us, and very often we see it on electronic media, ours that are flooded with various Bonds, James Bonds, is, Holmes, Mc... Poirot, etc., and detective service where sometimes for our viewers,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law that we should be getting soon may look a little bit like something that could actually contribute to relatively young people, I would even tell the increase in employment because this seemingly attractive job that might actually be, even though it's not a production activity, but perhaps someone could find jobs in that branch and in that profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd be happier here today at our, at this session, Law on the availability of state-owned agricultural land, which is certainly a more recent and burning problem than the Law on Detectives. But that's not it. The secretary of state said that 15 detectives were registered in Croatia today and that more... that they have passed the exam for the detective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am convinced that there are many more unreported and commissioned than anyone who knows who is absolutely sure to follow our citizens and do the activities that are here in these articles from 8 to 17 mentioned. I would agree with many, and with many who have debated here that this law is actually borderline or borderline in human rights and freedoms, fundamental human rights, freedom, and even dignity, and if someone thinks that it is even a violation of human rights and freedom which is, I am convinced that after this debate which was, therefore, constructive and abundantly well-proposed in another reading will be corrected and corrected so that it will be precisely specified that this does not happen, which I have spoken of, and many representatives of others, that human rights and dignity of man remain protected. It's true that the elderly exist with us, so let me cross myself... What would you say, someone said to spy services and spies, but I'm clearly talking about a young generation that is absolutely under the influence of some media maybe even dreaming, maybe even wanting to do such detective activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, if you'd like to deal with it, then there are articles here that I would like to mention, I wouldn't want to go in and repeat that there is a policy of obtaining approval for the work of a detective or for the work of a private detective. Furthermore, a work order or power of attorney, as one representative said, is also questionable whether the party is ordering, ordering detective activity or a detective should, or should give authority, and then, in fact, the work order is groundless. Furthermore, in Article 12(2), they say that a private detective should not perform tasks other than observation, escorting and recording in a public place, and immediately thereafter in paragraph 3 that a private detective should not use funds or devices for covert recording or listening. What does that mean? The detective will access whoever needs to be tapped, stalked, etc. And tell him, sir, give us a smile because I have Nikon's good apparatus, here you see him here, so I'll film you, I think that's one illogicality that or indifference, Croatian said that really in the same article, so one complete, total indifference. I'm looking at whether, then, what of the two, we should actually apply this in paragraph 2 or this in paragraph 3? Or if a private detective went to Miroga, so the money is traded somewhere around Mirogo in the rain, so says the gentlemen, I'd paint you, I'm not allowed to secretly film you, but I'll do you with infrared, with a camera, but I'll shoot you like this, so I'll use the flash, flash as you say. In Article 19, Article 19 is, I would say in a silent contrast to Article 31, which states that a private detective must not publish, or in any other way do available data that he has come to do his job. At the same time Article 31, there is inspection supervision of the Ministry of the Interior or the Police Administration, and we are witnesses today, how much information is actually leaking from the police and we are also witnessing the simultaneous actions of the Morning List and USKOK in Operation Index, so I ask you if the police inspection is reliable over the control of the data owned by a private detective? And how reliable is that? So we watch everything on our national television, I would say so, or publicly, however you want a show about something that the Croatian Parliament hasn't discussed yet. And he's coming to the benches. So, business financial audit, business party in Croatia. So, television a day or two before, she does it, they discuss it. The Croatian Parliament has not discussed it yet. How that material went to the media, so they could make a show about it. But that's another topic and it's not about this law. I would also agree that the sanctions set out in Article 36 here are minimal, and in relation to those sanctions, fines, or as the people say fines paid for by traffic offences, I would almost say the same thing as funny. I'd almost say the same thing that's funny for these things where it comes very often into question, therefore, personality and privacy and the right to privacy. The penalty is 15 thousand kuna. Up to 15 thousand kuna. I am in favour of changing that in Article 36. Far stricter. And that there's a possibility of taking away, too, the withdrawal of the license. I am inclined to this proposal to introduce such an attitude into another reading of this law. Yeah. It is an interesting article 25 in which legal persons and craftsmen who carry out detective activities run databases. They're running the database and who they've collected the information from. Are we gonna have the whistle problem again? That's what we discussed before our vacation? What comes next to whistles and how they will be sanctioned. If their names are listed in the detective's records and the police inspector has the right to access that information. We're going to have a whistle-wrestle again, and they're going to say, "I didn't say that." Or because he's afraid. Because there are provisions that whistles have already shown as such. We passed the law a few months ago on that. Therefore, it is clear that for this proposal, I am a law on private detectives, with one extensive and very precise work done by all articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15754	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15755	Thank you very much. I would just briefly, briefly comment on certain discussions about this law. I said right at first that we don't have any ambition to say that this is the perfect law. We are also aware that this law is affecting both the area of human rights and freedom and that all citizens are rightly sensitive when any regulation that regulates that area is passed. It is not good, however, when it is not taken into account that there are other regulations that oblige all citizens, commit private detectives to carry out their activities. The penal code of course binds private detectives. And the ignorance of the Penal Code doesn't excuse detectives if they break it when they do their job. It wouldn't be good, it might be insane if the criminal sanctions under the Penal Code were all listed in this law because a private detective could commit a number of criminal acts in an illegal activity. There would indeed be a need for a series of articles to be entered for which they will be responsible and punished. It is also not good for this security check to be manipulated in this way, so Mrs Anticevic said that it can give permission to a politically similar one, that it engulfs human rights. These kind of checks are done in a number of other cases. One of the best examples is according to the Arms Act. When a person submits a request to hold a weapon and the police are doing a security check for him. So this isn't some nonsensus where the first time the police are gonna do a security check and never again. When the police are admitted, the police are doing the same security check. There are a number of other life situations when police are doing a security verdict according to regulations. Is there a possibility of arbitration? There's always that danger and we're aware of it. However, the party that receives a negative solution in this case for issuing a license for a detective is entitled to legal medicines. He has the right to appeal, has the right to an administrative dispute, including that reason if he is denied, refused to issue a licence because of the bias or incorrect arbitration of the police. So it's not good to say in this way that this and Priory creates a possibility for some great manipulations, for large abuses because there are a number of other life situations when similar actions are carried out. The same was the question why wasn't the consulting association, the private detectives' association? One detective is privately registered because he participated in the task force that passed this law, and the text before the government and the Parliament were sent to the Private Detectives' Association and we received an opinion from them. So we didn't do it without consulting the profession. I also said, here I must repeat, that certain, certain legal solutions that some MPs have apostropheed here also stem from the obligations that Croatia has made with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that is, the European acquis and the European directives. That's something to take care of. It was there, I'd say contradictory demands. One wants to limit these people to doing these jobs because they are afraid of abuse and I say that I think that fear is always good in mind and it is good to pass a law that will really come to the minimum if it cannot be excluded from full abuse. But then one other MP asks why a detective must have a work order when doing certain jobs? He has to have just to be able to control whether he's doing certain jobs, did he do them legally? I say there are a number of others, there are a number of other remarks. We're mostly aware of what I said about the law being better. I have listened carefully to all your remarks and be sure that all those remarks from both the Committee and here in the individual debate will be respected which will correct the law and which will eventually remove all the doubts and dilemmas that have arisen here in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15756	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15757	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State Buconjic already said on two occasions that the principle of reciprocity was in fact resolved through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in a way that Croatia gave up the principle. That's not true. I don't know what else he was thinking. But that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15758	I didn't hear the secretary of state say anything about the principle of reciprocity. ... In context, he said? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He may have said that about someone else, in another part of the exposure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But in this moment... I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15759	Eight, Proposed law on private detectives, first reading. So P.Z.E. Number 148. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusions: First, the proposal for a law on private detectives is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote on the conclusions. The result? I find that most votes; 75 votes in favour, 26 abstentions and 2 against the accepted conclusions of the proposal for a law on private detectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15760	Let's go to the following: - The final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters was implemented by the Committees on Law, Environmental Protection, Internal Policy and National Security and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here is the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters. This Agreement was signed on 27 May 2008, and this Agreement regulated co-operation between certain institutions of Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia and their co-operation in preventing and combating the consequences of disasters, civilization disasters and natural disasters. In fact, we are aware that Montenegro is our neighbouring country and that there are many times that certain threats cross state borders and this agreement will certainly facilitate the competent institutions and bodies of the Republic of Croatia as well as neighbouring countries of Montenegro to act much more efficiently, simpler and faster to eliminate the consequences and to prevent these natural and civilizational disasters that almost never ask for borders, but have their natural logic. And we think that this is a very important agreement that will show all its importance in the future, above all, in the end of the fire, and in the case of some other natural civilization disasters and in such situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15762	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? Protecting the environment? Internal policy and national security? Defense. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15763	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. All that we have, which is aimed at mutual cooperation and the provision of disaster assistance, as well as the preventive action on their prevention, we at the HSS Club certainly support it. The proposed law and agreement is in line with the policy of protection developed within the state administration body, which supports the objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia to achieve security and security cooperation and cooperation with neighbouring countries, countries in the region, but also beyond. The adoption of this law seeks to clearly formulate the state's determination to improve the overall area of security with its neighbours. The fact is that civil civil and civil military co-operation has become an important factor in improving joint assistance among countries in the area of the removal of the consequences of natural and civilizational disasters and that, in future competent civil institutions as well as the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, more than this has been the case so far, will significantly participate in the implementation of these tasks. The text of the Agreement in question has been written with an emphasis on humanitarian security and cooperation and without imposing the interest and will of some of the countries, and we consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between the two countries on the basis of which both concrete plans and operational cooperation programmes will be developed and adopted, aligning interests and everything else. We believe that, in addition to this Agreement, similar agreements with neighbouring countries are already signed, and I particularly think about Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this concerns the problems of fire protection in the season as well as with Slovenia regarding the Krško nuclear power plant, which will contribute greatly to the joint solution of the problem in the area of possible disasters. The following hope is to facilitate the work of our competent institutions with partners from the neighbouring country, in particular in the planning and implementation of preventive measures, mutual reporting on dangers, mutual assistance, training and training, data exchange and documents, cooperation in the development and production of equipment for the rescue and promotion of cooperation between humanitarian organisations in two countries. We consider the bill to be good because it expresses the willingness to further improve and deepen the cooperation of the countries signatories of the Agreement. But there is an opportunity to launch new initiatives to sign these agreements with other countries. And because of what we consider good and stated in this debate, the HSS Club supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15764	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15765	Thank you very much. Since let's call this a typical law, I mean maybe there wouldn't be any particular reason to say anything about it, but since it's a specific agreement in a certain way you'll allow me a few words. First, here's a good thing to say that we haven't waited a year or two days for this agreement to come for ratification, or adoption, but here it's only been a few months, and I hope it becomes a practice. Yes, given the content of the Agreement, at the very beginning to say that the SDP club will support it and that there is actually nothing controversial about it. However, I would like to remind you of some experience with Bosnia and Herzegovina, or some of the problems we have had with implementing this type of agreement. I hope that with Montenegro, even if it's specific about the fires, the situation isn't so much let me call it burdensome, frequent or frequent as with Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I think we should work so that we don't have a good deal, and that de facto our problems can occur in the border area. Why is this type of agreement very important, and why, unfortunately, do we think that it will have an ever-increasing importance? For the simple reason that we live in such a time when different types of disaster and disaster became an integral part of our daily life and when more than anyone has said the borders, the state borders have nothing to do with it. So I'm saying, I believe this law, or I'm sorry, will bring the Agreement back to life very quickly. Now why did I answer? I would like to take the opportunity given the opportunity Croatia had, and I hope I still have it. Two introductory sentences. Somewhere in 2001, when Croatia started a little faster than before, different ideas were born to the European Union, which is part or segment of the space that Croatia could take in some joint activities. And that's when the idea was born, from that quadrant, specifically from colleagues from Austria and Italy, that it was actually this space of disaster. And then certain actions and preparations began in the sense that Croatia should become a centre and educational and immediate and certainly different if you want to deal with these problems, i.e. that Croatia should take over the fin. Unfortunately, those things went the way they did. I was very happy, I think when the prime minister mentioned in 2005 or 2004 that Croatia was heading in that direction. Unfortunately, I do not know why this is not going on, because according to my information to my colleagues in the European Union there is also an interest in making Croatia a certain step here. There are two reasons. The first reason is because Croatia is closest to the European Union in the region. I hope it stays that way, that it will be the first to enter the European Union, and the second is because it is human, material and in every other respect the most equipped and has the most experience on this plan. So, this type of agreement, I hope that we will only sign it with Serbia, and I don't have it from neighbouring countries, and I hope that we won't only stick to neighbouring countries because it's not just some kind of fire, I don't know, hear there are earthquakes, there are different other natural disasters when there are also certain third countries' assistance, so to speak. Here, therefore, my appeal to the promoters or perhaps to answer and tell us what it is with the idea for Croatia to take the lead in the region regarding education, training, equipment and, in this way, to run this whole story about civilization disasters. Here, I'm finishing up and I repeat that the SDP club will accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15766	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15767	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is indeed one, it would say, a technical proposal for an agreement, i.e. a confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on co-operation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters. Although it would be good for this title to have another purpose in protecting against natural and civilizational flows. It would also be good to have with the Republic of Montenegro. Given that the border with Montenegro is in a geographical location between Herzegovina, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Croatia, it is clear that without the third party in such an agreement we cannot do much when the space there is so tight, small that these natural disasters such as fires do not choose and leave Bosnia and Herzegovina out of fires that would plague Croatia-Montenegro's borders. I would also say something else, given that I've been offered this title, which is that when we talk about natural and civilization catastrophes that cross borders and one and the other countries and don't choose borders, it's clear. That's what it's clear to everyone that we don't really have a defined border line with Montenegro yet. We still haven't solved the problem of Cape Ostr, and last year was only in Vitalina, visited Cape Ostr, talked to the host there and are very unhappy with the situation that is happening there, dissatisfied with the possibility that their boat, boat, sails to Boka Kotorski Bay. They are unsatisfactory, therefore, by the inability of fishing in a belt more than 300 metres from the Croatian coast, from the Cape Ostrno. Therefore, we are talking here about an agreement with Montenegro on co-operation in protecting against natural and civilization disasters, so cross-border phenomena that do not choose borders, and in fact the border still with Montenegro and the status of the Ostr and the surrounding sea have not been established. We haven't found that yet. So I would ask that, as I was also talking about the Charengrad Ada and the border with Serbia which is also not arranged with Slovenia that, but this time we are actually talking about the border with Montenegro, about the Cape of Ostr and the sea, about the Croatian territorial sea to sort it out already once. It's clear I'll be in favour of this proposal for an agreement, but here's a note that there's this problem, that you don't forget it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15768	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15769	Mr. Vice President, it's an incorrect allegation that the status of the Roth is still questionable. Namely, the border status is very clear, the land border is known, it is known exactly where the border line between Croatia and Montenegro is located and it is clear that our officers stand on the border, just as the Montenegrin police officers and customs officers stand, therefore that part of the border on the mainland is not at all controversial. It is not disputed for us or that part of the sea, however, changed the regime that was signed at the time of the coalition government, so at the time of the Prime Minister Racan who treated in a special way, so the issue of the maritime territorial part will definitely need to be discussed, but arbitration has already been proposed. So, as far as the border itself is concerned, it is clearly defined, it is made according to the badinter and there is an unquestionable state and there is an exact limit and it is now as such functioning on land, so only this sea part has remained in some way dubious and it will be completely resolved and arbitration between Montenegro and Croatia is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15770	An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15771	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, allow me a few words about this agreement and at first to say that the agreement is good and that I fully support this agreement as well as I call for the agreement to be resolved as soon as possible and with the neighbouring country of Serbia with which we have not yet resolved the agreement. As far as I'm concerned, I'd say immediately about the discussion of my previous colleague in front of the club. The agreement is with Montenegro, but the agreement is primarily in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and should be treated as such because we deal with these risks with those agreements and which arise in border areas, but which have an implications for the Republic of Croatia. If that were the case last year's fires that came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to where the entire Dubrovnik area was affected by fires and inevitable, it is inevitable that we make such agreements, given that we have reached a level of system organisation, a complete system of protection and rescue, a level, an enviable level, I would not say enviable only but I would say the best organised in the region, and our aim is to, with our organized forces, in some way, prevent the problems that arise in neighbouring countries, and which have the consequences of the Republic of Croatia. Fires, or all kinds of accidents today, are they civilization disasters, are they natural, do not know the administrative political boundaries we do not need to repeat, therefore it is very important for us all to join at these administrative borders together. But I'd just point very briefly at one thing. Croatia is entering the agreement and agreements with all neighbouring countries with its existing resources. The existing resources that are envious in the Republic of Croatia, which unite thousands and thousands of members of the system of protection and rescue, should be said that this system consists of different legal entities, from different levels of organisation, from bodies, from units of regional local self-government. Therefore, in this system which is an integrated system, it is very important that we organise this system in a way that can respond to the needs of the Republic of Croatia primarily, but also to be able and ready to carry out those tasks provided for in the agreements. I would therefore point out and point out that it is very important to plan the system, plan the system very high-quality precisely by taking care of various levels of organisation in a way that quality plans are adopted on the basis of judgments, to bring quality procedures, to predict strengths as well as where and when they will intervene, with which forces to logistics and financial costs resulting from this. It's very important to do what you would say in a military term in peace, so at a time when there's no problem. So now it's times, especially if it's natural disasters that we don't really know when they can come from, but it's very important to do that. Why? Because this system needs to plan well and play it well, it needs to be planned realistically in time and space. The Republic of Croatia has enough resources and there is no need to create new organisations, new systems that we like to call state systems, state units, state forces because at such a time based on plans and decisions, all these systems to associations at local self-government and beyond become state forces. It is therefore important to plan the system, play the system and at a given time when these forces are engaged they become state forces. I stress that because it's irrational to create new troops, new organizations. I would point out the role and importance of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. It is precisely the role of this body which the Republic of Croatia set up four years ago, to coordinate, prepare in time and plan a complete system consisting of all these subsystems to call them or organised bodies of legal persons, that, at some point in time, at a realistically short time with adequate powers, they may be at the disposition of the Republic of Croatia so that they can function on these occasions. This is why I would like to conclude and support the adoption of this agreement, and I call for both a country that has not yet been done as soon as possible, and so that forces are realistically planned, taking into account both the possibilities and the existing resources and the financial resources that are never enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15772	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15773	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have received a proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters. The aim of this law is to regulate issues of cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters as well as cooperation in preventing them. The agreement is also the result of a mutual desire to improve co-operation and mutual provision of assistance. This Agreement lays down issues of assistance in disasters in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties, conditions of cooperation in prevention, cooperation in the areas of mutual notification of threatening disasters, cooperation in the field of education and training, in the rescue and provision of assistance and exchange of information. The proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on cooperation in protecting against natural and civilization disasters was drawn up in Zagreb in May this year. On the basis of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts where Article 18 is prescribed that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia confirms international contracts requiring the adoption or amendment of the law. Confirmation is the appropriate procedure and decision by the Parliament on the consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by an international contract. The subject-matter of the Agreement regulates the framework conditions of cooperation for the implementation of preventive measures to protect against floods, earthquakes, fires, radiological dangers, industrial disasters, the mutual exchange of information on hazards, mutual assistance, exchange of scientific and technical and other documents essential for the protection, cooperation, but also the production of rescue equipment. This Agreement provides for the crossing of the state border to provide assistance in the protection and rescue, the introduction and export of materials across the border, the use of aircraft and vessels to cross rescue teams and aid. The responsibility of carrying out the protection and rescue action in order to make it more effective for the rescue teams and individuals involved in the rescue and provision of assistance. In the case of the financing of the costs referred to in Article 16, the party sending shall not have the right to ask the recipient and to request the reimbursement of the costs of the aid or the loss of equipment, the parties shall also waive all first to the compensation for damages in the event of physical injury or of death participants in the rescue action unless it has been caused. For the purpose of monitoring this Agreement, the Contracting Parties will establish a permanent mixed committee to monitor the implementation of the Agreement, address specific organisational and technical issues, determine how links are reflected and mutually informed. It should also be pointed out that similar bilateral agreements have been signed with all neighbouring countries except the Republic of Serbia, so these agreements make a significant contribution to better addressing the current situations. For example. It is important that the fires coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina be extinguished, allowing our fire departments to enter the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, our canaders were given the opportunity to put out the fire before the fire crossed the border, so before it takes a bigger scale. Therefore, given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts to which the state expresses its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally not possible to amend and supplement the text, I propose, therefore, and I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15774	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here, in the bill of this law, all colleagues so far have come forward to support the adoption of this law, that is, this agreement. I'll just look back on the subject matter of the agreement and what it says in the law itself, the bill. So, planning and implementing preventive measures against flood protection, earthquakes, fires, radiological dangers and industrial and other civilization disasters. When it comes to floods, earthquakes and fires, I think all neighbouring countries will report it in time and the media will show it. But surely unless we have these agreements a question of radiological dangers and civilization catastrophes... shows he doesn't have the same law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law provides for all measures in Articles 1 to 23, so that Article 10 lays down rules on the crossing of the state border in the provision of assistance, protection and rescue. So the transition to the border crossing and to other places where there is no border crossing means which way. It means that all teams or individuals involved in the rescue and rescue action will have to have marked uniforms and also have IDs and that they cannot cross the border at either the border crossing or at these other crossing points. So I can't carry firearms or ammunition or explosive devices. What is important for the Republic of Croatia when it comes to fire prevention, this is Article 12, where it is said about the use of aircraft and vessels. We know that our planes are owned by the Republic of Croatia, controlled by the Ministry of Defence, and that the pilots, officers, or soldiers of our Armed Forces. So this article is how our aviation can participate, and one of the indicators of good contracts with Bosnia and Herzegovina has proved to be this year when the fire that is going from Bosnia and Herzegovina and within the neighbouring country itself has been stopped. In addition, Article 16 provides for financial and aid costs. I want to say that I'm going to support this law and I want to use it as little as possible and we have as little and less problems as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15776	Thank you. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. And this Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the Cooperation and Protection of Natural and Civilian catastrophes is also seen in a broader context of the normalisation of relations between Croatia and Montenegro. Namely, after processing those responsible for war crimes in the Dubrovnik area, those of Montenegro's citizens. Recently, we witnessed the prosecution of a few of them involved in crimes against prisoners in the camp in Morinj. So, in one broader context of normalising relations and processing of war crimes, conditions have also been created for such an agreement with the government of Montenegro, which is extremely important for all inhabitants of the Croatian south, particularly the inhabitants of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, or more specifically the Konavle Municipality. It is extremely important to achieve cooperation in this area which is very important, given above all that this area is both an area and a thorny area, that the downturns that have destroyed in history are actually complete infrastructures, cultural monuments. Not that long ago, '79. The year was a strong earthquake in Montenegro, which destroyed the Montenegrin coast, so Boka Kotorska and, of course, destroyed a good part of the Dubrovnik area and the historic core of Dubrovnik, and should also be kept in mind the fact that the border area bordering both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro is relatively narrow. So very narrow territory of the Republic of Croatia, land territory. And that very fact puts him at greater risk than the fires that threaten the Dubrovnik area. Last year it was quite noticeable when the good part of the parish of Dubrovnik and Konavala burned down, and in that sense, this agreement will certainly ensure that it is done preventively and that it is handled preventively. As we have an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina on entering their territory for up to 10 km to prevent the penetration of the fiery verse into the Dubrovnik area, so here we now have this proposal for an agreement between Croatia and Montenegro that will also allow for a quality cooperation in this area, and I hope that this will indeed have consequences for the development of Croatia and Montenegro. And in this context, I absolutely support this Final Proposal for a Law on an Agreement between the Government of Croatia and Montenegro in order to really prevent things and help in these times. I hope they don't come, but as far as some major disasters are concerned, we don't have to run away from being prepared for such situations. Here, in that sense, I once again support this agreement that is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15778	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this agenda point. Let's go to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15779	Ninth, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation and Protection against Private and Civilian catastrophes. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 147. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation and protection against natural and civilization disasters. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes; 101 votes for, 2 abstentions are the Law confirming the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation and protection against natural and civilization disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15780	We are going to the next item - Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2007 Proposer: State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Proposer Reports the State Commission for the Control of Procedures and Public Procurement pursuant to Article 9. Law on the State Commission to control public procurement procedures. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Economy, Finance and State Budgets and local and regional self-government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The president of the state commission, Mr. Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15781	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a fifth or fourth report in the five-year term of the State Commission and I am particularly pleased to present it. It is a report ending the first mandate of the State Commission, which was practically then established. This report, as well as all reports so far, represents the maximum number of all data that could have been established in the procedures, appeal procedures in public procurement and are an expression of the tendency to open the appeal procedure maximumly, to be transparent, to draw positive conclusions from the legislator and practice. The important feature of this report is that as the previous report ends with the fact that the cycle of the old Public Procurement Act, therefore all the criticisms which have also been assessed on the state which has been contained in the previous reports are fundamentally, and as regards the lack of previous legislation, they are also here, we would like to believe that the approach to giving a comprehensive assessment of the situation has and motivated the legislator to significantly correct legislation in the new regulations. In short lines, the number of cases being processed was 675 in 2007 and it is in a certain decline, so the total number of cases being considered and this is a drop of 8.48%. When we talk about the number of public procurements that are controlled before the State Commission, then we must compare the data on the total publications published in the National Journal, and this number is increasing every year, which speaks of the development of the public procurement system and the greater transparency of public procurement at all, but the number of complaints from the number of publications can now be monitored by the trends seen from this report, is in decline. In the last year, 3,85 were reported almost 4% of complaints about the total number of posts. This is a pretty small number. It is an interesting information about the number of complaints made in relation to the number of direct contracts published and a direct contract is a way of obtaining which may be at least transparent and at least ensure the principle of the competition, and thus more efficient use of budgetary resources, we have, unlike these 3.85 only 0.8% of complaints made in these proceedings. Data that are interesting and every year cause public reactions are data on contracting authorities, according to the law, the most frequently breakers of the law. I will also warn this year about the inability and inability for the State Commission to really say about those offenders who are the most common law-abiding. The State Commission only owns data on the number of appeals cases, and then on the success of the complainants and that information that is here is only relative, we have no data on how many of these customers have had the total number of purchases, so we have shown this top scale under these conditions. When we talk about administrative judicial protection, namely against decisions by the State Commission, it is possible to bring the complaint to the Administrative Court, so 12.7% of the lawsuits were filed last year. Of course, here we should mention the slowness of administrative judicial protection which I think is an average of three or four years, which is very unacceptable for public procurement. According to the structure of the appeals, 43% of complaints were adopted in the manner of the State Commission's resolution last year. It is still a high percentage that says that those who are highly convinced that they will succeed, but also talk about the degree of unlawful public procurement procedures. This percentage of 43% is in a slight decline, so it decreases and in recent years it was about 50%. If we're talking about the total value that the procurement is controlled in public procurement procedures, then it's 4 billion and 600 million and that information and that value is in a slight decline. Of course, it may be right away convenient to say the information that is interesting for the budget. The State Commission is entering the state budget, namely the fee and the fees for the conduct of the procedure, in the last year, that revenue from the state budget amounted to 2 million and 627 so that compared to the budget of the State Commission it could be said that this is a very profitable institution. As regards the appeal procedure for public procurement in the past year, the average duration of the appeal procedure before the State Commission was 31 days, I speak on average, if we look at parallel to earlier years, the duration of the procedure continues, it is quite certain that according to the new law, this information will continue to be shortened, and there may be good things to say that the State Commission, that our State Commission is one of the fastest, and here in the European Union we have not yet come to. According to the public procurement assessment, it should be said that the past law to which this report relates was extremely well under the normised legal protection issue, so the price of legal protection took place in the regime of 16 articles, 13. The State Commission Act, which was not all procedural, was part of the status law and three articles of the Public Procurement Act. The current regulation has far more, but the earlier situation has developed a situation in which the regulation was to be interpreted, to find answers to questions, with the help of the Administrative Procedure Act, and that is how the practice which has been publicly published and which has actually helped to ensure that this procedure, that the appeal procedure is conducted in a relatively objective, predictable and transparent manner. Here, that would be all and I'm open to answering questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15782	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At the 10th session held on 11 June 2008, the Croatian Parliament Economic Committee discussed a report on the work of the state commission to control public procurement procedures for 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative informed that the state commission was assessed as the best in Europe to use funds in front of the EU's accession funds. It is also among the best in the appeal procedure, which on average lasts 31 days with a weekly reduction in deadlines. In the following debate, it was suggested that the table containing the number of cases submitted by the State Commission and the number of complaints received should also be accompanied by data with the number of total annual purchases per user in order to put in a relative relationship with the total purchases and complaints adopted and to assess the effectiveness of public procurement, individual institutions, local self-government units and other budgetary users. It has been clarified that the new Public Procurement Act has taken into account a large number of observed shortcomings in relation to the previous ones, therefore, that it has installed a number of experiences, with particular emphasis on the provision of electronic advertising as a mandatory means of advertising of public procurement. When asked why, out of all 687 cases in the work during 2007, 63 unsolved, the proposing representative explained that the process of public procurement control is the process in which the cases come and are solved by certain dynamics independently of the calendar year and that these items are also in the resolution phase. He also explained that 12% of the commission's decisions are being submitted, so the practice so far has shown, the complaint to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, before which the procedure is conducted on average for about 3 years. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the State Commission to control the procurement procedures for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15784	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? For local and regional self-government? Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate with the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15785	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored President of the State Commission, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning, it should be said that we are at the SDP Club, satisfied with the Commission's report on the control of public procurement procedures, but we are not even satisfied with the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia and the phenomena monitored by this public procurement system. Namely, the commission is only part of the system and the assessment of the public procurement system to be given through monitoring the procedures that come before the commission would be devastating and would be manipulation for the public. Why? Because it is a small part of the money that has been followed through the procedure before the Commission and a huge number of affairs has not been resolved from the public procurement system and even when the President of the Republic insists on it, let's be open and honest here, if nothing from keeping the integrity of our function would have to clear up this affair. Secondly, by comparing the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures from previous years, I repeat this report imposes many questions that cannot be made clear from the report. ... only at the formal level by comparing the number of items received 2004/2007. A tendency to drop the number of cases of the state commission is observed which the president of the state commission here has pointed out, but it does not reveal the causes of this decline because it is illogical that this fall is in proportion, disrepancy and disproportionate to the number of purchases, the number of purchases, the number of purchases, and the amount of money spent through the public procurement system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about the failures and mistakes, the state audit report, the use of the funds of the ministries and state-owned companies is quite different. If this is added to the fact that the European Commission is also in the process of negotiations, it expresses its view that the law is completely inconclusive when it comes to the protection of national interests and state interests through the procurement process and that it is one of the most important negotiations of the European Commission in the Republic of Croatia in the process of harmonising the screenning and consent with the European Union. Therefore, we cannot accept such assessments only on the basis of the State Commission's procurement control reports because we must also consider the State Commission's report in this section in parallel. The opening was not made here by a representative of the State Commission, a strong problem of direct procurement and a small number of procedures for such a direct contract, and the amount spent through such a system in 2006 was increased in 163 million kuna. There's something that's a matter for the State Commission. So only 7% of the decisions of the State Commission have been filed, 7%, the complaint to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. It could be said that the commission really works things out great then. So a lot of trust in the commission. But let's be realistic about it, so let's evaluate this situation. The items that ended up in the Administrative Court have not been resolved in 3 years, and the public procurement system is being monitored annually. So what is the logic, business logic of entrepreneurs or those competing to obtain jobs or services, to provide services or to perform works through a public procurement system to appeal to the state commission if he expects his request to be resolved in 3 years and not in full jurisdiction. So we created a system that actually replaces purity and security in the competition for public procurement jobs and services. Thus, the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia on an average of three years. It completely eliminates protection in the business world. No, it doesn't lead any purpose rationally to complain. The lowest price as a criterion is absolutely not processed, but it does not have to be the most economically just. Public procurement has an economic, commercial and other function so the lowest price can be and the rule is to play the most economically acceptable offer because, through the lowest, the lowest price procedure is to manipulate it in public procurement. There is something else important in the public procurement process to point out that there are several groups that never come, there is no legal protection either in the form of an appeal procedure or in front of a state commission. These are public procurement procedures which are excluded from the application of the law, Article 6. Public procurement laws. Procedures of small value and direct bargaining procedures. And these things the Parliament never gets a report. And here we are in charge of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with full confidence to control and monitor the work of the Government and the ministries and through them both state and public enterprises. So the vast amount of money the Parliament doesn't control through the reports. Why isn't he controlling it? Because we do not have a simultaneous discussion of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procedures and the State Audit to spend public money through ministries, agencies, administrations and so on. Is that a coincidence? It can't be assumed that it's a coincidence because we have every confidence that the government knows what it's doing. Do we agree on what she's doing or don't we agree that's another thing? But we think the government knows what it's doing. Such discussion of the public procurement procedure separated from the process of considering the State Audit report simply cloudes the situation. Of these three forms that we do not control, I will still point out that the public procurement process below the value of 200 thousand is being misused and can even be controlled because it is because the procedures are being split into units that need to be obtained in the public procurement process, services or, or items of goods or works. Then they split into pieces to avoid law and legal conduct. Obviously, the European Commission has better insight into the public procurement process in the Republic of Croatia than the Croatian Parliament. Why do we conclude that? Because the government does not object to the European Commission's view that the main problem of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is one that is achieved through public procurement and privatisation and is therefore located at political and state level. My and our assessment is that there is no successful fight against corruption or political will while in a public procurement system or in privatisation it is more important than knowledge, entrepreneurial initiatives, honesty and entrepreneurial risk to know someone from the government or government. And such perception is also available in Europe and entrepreneurs in Croatia. Of course, it is impossible for us MPs to speak on the basis of facts because we are not investigating these procedures but we are getting indications from procurement in businesses to procurement in ministries. Therefore, it must be acknowledged that the European Commission's position for us in this case, in this case, is fully valid and measurable. So there is no successful fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia if it is better to be good friends with someone in power than to offer a better and more responsible job from the ability, knowledge and entrepreneurship activities in the public procurement and privatisation process. Because of the fact that I don't owe too much, I think it can be concluded from this that the problem of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is becoming more visiblely sharpened through all the visions that we can talk about here, and even more through those three visions that we have no knowledge of here. This could also be added to some other reasons which discredit the public procurement system as it is established in Croatia. This is a matter of urgency, the qualification of an emergency for the needs of procurement is not brought by an independent body, but by the one who decided to get it. And he's creating a state of urgency, so through the form that it's urgent, he has to do something to avoid the Public Procurement Act. Then these are additional artistic reasons for protection, etc. In other words, we can't say that the State Commission report has shown all the dark side, because it simply doesn't talk about a large part of the money market through public procurement, because there's no knowledge, because the number of cases is being reduced in front of the state commission, and this should really be done with a very amputious analysis because more money is being spent, more public procurement procedures, and there are fewer complaints in front of the State Commission. And the State Commission is doing well in any case as well as showing the number of cases brought down before the Administrative Court and the value of the disputes it has earned. Once again, we will accept the State Commission Report, but we stress the problem of corruption in Croatia will not be resolved until we begin to consider the entire public procurement system no matter what form it was realized through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15786	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President of the State Commission, Madam Secretary of State. Well, here, it's important to say at the very beginning of this exposure that what the President of the State Commission said was actually talking about something that was already behind us, and it's about a law on public procurement that's practically no longer in force since we've passed a new law. However, according to that report, relations within the public procurement system have not changed significantly in the past 2007 compared to those in 2005 and 2006 as shown in this report on the work of the State Commission. Based on analysed statistics, the public procurement score in 2007 is very similar to those reported in 2005 and 2006. Through this report on the work of the State Commission we can see the assessment of the state of legal protection and also the assessment of the state of play in public procurement at all. Through that section of the appeal procedure, it is apparent that the part of the analysis concluded that insufficient regulation governing the work and conduct of the State Commission and the application of procedural provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is not always appropriate, so it creates legal uncertainty and difficulties in the appeal procedure. There is also an increase in the quality of the complaints made, which is also a logic given the law which lasted several years, which reflects the work on interpreting the rules of public procurement and the formation of legal practice. The most common reasons for repealing the selection or procurement decisions are illegal documents for competition, infringement of the rules on publication, infringement of the rules of procedure, breach of the material provisions of the Public Procurement Act or unlawful application of the criteria of the most economically favourable tenders. The parties to the public procurement control procedure which takes place before the State Commission are not often determined to seek judicial protection from the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia for what we heard in the previous debate whether this is the reason for the duration or something else. However, the percentage is very low. This seems in only 76 cases of a total of 622 resolved cases, which means that practically 88% of all solutions of the State Commission have acquired an attribute of power. One part is related to anti-corruption effects. The report also states that the State Commission is co-operating interinstitutionally with the Public Procurement Office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office, the USKOK, the intensive co-operation exists with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Association of Employers, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Economics, the institutions of the European Union, and the World Bank. I think it is necessary to fight if we want to see really anti-corruption effects against corruption include all segments of society in order to make it more successful or successful than it is today. According to the above, it may be possible that in the first months of the application of the new legislation, since it introduces a number of changes to the system to give practical problems to contracting authorities and bonds to apply the Public Procurement Act, the new Public Procurement Act published in “National Journals” 2007 brings major changes to the public procurement system. Frankly, I will find it much more interesting to see the report on the work of the State Commission for this year when we will look at it next, given that I also come as the head of a local self-government unit. The law was passed during the financial year, and I believe it will be much more conversations next year, given the small period of time that units of local self-government are preparing to apply it, and especially those that are relatively small by number of employees, and we are all aware that there are no professionals and we have been educated in the course of the year itself, so I suppose it will be very interesting to see the work report, meaning for next year. Since the basis for the adoption of certain legal solutions is the Reports of the State Commission, and the experience gained in the conduct of the second-degree appeal body's tasks, as well as the fact that members of the employees of the State Commission participated during 2007 in the creation of a new Public Procurement Act, it is expected that the application of the said law will remove many obstacles to the effective work of the State Commission as well as the effectiveness of anti-corruption measures. The report also states that the general public, in particular the European Union institutions, and other international factors, are positive for the work and results of the State Commission, in particular those concerning the effectiveness, speeds of the appeal process and transparency of the work of the institutions. In fact, the State Commission is also assessed as the best in Europe to use the pre-accession funds of the European Union. It is also among the best in the appeal procedure that lasts on average 31 days with a tendency to reduce the deadline, i.e. to reduce that same deadline. Strengthening in the quality of the appeal procedure also helps the developed website of the State Commission, on which there is a register of cases, which allows monitoring of work in the appeal procedure and information on cases. The predictability of legal protection achieved by the publication of legal practice contributes to legal security in public procurement, which is, in any case, to welcome. It is also said that the changes identified are related to the quality of the tendering documents, which are related to the reduction of the number of complaints adopted, the quality of complaints made and the close monitoring of the legal practice of the state commission by private sector representatives. It is also important to note, we heard these figures that the State Commission received 637 cases, i.e. 685 cases, if taken into account 48 cases transferred from previous years, with 622 or 90.8% resolved. Although the State Commission was not in charge of controlling the award of concessions and the control of the public private partnership according to the strategy for the development of public procurement of the Republic of Croatia, it will be given jurisdiction during this year 2008. I believe that the availability of communication with parties in the process and the public of the work of the institution are the activities necessary in the anti-corruption fight, which are visible in the daily work of the state commission. Finally, I will say that the HSS Club will support this report with the same note that the new Public Procurement Act, regardless of the new vote this year, is also creating certain difficulties, is much easier and more comfortable talking here with constituencies, than first operatives, people in municipalities and cities that solve existential issues for 24 hours, means people living in their own area, especially in small towns and municipalities where there is a shortage of people, and ultimately the need for public procurement is a rather complex thing, at the end of the city and the municipalities or county districts to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15788	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15789	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the State Commission. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, I will not talk about the overall problem of public procurement as some predecessors, but rather about the item of the agenda, which is the Report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, so only in one segment of the problem, otherwise very wide public procurement problems in the Republic of Croatia, but I also stress the problems in the countries of the European Union. So, the State Commission for Public Procurement has given us a report on which it is bound by law, and in this report it presents us with a whole series of data that are analytically valuable to see the situation in the public procurement of the Republic of Croatia. So, in that report, they give us the number of cases received, the number of cases solved, the time limit in which they were solved, the number of unsettled, the list of entities that, conditionally said, break the Public Procurement Act, etc. But before we analyze this quantitative data, I would say something about other activities because it is less often said, about other Commission activities because these activities are as important as those that are shown by the figures. So, the state commission is an important entity in the overall fight against corruption, and that part of its task is the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which ended up with an excellent assessment according to our conviction. So the commission participated in 2007 in a whole series of activities aimed at curbing corruption. I will only mention the "Twining project" with Slovenia titled "Strengthening the ability of the State Commission to control public procurement under the KARC programme". In 2000, the project received an assessment of "the best practice model", which means the highest grade, and in this model significantly improves all the characteristics of the public procurement system from its promotion in the legal sense, in terms of the dynamics of resolution up to the quality of the resolution of appeal procedures. In anti-corruption activities, the state commission actively participated in the provision of legal certainty in public procurement procedures, but also in the education of participants, which is equally important. As for the education of participants, I will mention that in 2007 an international conference entitled "Law Protection on Public Procurement" was held in Dubrovnik and that this resulted in a safe increase in legal certainty in this segment. As far as legal certainty is concerned, it should be said that the state commission has contributed to the speed of settlement of the case, that it has contributed to the amendment of the regulatory mechanisms of legal norms, but that it has also provided open insight into its work. The Commission's website is really modeling. Here, look at her on your computers, you will see that you have daily update of information, that you have insight into every procedure, that you have insight into all legal solutions on the domestic and European scene, that you have a very important area, which is the legal practice of the Commission, that you have the subtitle "Legal practice of the Commission of European Union countries", means in any case a website that is current, updated, very comprehensive and easily available. In this sense, it should be said immediately that the state commission has contributed to the fight against corruption and here I would take the opportunity to say that as much as we express in our media the dissatisfaction with the state of corruption, Croatia has made the biggest step that one country has made in the past two years on corruption perception tables "Transparency International" Croatia has made for one full assessment, from 3.4 to 4.4. That's about what we'd do if we transferred it to a grade of 1 to 5, so from 2 we jumped to 3. We are not satisfied, this is not the ultimate goal, but it should be said that the great effort of all the layers of society, all the political parties and all the levels of this country, not the teeth of the European Union, has been paid because of us. So I think that's too little emphasis on these days in our media because 4.4 after 3.4 grades is a really big jump. I can take this opportunity now and say that where this progress is announced is actually wrapped in a negative omen, so we read in a circulation diary, so what's 4.4 in front of us are still countries, even in the title they say like Namibia and like Taiwan. We must not belittle any of these countries. Namibia has been a country that has been under German rule for decades. That's the former South-West Africa name, and one part under the rule of England. And we were under the rule of Yugoslavia. Well, of course those two traditions can't be compared because they're decades ahead of us and it's gonna take us a long time to reach Namibia. Therefore, let us not belittle Namibia, but neither can Croatia from 3.4 to 4.4. Also in that list says there's even Taiwan ahead of us. Taiwani colleagues and colleagues have $24,000 of gross national income per capita, if they had corruption they would never have achieved it. So we have the goal of Taiwan, it's a positive and not a negative goal. So much for the perception of corruption, i.e. the state of the fight against corruption in Croatia. It is not good to praise what we have done, and it is not good or overly critical because it also beats the blade, and that blade must never be melted. But to return to our commission's report. So the number of complaints drops, and as Mr. Leco said, it's really questionable why the number of complaints falls. On the one hand, it is probably because the whole system is in some way perfected and perfected, and probably because we are better at publishing our competition and then the number of needs for these complaints is getting smaller and smaller. So the number of complaints is now 637, so 8.5% lower than the year before. It is certain that the commission will be given a new task by the introduction of new legal rules because it will also address concessions from this year and more importantly complaints about public private partnership procedures that will be more and more secure at all levels of local and of course at the state level. What encourages once again the percentage of the solution of all complaints, it is 91% high, which means that the commission is working out everything, and what is not resolved in the explanation we see is not resolved because the complaints are not complete in its content and could not be resolved. The question that was raised here today and a year ago, it's a no-compete announcement, so on the basis of a direct contract, and that's definitely a problem that needs to be solved somehow differently. We actually know from practice, and we see from this data, that the number of direct contracts without publication is growing. What's behind them? I don't know. It should be immersed in that analysis, but the fact is that the number of complaints made on such direct contracts is very small and there should be an analysis of the causes. For example, in 2007 31 complaints were made on 3 thousand 868 of such direct direct procedures, i.e. 0.8%. Indeed, for one direct form of contract, I find it a little too low a percentage. What is high is that 31% of those statements were adopted. So it was justified. Which would have been true if all those who could have invested, but probably because of the lack of information on such direct contracts had not arrived or were unable to invest. Maybe a few words about the most common offenders of the law. Of course, on the basis of such a record, you can't tell who the most common offender of the law is because the state commission would have to know how many public procurement procedures each entity has, of course, which is not, but could also be introduced with good records, but then we have an assessment of the offenders of the law on the basis of the complaints adopted. So here's one piece of information that is worth mentioning, that among the top ten who are the highest percentage of complaints against them, therefore adopted, there is only one ministry among the top ten. It also changes the image of our breach of public procurement procedures because they are always arrows in the government, we have heard it today, and we should see what money they have at lower levels in public procurement, and with which percentage the government would see that the ratio is unfavourable for the government. It calls for a smaller amount of public procurement, and much more criticises it than those that are under a smaller increase. So among the top ten we have local administration and self-government, we have cities, we have counties, we have one city institution where out of the five complaints all five against it were adopted. I'm not going to name it because it's not right either, it may have had the highest number of purchases, so then this is just one incorrect picture, but still the fact that the ministries are here in the minority that I think it encourages, but of course we can't reduce our criticism to that level either. So law enforcement should have complete documentation of all percentages of the public procurement of individual entities. Administrative disputes have been said several times, they do not actually provide any legal protection because it lasts for two, three, four years, and the cycle of public procurement must be closed within one fiscal year, so here, and this is already proposed in the former reports, here you need to make radical changes in order for that highest degree of protection to actually be accelerated in some way. What this report should say at the end, however, is that the report has been made very correct, that it meets all the requirements laid down by law before this Commission, and perhaps we should read the assessment given to this State Commission by the European Commission, the European Community, and that assessment says: The State Commission continues to deliver solid results in resolving the complaints of the bidders, although the number of employees is less than anticipated. So we should step up the personnel commission. The government has done a lot of things, both in the fight for space and for equipment and for personnel, but here you see there is still an observation that the number of employees is not enough. Nevertheless, the state commission has been able to significantly shorten the average duration of the control procedure, this is very important because it gives confidence to each public procurement participant that they will be able to exercise their appeal rights in the short term. The State Commission has increased the transparency of its work and has improved the legal protection system in the procurement process, including the publication of two manuals, one of which is intended for contract entities and other bidders. So the Commission also has positive assessments of the European Union, so the International Community and ourselves, and therefore the MPs' club proposes that such a report be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15790	Thank you. We have two corrections. First is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15791	Inaccurately, Mr Hebrang argued when he said that Croatia was in that perception of corruption along Namibia, as it should not, I think he said that there was no need to underestimate anyone. I agree with that, and that's true, on my own, so that someone who's the same is better at something. But I think it's a completely incorrect development of a country as a whole to look at the degree of development of its former occupier. That's absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15792	Thank you. Another correction. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15793	Hebrang, a colleague, cited several incorrect allegations in his presentation. I'll just fix a few. So, first, he said that the government or the ministries are supplying resolutely for a much smaller amount. It's simply not true because the ministry has and the government has the biggest budget, the state budget and a bunch of strategic projects going right through public procurement and that's how it should be. Therefore, it cannot be said that less money and less value of public procurement are passing through the government. And the following information from colleague Hebrang is bound to be only one ministry in the first top 10. You can't compare this at all because it's three or five adopted items. So, when it comes to three or five concrete complaints for the city of Split and three received complaints for the Ministry of Justice, it is therefore not about statistics. Three or five is not statistics. It would be 20, 30, 40 or 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15794	Valuable courts are for replicas, and this corrects an incorrect quote as we found yesterday in one case. Thank you. Now on behalf of the HDSSB club is Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I don't want to talk about Taiwan, I don't want to talk about the latest assessment of the degree of corruption, but I still have to say how personally I feel about corruption. In terms of corruption in my country, it's pretty pathetic, because it's obvious that corruption has grown to a lot of reasons and it's quite certain that as a doctor where, as our people say, hips and disruptors, and especially as a lecturer at the university, and I believe that you share my opinion, I feel really miserable. I wouldn't really comment on this report. The State Commission's report on the control of public procurement procedures, of course, and the HDSSB, accepts. I'd say that's great. When you look at this report, watch out for the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the Republic of Croatia. So, no State Commission to control the procurement procedure... or maybe you should change the title so state Board of Appeals says for the control of public procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we look at public procurement through this report, then we can say that there are no problems in the Republic of Croatia in public procurement. Because almost 21,000, slightly less, public procurement has been published in the People's Newspaper. Of these 16 and a half thousand public procurement announcements and 3868 publication of direct contracts in the negotiation process without publication of calls for public competition. So if we look at this, these figures, over 20,000 publications and only 685 cases of appeal proceedings, then we can conclude that we in the Republic of Croatia, of course, have no problems with public procurement. The more about 48 cases from earlier years and 637 cases from 2007. And again, I stress, the good work of the State Commission to control public procurement procedures, because they worked within the framework of their powers and what the law gave them in power and business. So the number of cases of the state commission so the number of complaints as we can see from year to year is decreasing. On the other hand, the number of public procurement announcements is increasing. Now, the only way we can get to the conclusion that maybe they're doing good, they're doing great, and that's certainly not the case. What was unsettled 63 cases is not a problem, 9%, is not a problem because, so I would say quite justifiable, so unless the documentation was complete, of course, that the state commission couldn't even resolve these cases. Furthermore, since 622 cases 79 have been resolved, it is said to be slightly less than 13% of administrative charges. I might not agree with those who say it's small, I don't think it's a little, uh, 79 administrative lawsuits. But what's actually problematic in all of this is that these administrative lawsuits absolutely have absolutely no purpose, because the administrative lawsuit and the whole procedure of two or three years, on average, absolutely deplace any administrative action... because it is a public procurement procedure, because the funds are secured for the financial year, so a series of these things that actually deplace these proceedings before the administrative court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I expect between them and the state commission, or representatives of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, to once again point out to the relevant ministries or the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this fact. So why are we even going to have this instrument of administrative action if he doesn't have a purpose for himself? Therefore, there is clearly a need to find a second modus, another legal framework for this settlement, for the current administrative court to be reduced to maximum, for the public procurement and for the whole public procurement procedure to be dealt with, so as to enable the action referred to in this case to the administrative court to have an effect, or to resolve it as soon as possible. If that is not possible, then such a single dispute and such a single procedure in the administrative court does not really have its own purpose. I'm sorry that the amendments to the Public Procurement Act have not happened before. Especially in the part where the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures would have the power to control the award of concessions, and I am even more sorry that it did not have the opportunity or the legal authority to control a public private partnership. You know why? Due to these large investments in financial terms, when handball halls were contracted throughout Croatia according to the public private partnership model. I will only mention Osijek, here I am using the opportunity to thank the Resor Ministry and the Ministry of Science for building the hall in Osijek for 170 million kuna along with VAT and equipment. Such a contract was signed, and you know how long it took to sign a contract for a public private partnership, 843 million kuna. If we take into account the fact that, according to the model of the public private partnership, halls work both in Zagreb and Split, it seems to me also in Varazdin, which is why I say that I am sorry that here today we can't deal with the team and we can't see the results of this one-year work in the last year of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. This direct contract is a special story and a direct contract is allowed, in fact it was made possible to amend and supplement the Law on Public Procurement of October 2005 and to publish directly suitable in "The People's News" over 3,000 and 800, only 31 complaints or only 0.8% were made. 9% or 30%, almost 30%, which is a large percentage, if we take into account the fact that there are 31 complaints, the value seems to me to have been 163 million kunas, over 4 billion for a direct contract. But then I'm right, 163 million for a direct contract, and these 4 billion were in competition announcements, but for a direct contract of 163 million kuna. This may not be done to anyone, perhaps 163 million kuna is a large sum of money. But only 31 complaints, of 3 thousand 868 or 0.8%. Imagine what kind of money that is, we can only assume that. Here, 163 million kuna per 31 items, and there were 3 thousand 868 publications, direct contracts in "The People's News." What's going on, why so few complaints? I can't believe that direct contracts went so legally, and I remember here are military trucks, someone mentioned them, I remember military trucks that went through a direct contract, and even today, the question still hasn't been solved, and it should have been resolved, both because of the integrity of the Republic's president's institution, and also because of the dignity of the former and current minister, so enlightened this situation. But it's not when we talk about a direct contract it's the only case. We have small and it is regrettable that the State Commission has not found a way to indicate which of the entities that are frequent, whose competitions are often received by the State Commission. I think that this information could be found in the report, given that, as the representatives in this report say, good co-operation with other institutions with the Chamber of Commerce, with the State Audit, so if you want to and with the USKOK, I think that this information could still be found in one of the following reports, so which are the economic operators, which are units of local self-government in whose competitions the State Commission has often received an appeal. The direct contract absolutely, may be legal solutions and good, but the direct contract is certainly one of what is said to be a great opportunity for abuse. I'm just going to show you a recent example of direct contract, it's about construction work. One street in the city of Osijek for which we all feel extremely satisfied finally began to work, but this business is concluded by a direct contract and worth more than 8.5 million kuna. Was there any reason for a direct contract in Osijek? Well, it's not. That street is planned to work, the funds are secured in the budget. We in Osijek have construction firms and companies, so no reason was there for the current government in Osijek to abuse this institution and in such a way by direct contract, so with the partner he likes to conclude the business of I assure you of a far higher price than the market value of that deal. Another example, same as Osijek, again a direct contract of all and published in the "National Journal" for the purchase of some stone over 3 million kuna, and such direct contracts are in exceptional numbers. So we're going at 3 million, and then 8 million, and then that seems to be a little bit of a sum, so it's just about isolated examples in this case of a local self-government unit. And what I think is a distraction, it's that complaining about these and similar situations and cases can be interested, so no ordinary citizen can. As an ordinary citizen, for example, when I read that in "The People's News" I would first appeal and refer to the address of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. So let me get this straight. It is complex public procurement, absolutely certain that it is not so good, quite certain that there are a number of problems in public procurement manipulations not to say that I am not using some harsh word, but when we talk about this report by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, it is good, it has of course been praised for the access funds and the highest rating, as well as for its work. Therefore, the HDSSB, absolutely this report, along with, of course, proposals that I hope the state commission will accept absolutely. So, the State Commission's report on public procurement procedures in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15796	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first one's up, there's a word, colleague Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15797	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, President of the State Commission and Secretary of State. When we are discussing the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, we should consider the part-rounding of its work, in other words it acts only on complaints and in this regard we are considering this report. What the basic principles on which public procurement is based should be transparency, openness, availability and respect for such principles, then we also ensure free competition and effective spending of public money, and in fact, it is a function of monitoring public procurement procedures. It should be said that we have a special Public Procurement Office that has another one, it has another function. It is precisely because there is often talk of irregularities in public procurement procedures in the perception of the public that this is a potential area of corruption. And this is often supported by reports from the State Audit Office, which, in fact, throughout the years, is the most irregular in the area. They say, it refers to that many of those who make public procurement do not have annual public procurement plans, to share the subject of public procurement when it is almost impossible to control such purchase outside, direct contract, therefore, and some similar remarks. What is the importance of public procurement control is also some statistics. Over 43 billion kuna was spent through public procurement last year, which is more than 15.7% of gross social product for that year. The report itself states that in 2007, there were 637 complaints and public procurement procedures, and there was also a value of 4.6 billion kuna, which is just over 10, or somewhere around 10% of the total purchase. And compared to the number of procurements recorded through the Commission's procedure, that's about 4%, slightly less than 4% of the total procurement procedures. It is found in the report that complaints are in decline, the reasons may be different and certainly not that the commission was getting involved, because there are not enough elements to assess why they are, why the number of complaints is dropping. The reasons can be different, so I can also guess that this can be the reason that participants are better acquainted with the procedures to be conducted in public procurement, so better competitions, better quality competitions, but surely there are other reasons that may be less talked about, and that is that often those who participate in offers are not complaining about not getting another, in another competition work, there is probably one and the other, and it is actually difficult to give the right opinion. Out of the total number of complaints is found in the report that 43% of the cases were adopted, worth around 2 billion kuna, it is still a significant percentage and, in fact, throughout the whole period, if the commission is acting since its founding it, it has also had one educational meaning, so we heard from the presentation of fellow Hebrang, what all the commission has been doing with this monitoring of the proceedings. When I said that the State Audit Office has often referred to irregularities, especially in the part relating to the direct contract, and here it is said that in 2007, there were 3868 procedures worth 163 million kuna or one quarter of all public procurement tenders published, therefore, this is an area in which a more serious area should take place in the next period. When we say, when we analyse all the reports presented by the Commission to the Croatian Parliament in this term, then it should be said that during this term of office, she has carried out a significant first term, some have even said pioneering work as far as this area is concerned. Reports have always been assessed in quality, they have been as transparent as this is now, from year to year, the quality has actually been increasing, there have been certain and legal constraints, and this is exactly how the Commission's reports have been changing and the law has been changing since the beginning of this year, and we have had a new Public Procurement Act. We have been read here and I would like to commend the European Commission to our State Commission for controlling public procurement procedures, and we really must be satisfied with the work that it has actually done in these five years. Because it should be said that all the right years were actually the establishment of the Commission's office itself, the employment of people, the provision of funds, etc. And that is why I am asked a question about the next item of the agenda at which we will discuss the decision to resolve the president so far, the deputy president, the members of the commission and the appointment of a new composition of the Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. I am asked a question after such discussions on 4 reports and this debate today which we are having here, which are the reasons other than the political reasons for the resolution or non-confirmation of the new term of office of the President of this Commission. By listening to the presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, there is no such reason as to professionalism. So if I will quote the report well is excellent, professionally, commendation also within Croatia, and within the Croatian Government, and the Croatian Parliament, commendation outside of Croatia, therefore the European Commission. So it can't be about expertise. So it must be this political factor then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15798	Thank you very much. At 13,26, it was time to apply for individual debate. We have two replicas in this debate. First, colleague Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15799	Thank you. My replica refers exactly to the last part of my colleague's exposure. It is truly unusual and commendable that all these years we have been unanimously satisfied here that it is rare and spoke in praises about the reports that the President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement was giving us here. That's what we heard today. Nothing's changed. On behalf of the HDZ Club, hebrang says that this Commission has contributed to the speed of settlement of the case, has provided an open insight into its work, has contributed to the fight against corruption, which is the biggest cancer of Croatian society and what the European Commission points out, therefore, to the European Union Commission as a European government. If this commission had improved the legal protection system and, behold, the next item is the resolution of the President of this Commission so far and the appointment of some other people. I have to ask myself as my colleague, I guess we'll talk more about it at the next point, which is why there's such a dramatic turn in the next point? Which is why we resolve the man and the people who worked in this Commission and who, which serves everyone for the honour and especially for Croatia, obviously by their work and in conditions such as the colleague Hebrang said when there are not enough people in that Commission, contributed that Croatia can at least in one place boast that it has fought corruption. So now we're going to solve these very rare people who have contributed. What's the message? I cannot understand it in any other way than politically that for such reasons, it is changed by the people who led the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15800	Reply to the replica of representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15801	Indeed, when I asked myself this question, then I had in mind that under the new law, the powers of this Commission will be extended, concessions that we know have a lot of problems will be controlled, procedures in a public-private partnership which we also know that there are a lot of problems in view of the Commission's previous work on the led by Mr Matesic are somehow normal for me to have such serious, serious areas that should be controlled and supervised really have to work in a professional manner rather than politically similar people.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15802	Second replica of counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15803	Well, my colleague Zgrebec has apostrophe but I would especially point out that our citizens consider public procurement to be a source of corruption. And at the head of this State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a man of profession, a man who, after 5 years of his transparent work, after years of warning and giving recommendations to the Government especially to the Government Office for the Control of Public Procurement which they should do in their jurisdiction to make that control or to make public procurement themselves as transparent as possible. This place that's headed... The question now arises, so such an institution that is the first place to combat corruption. [[The speaker is not understood because of the interference in the video.]] Not jump, not bodies persecuting, but just like this. It receives support, praises and Europe for which this is a key issue and here we are all political colors and options. There's a question and colleagues here, saying it's a political shift. Well, I don't mind that those political shifts are too, but the question is that we reveal what kind of politics it is. Is this a policy that is persistent in the fight against corruption for a man who is professional, who has several published works, which in Croatia is difficult, so today specific knowledge is needed and then I see even that the government is doing something in this sense in terms of education of such officials. So, a man of rare specific knowledge and not only knowledge, but perseverance and will to do something on this plan, which we have results for, is being replaced. So what kind of message is that in the fight against corruption? Is it necessary to explain what kind of politics it is? Do we really want to fight corruption then? There, such a message is sent to rule. The truth is, why would one man be in one place all the time? But that doesn't apply to Marian Bank or to Olga Spevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15804	Thank you very much. This concludes our morning session. Continuance is at 3:00 sharp. First up is representative Ivan Hanzek. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon session work. We started an individual discussion on the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. It's Agent Ivan Hanzek's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15806	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I won't be too long, but every time I announce such a thing, then I'm fooled by this light. It's probably a shorter count on me. In fact, I think that during the stages, the presentation of representatives of clubs, and the basis of what we share in the discussions and contacts we exchange within local self-government is actually as we said in the State Audit that we also need to highlight the top professionality, co-operation of the people who do and do the job. I'm not saying this because we're getting some kind of advance in the event of a misdemeanor, but because I don't think it's sufficiently pointed out in these discussions that problems are being recorded here, but there are no cases of consultation, suggestion and guidance being given to all those in the public procurement process. I have to say, it's one of the services that are best and most sweetly called, because you'll never lose your answer. It will never happen if the answer cannot be obtained immediately so that within the appropriate time limit no guidance and guidance on how to solve a particular problem in order to avoid the procedures of unnecessary repetition, prosecution, trial or conduct of any disputes. Therefore, in every respect and personally as it is said and in the name of the club I will support this report, propose not to take it into consideration, but to accept it and wish it once again to continue in the future with such a way of working. In addition to what Mr. Josip Leko said, what is missing in considering the problem of public procurement, which we are all aware of mainly in view of the new Public Procurement Act, which is likely to cause more debate, more suggestions and suggestions for additions and changes than with the previous Public Procurement Act. And therefore once again and as head of the unit of local self-government, but also as a parliamentary representative thanks to colleagues who work in the office and who are indeed at our service who daily encounter objective, subjective or imposed problems in public procurement processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15807	Thank you very much. It's Dragutin Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15808	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that this report also writes, and what I want to say first is that I am watching this report and I read it as part of the anti-corruption action in the Republic of Croatia. I also remember the debate, but also the State Audit Report, which is also in a large number of cases, especially in the case of abstention of negative or conditional opinions, the main reasons were public procurement procedures. This report, unfortunately, could only cover part of the procurement procedures, i.e. those where complaints were expressed or lodged, as this commission is not in charge of any other control of public procurement procedures except under appeal procedure. So now what we have here is the processing of those cases where the participants of the procurement proceedings for various different reasons felt that they were violated by certain rights and filed a complaint. If these were in the last year of 637 new cases, which is slightly less than the previous years, it is a reason more so in Parliament, but I was hoping that this report would be read more seriously in the government, and in addition to this opinion of the government that we received, I expected something else. When we talk about corruption, then we publicly and professionally say that corruption can only be measured by the corruption perception index. Corruption can also be measured by the amount of euros, dollars or kuna that ends up in cloudy waters, at least in those cases and cases where it has been proved to have been by law enforcement. It seems to me that fellow Hebrang was just mentioning the corruption perception index that last year we were in 34 places per index. It seems to me that we were 41st, not 34th, so I'm allowing us to read different data sources, so we have different knowledge. But I'd bet even on coffee with my colleague Hebrang if we were in 41st and not 34th place. What's this report for? Forms, to find out through it that the people on the committee are alive and healthy and that they are doing something or that should be the basis for changing, changing the rules or changing people. If it is a form, then in order to save material for the following years, please report on the three pages in which you find that you are alive, that you are healthy and that you are working and that there are some business entities in this country that have some problems in some public procurement, because obviously your report executive authority is not interested. And the government doesn't care that you wrote in your report, because if it were interested then the government wouldn't give an opinion that there were no objections, but would come with proposals. Because they have read the chapter on the assessment of the situation in which the Commission finds, for example, that insufficient regulations governing the work and conduct of the State Commission have the Government said in its opinion that it will propose to amend the rules or new regulations. If someone in the Government had read the chapter of the administrative proceedings or the point or indent of two, in which you find that judicial procedures of control before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia take several years, the Government might say that it would propose a change of regulations or personnel, people responsible for such a situation. And they said they had no objections. This means that it will not be adopted and the government will not propose new regulations to clarify the conduct or procedural actions. So it will not help to work easier and that nothing will do to ensure that even before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia procedures do not last for more years than several months. And what I also can't understand, and I was a little excited so I took your report from last year for 2006 but also for 2005 so I compared the data on legal entities where there were the most complaints and where you cancelled the largest number of public procurement procedures. This year's top priority is the State Geodetic Authority with five cancellations of 5 complaints. Now I remind you that Šima Krasic wrote about the State Audit for this state geodetic administration. Further Croatian road Zagreb of 3 complaints, of 5 complaints 3 cancellations in last year of 5 complaints 3 cancellations. HEP, which when it gets something, not only gets toilet paper but probably something more significant in last year's report of 11 complaints 5 cancellations. A year before that from 9, 6. Croatian forests 3 out of 7, year ago 5 out of 9. They shoot like the best hunters. Always in a lot. Department of Defense, 5 out of 12 cancellations last year and a year ago 2 out of 4. Do you remember the special part of the State Audit report for the Ministry of Defence when we downloaded the secret sign that was written in the State Public Procurement Review report at the Ministry of Defence, and how did the minister show up on the State Audit report? In 2005, we're taking all the action to fix it. In 2006, we make every effort to fix it. In 2007, what are they doing now? I expect this time in that ministry to make every effort to replace a minister if he doesn't replace responsible people. The Ministry of Health and Social Care has been on the same ranking list for years. I do not claim that these mistakes that led to the annulment of public procurement by the commission have been made everywhere in order to corruption and that behind them are inevitably corrupt actions. But if the European Commission warns Croatia that we have still the most problems in the field of public procurement I don't know why we don't know for ourselves? And the government has no objection to this report and does not suggest anything. Then I am really asking myself whether there is a political will for the process or public procurement procedures or the public procurement sector we no longer change regulation because on average every 3 months Parliament changes the regulation in that area... It's about changing people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because obviously it's not the regulations, the actions and the conditions, it's the people. And not only because of this report and this Commission, there is no point in discussing them because we can point to failures, good or bad launch, we can compete politically but for so long as the state or government, the executive authority with the prime minister, tolerates that the head of HEP is the same person 5 persons and that for the same 5 years HEP is a problem in public procurement, we will not fix things. Not because he may be guilty but because he is responsible for not clearing up among those who are guilty. Because the actions are certainly not led by the first man. He's not guilty, but he's responsible. And if he's responsible for HEP and he's not doing anything, then he's guilty or responsible to that government executive who hasn't removed this guy in HEP because of it. I thought that these committees, the bodies that the Parliament has appointed, established, appointed and which, by law, have to report to us are in function not only of statistics but of consideration and responsibilities of the staff. A man's name and last name and nothing else. We can continue to receive these reports. Perhaps someone will also propose to amend a law that is very complicated, which has asked for a lot of counseling and habits but has been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia but trust me so long as the government will not say with this report that someone has been removed due to the frequency of violations of public procurement rules, and the State Commission has found that we will not go anywhere further. And we're going to talk about the corruption perception index and we're going to talk about it when and so we're going to look ridiculous in front of the people and the citizens of this country because obviously by hiding the causes through statistics, we don't have the guts to clear things up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15809	Thank you very much. It is up to representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15810	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Director of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin this debate with, on the proposal or the report itself on the work of the State Commission with our agenda. So after this point, after the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2007, and I can say it with full right because all club representatives have already spoken, everyone supports this report. All praise the work, not only the report on how it is drawn up in technical terms, but the work of the State Commission, led by this lead with Mr Goran Matesic as president of the State Commission. And the next item of the agenda is the proposal, the Government's proposal, please nicely, decisions on the resolution of the president so far, the deputy president and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the automatic selection of new leadership. That a man wonders who's crazy around here? And where do we live? And what kind of messages are we sending? I'll say it again. Four-year-old time goes by fast. No one's been subscribed to some mandates. But at a time when we are under a special increase when the fight against corruption is so loud, at least in the language of all politicians, there is something else in action, so whether we are fighting the paper fight against corruption or the real fight against corruption. So, staff, people who have success, who have confessions both in Europe and at home and all the political parties suddenly... It reminded me that there were enough of these people to change that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to know in essence that these public procurement and the area of public procurement, are an area of the greatest possible corruption. And to repeat really what citizens think, citizens believe that the area of public procurement may not be that, but citizens simply perceive the location of corruption. And those corruptions that are not corruption of blue corruption, such corruption in blue envelopes can't stop. And here, when we have now success, right through this institution that's well revived, which is a tried-out model, the best model as it is, the truth was spoken by Mr. Hebrang, from A to Z, and now he would correct me, in fact himself now may have been too much truth, but the truth must never and may not interfere. So, by submitting this report, which is evident, that for this past year there have been a little more procedures, but the appeal is getting smaller and smaller. However, the director, the president, of the state public procurement control commission, cannot dare say that this means that public procurement procedures themselves are more high-quality. That it is thus witnessed by some other institutions that have major problems and a small number of complaints, and every year a smaller number of complaints, let's say that USKOK is one of these. But it's still visible here, which is what my colleague Zgrebec was talking about, so whether these competitors, or potential complainants who would have had something to write in the complaint, are simply coping with the consequences and the consequences are very simple, not getting a new job. And this is an invitation to the institutions to persecute their own USKOK that they can't look at just formality, but almost in many acquisitions, especially in building where there are more competitors, where they get the one with a very high offer because others are even bigger and look wonders, as a rule it's not an exception, so isn't that a signal to those institutions that there's something wrong, not something but that there's nothing wrong. All those who offered higher prices suddenly agree to work as cooperatives and who knows when they were paid and whether they were paid. And in such an indirect way, in fact, the leadership of this state commission. It also makes recommendations to strengthen legal protection from the authority of government control of public procurement and records on spending of budget money, in particular because of illegal anecdications of existing contracts, they are a big, big problem for us. For God's sake, the contract was fine, but then everything we wanted and we couldn't do, is that what these people think, it's what they do, it's what they do, it's what they do, it's what they do, it's what they do, it's what they do, it's what they do, it's what they do, the supplements, the additions to that original contract, which are not really harmless, but they change the basic contract itself at all. The president also points to direct contracts without the application of public procurement laws as the most difficult form of violations of regulations and, unfortunately, it can only sanction supervision through the Ministry of Economy. So, in some ways, government not only structures are being warned directly, but individual ministries are also giving special attention to these things. Also, the President of the Republic on these issues, as a key issue in general, the transparency of the business and seriousness of a country, speaks to the contracting authorities, and these are mostly the state itself, through individual ministries, procurement, which escapes control, precisely because such order is declared secret by such contracting authorities. It's a unique system of secrecy that we have that individual bodies instead of being controlled because of what they're doing secretly, they're themselves and ad hoc, whenever they like to declare it a secret. By law, therefore, public procurement is problematic precisely by these secret acquisitions, and it is certain that legislation in this sense should be changed in such a way as to suggest that this report is also evident, Mr Matusic when he says that first of all it should be taken into account to speed up the proceedings before the administrative court, that they become hasty because there are several years of going by due to the overwork of the Administrative Court, and the Administrative Court is overly burdened precisely by the lawlessness and law of the administration. The defeating data are precisely for the state administration which the Administrative Court has issued that more than 60, close to 70% of complaints is justified, it is something that is alarming, means that rights and individuals, and also institutions, or commercial companies, are in great violation. So, by supporting this report myself and here's whoever spoke on behalf of the SDP Club can't be miraculously surprised at our proclaimed fight against corruption, it's not that this fight after the Index Action has already graduated in a way that we solve the leaders who have worked well, who have worked well, who have an impressive biography, who have specific and special knowledge, how few anyone in Croatia has, because they haven't had a chance to gain them either. So our fight against corruption will be measured by what we are really doing in the fight to combat corruption, not as much as we are talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15811	Thank you very much to my colleague Antičević-Marinović. I'm glad the atmosphere is this tolerated and in the spirit of truth that needs to be moved around this chamber. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. My colleague Hebrang first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15812	Thank you very much. In the spirit of the movement of truth with this assembly, I am correcting the quote of my colleague Ingrid who said who is crazy here, the people who have success are also changing the last sentence, we cannot miraculously surprise that we are solving people who are extraordinary. Unfortunately, Mr Matesic did not deny any incorrect SDP counterparts who claimed he was being replaced, that the government was replacing him. By keeping Mr. Matesic's dignity, I didn't want to go out with his letter, but now you've made me do it. Mr Matesic sent a letter to the Prime Minister on September 1st asking for his resolution. I repeat, Mr Matesic is seeking his solution, the government is not replacing him. We've praised him for all these five years, and we'd have praised him four more if he wanted to. I quote: "Also, Mr. President and your Government, we would like to express our gratitude for the trust and support you have given me during my term of office. I hereby believe that my work on the committee has been successfully completed, which is why I see my professional future elsewhere, and no longer in the commission, and I am not disfellowshipping the work of the state service." After Mr Matesic's behaviour, I hope he will exclude future work in the state service. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15813	Second correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15814	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, here's my colleague, I think she misstates that the number of cases, the number of cases, is reduced by the good work of the commission. I can say that's not so, because with a whole series of investors I've talked to who claim that big cities don't even want to complain, they're afraid to complain whoever's working with some big city because they know they'll never get a job again. Personally, I haven't, I've had a few bad experiences with the commission, there have been several illogical reports, but that doesn't matter. I'm just glad my colleague knows all the mayors of the big cities, so I guess it'll affect that. Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15815	Quiet, it was all tolerated, let's keep it tolerable. Next up, MP Ivo Grbić. ... No one noticed. It's being respected. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15816	I thank you, Madam Vice President, for the truth about the corruption spoken of by a respected colleague, Anticevic-Marinovic. I'd just like to tell her next. No government has ever had the political will to go all the way and create a political framework for the successful functioning of the rule of law institutions as done by this government, Ms. Anticevic. That's what certain politicians, I would say, out of opposition bothers and then this positive political framework twists and interprets it as a burden and compromise. The truth is on the other hand, which is that anti-corruption actions restore trust in the institutions of the rule of law, but they also confirm something else, which is that there are no privileged and protected. We're all equal in front of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15817	Thank you very much, fellow Matkovic. And now he has the word Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15818	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored President of the State Commission, the Honored State Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures as an independent and independent state body in which the delirious conduct of the appeal procedure against decisions taken in public procurement procedures is, I would like to recall, began with the work of the end of 2003, the basis of the Public Procurement Act and the Law on the State Commission. The report submitted provides a detailed overview of the cases received and resolved by species and structure. With regard to the state of legal protection in public procurement, there is a lack of regulation governing the work and conduct of the state commission, as well as the application of procedural provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is certainly reflected in certain legal uncertainty and difficulties in the appeal process itself. The procedure itself shall be initiated and conducted solely on the basis of the appeal lodged and no proceedings under official duty. Furthermore, there is no possible control of each stage of the procedure leading to the annulment of the entire procedure even though the injury occurred at an earlier stage. Only the duration of the procedure is not fast enough because of long-term communication with parties regarding the delivery of the documentation itself. The report also shows that there are a large number of procurement procedures in which there is never any legal protection and that are out of control. I am an administrative court procedure, although it is slow and takes years, although a small number of parties in the procedure of public procurement control decide to seek judicial protection from the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Despite these difficulties, the establishment and functioning of the State Commission, which provides legal protection, provides and allows the sanctioning of illegal proceedings, results in anti-corruption effects of legal protection in public procurement. Certainly, transparency, the public of work and the availability of communication with parties in the process contributes to the fight against corruption. The assessment of the state of supply in 2007 is very similar to the assessment of the situation from earlier years. In 2007, the shifts were made in the quality documentation for the competition, which reduced the number of complaints adopted, and also raised the quality of complaints made for monitoring the legal practice of the State Commission. I believe that the new Public Procurement Act, which has been applied since 1 January 2008, contains solutions derived from the experience, observations and proposals of the State Commission, given that the deficiencies observed and in this report are similar to those in the 2005 and 2006 reports. Therefore, I support the State Commission's report on the control of the public procurement procedure for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15819	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15820	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report we have in front of us today is significant for at least three reasons. The first and most important ones are certainly based on an estimate that over 15% of domestic gross products have passed through the public procurement system during 2007. So it's a large and therefore important segment of public money. The next reason is that the public perception of public procurement procedures, and in this, the vast majority of us agreed, is, in fact, very much related to corruption. And the third reason, the most irregularity to which the State Audit Office indicates in its reports, relates precisely to the application of the Public Procurement Act. In 2007, the Commission for Control held 685 cases, of which 637 were newly accepted, and 48 were transferred from the previous one in 2006. At the end of 2007, they remained unsolved and relocated, of course in 2008, 63 appeals cases, and the reason why they remained unsolved was that no complete documentation was completed. If you look at the number of newly received appeal cases in the last few years, then you see one tendency to reduce them. From, for example, 761 cases in 2004, over 746 in 2005, i.e. 696 in 2006 to 637 cases in 2007, making sure that there are clearly no cases related to the award of concessions, as well as cases in the area of public-private partnership. These 637 complaints that I mentioned in 2007 were made available to a total of 16 555 public procurement announcements, as many of them were in Croatia during 2007. Therefore, complaints have been made in less than 4% of cases, or to be quite precise 3.85% of cases, i.e. only every 26 publicly published purchases come for one complaint. There is an even smaller percentage of complaints made on published direct contracts in the negotiation process without calling for competition, so that percentage is below 1%, i.e. to be quite concrete 0.8%. True, when comparing the number of complaints with the number of public procurements, it should be kept in mind that the data on the number of public procurements are not complete because the state commission simply does not have full insight into all public procurements, but only those published in the public procurement notice of "National Journals". It is certain that a significant number of purchases, we all know, refuses to do so outside the public procurement system, so against the law, either in a way that divides the items of purchase and converts them into small values, whether they go to direct contracts, etc. Compared to the reduction in the number of complaints from year to year, the value of the items received is also reduced. From 7.2 billion kuna in 2004, for example, to 4.6 billion in 2007. It is safe and we can believe that these are precisely the positive trends and the merits of the functioning of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. But what worries is that the most common infringers of the Public Procurement Act, although I repeat, are relative data because we have no insight into all public procurement, so the most common infringers are the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development, but it's actually nothing new, it's all already known from the State Audit report. There are also some units of local and regional self-government and large state systems such as HEP and Croatian roads. Also, there is a major problem in administrative protection in public procurement cases when a lawsuit is brought to the administrative court against the state commission's solution. In fact, such administrative disputes over the burden of the administrative court last several years, which in fact loses the sense of legal protection because of the fact that public procurement funds are one year, or how long the budget year is. And in the end, I'm going to say, or point to one, I find that interesting information. The approved budget of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control for 2007 was €5.5 million, with 5 million actually being spent. At the same time, the State Commission, with the title of the handling fees and the title of the administrative fees collected, has made revenues of 2.7 million kuna which ended up in the state register. So this means that more than half of the cost of its operation is actually covered by the state commission itself by achieving a socially beneficial anti-corruption function. That is why, because of this primary anti-corruption action of the state commission, and we already know that it has been repeated many times that the corruption of Croatian society's early cancer and by the perception of our citizens and by the perception of the world institutions dealing with corruption, but also by reason of the European Commission's very serious objections, which is certainly an extremely important fact in these pre-accession times. Therefore, due to this anti-corruption action, further because of the creation of good legal practice by the state commission, which involves quality interpretations and explanations of the Institute of Public Procurement, and yet making it easier to act on the administrative court, whether it is because of its educational function and, of course, because of its advisory function in the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act. So, because of all this I've listed, this report is reasonable to accept and I agree to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15821	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, listening to her colleague and her report debate, I'd like to say, but listening to other colleagues. That's exactly why I've raised the line because I agree with the parts in your debate, especially in the part where you said that you're more and more going on direct contracts. So, you're doing a deal without a public competition. E co-workers, listening to more than half an hour of debate from this left, are constantly talking about ministries, state administrations, etc., bypass the consciously largest financial factor in the Republic of Croatia, which is the city of Zagreb. It is the city of Zagreb, don't laugh because I am a representative from the city of Zagreb, so I have the right to talk about the city of Zagreb and about the corruption that is happening in the city of Zagreb without talking about the violation of the Public Procurement Act. I'll only tell you one piece of information. Yeah. Why is it of holding at least... /The speech room is off. Why are you shutting me down? You won't hear the truth? That is why it is known that in the city of Zagreb there are only three companies that get a job arranged somewhere behind the curtains in a tavern of thousands and thousands of kunas. I can name you companies now, I know them, but for the sake of the public, I will protect those entrepreneurs. And please do not say that you are so aware of the situation and that you are for justice and justice when in the city of Zagreb where you create politics, where you are in power and you support corruption, bribery and everything that is "cancer" of Croatian society. [[Intruder: Thank you!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15823	The answer, ma'am, did you ask for an answer? You're not. There's another replica, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15824	Dear Mr. President, listen, my nerve says, I'd rather replicate my colleague Katica, but I won't, because I have no right, we'll talk about this later... And I agree, the very questionable price of the long meter pipe, asphalt, everything in the city of Zagreb, should be compared a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I volunteered to replicate little to my colleague Jelash because she found that the biggest infringers of the Law on Public Procurement are the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Transport and Development. I'd say it won't be like that, actually, it's a form. The biggest offender in the public procurement system is actually the Ministry of Finance because it is the Ministry of Finance that is obliged to monitor the ways and responsibility of spending on the State budget, and the funds used by the Ministry are nothing more than State budget funds. But as it seems in practice, I'll tell you on one example. So, in 2005, a state audit reveals in my city a violation of the Public Procurement Act and an ecldent violation in several million kunas, the city administration reports a man who ran the entire project, but nothing bad happened to this man but an act of being a HDZ secretary in his town, was recently appointed as a member of the financial agency's management, so, FINA, that is how the infringements of the public procurement system in Croatia are sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15825	Yeah, it's possible if it's proven. You didn't ask. Thank you. We still have one representative, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15826	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard a lot about the find, or the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in 2007, this will come as one creamworth and a summary of this complete debate. As the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is well known, the Public Procurement Act and the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Procedure have been established as an independent and independent state body in which the conduct of the appeal proceedings against decisions taken in public procurement procedures for the territory of the Republic of Croatia is in the works. Although we were more concerned in the debates today with the Law and the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, here I point out that the Commission is concerned with the introduction of only appeal proceedings against decisions taken in public procurement procedures. The report noted that in 2007, the State Commission received a total of 685 appeals cases, of which it was transferred from the previous year 46 cases with the explanation of incomplete documentation. In total, almost 91% or 622 cases were resolved and 685 complaints represented 3.8% of total procurement procedures, down from previous periods and the previous year. When observing the structure of the complainants, which was expected to be the largest share refers to companies 87% or 555 companies complained of various shortcomings in the implementation of public procurement. Of the total cases resolved in 2007, 269 complaints or 43% were adopted, which is approximately the level of the past 2006. The amount of compensation for the conduct of the appeal procedure, i.e. The Commission's income of 2 million 627 thousand kuna, representing 52% of the Commission's total revenues. The difference is of course financed from the state budget, but a total of 5 million 476 thousand kuna. That total amount is estimated to be sufficient for the work and to ensure the independence and independence of the Commission. The Commission's better teamwork and equipment certainly results in a reduction in the duration of the case resolution, so that the average number of days for solving cases, I remind myself in 2005, was 40 days, 35 days and 31 days in 2006. In particular, it should be pointed out that the anti-corruption action of the state commission that is manifested in rapid and effective legal protection, then in interpreting and helping to interpret public procurement regulations, which is extremely important and due to frequent changes to the Law on Public Procurement, then in creating and publicising concrete cases from practice and of course participation of the State Commission in the education of participants in public procurement procedures. How in the CARDS Programme, a project to strengthen the ability of the State Commission to control public procurement procedures where the partner of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures was carried out during 2005 and 2006 by the model of best practice, so will all of us, and this is also visible from this debate, MPs support the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2007 and wish them good quality and successful work in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15827	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Goran Matesic, President of the State Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15828	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to thank you first for all the praises and remarks, I'll take the remarks, I'll pass the commendations on to my commission. And thanks to all the people from the commission who actually gave this result. As for the comments on some of the items or remarks made here, I would like to say a few words, the slowness of the administrative court, the new Public Procurement Act established a provision in which the procedure before the Administrative Court is hastening. This should result in a faster completion and a strong completion of public procurement disputes. The challenge of the state commission is certainly concessions and a public private partnership. Someone mentioned the inability, the legal inability so far to process public private partnerships, so it has not been legally missing so far. So the future public private partnership is the supply of goods, works and services with a combination and some other legal transactions. There was the possibility that any public private partnership could be prosecuted before the state commission, but such a complaint did not occur. The direct contract as one of the most liberal ways of procurement, as one of the most liberal ways of procurement, is causing controversy. It is liberalised because it must be and because it is a direct contract, but the law also envisioned an extended active legislation, which means it is almost everyone, Mr. Šišljagic said as a citizen he would like to file a complaint in such a case. Looks like you could do it under this law. So the expansion of active legitimacy and the fact that a direct contract has to be published so that everyone can question it is the only possible way this way of getting can be put under control except for what we had before, giving consent in such a way of getting, but that's how we left. As for the observation that only 3 almost 4% of the total publication goes to appeal and that is insufficient, it is not really expected that only the appeal procedure can sanction and control and monitor public procurement. It's the same as saying that traffic safety is controlled only by the police. No, there are other segments in public procurement, there's a supervisory service and there's a statistical monitoring of all phenomena and there's surveillance on either side of the state audit and it's something that we should actually work on with an existing control system. Again, the controversy with regard to the most common infringements of public procurement regulations. So what we have right now is one relative indicator of what statistics are from, the definition of statistics is that that's the exact sum of the wrong data. But the moment it is possible to use statistical data in the number of purchases of each client then it will be possible to accurately express this information. Finally, I would like to say that, it was said that the quality of the procurement process, someone said so. I think the state commission said in its assessment of the state of affairs that the procedures are being seen as getting more and more high-quality water, which is normal to expect after 10 years of these regulations. And just the next report that will be related to the application of the new law should show actually good effects from all that was done in the previous one. I thank you once again for your support, your praises, and your good words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15829	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. 10th, report on the work of the State Commission to control the public procurement process for 2007. Proposer of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: A report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure for 2007 is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes; 101 votes are for, nothing abstentions and 1 against the adopted report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15832	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This is based on Article 3(1) and (2). The Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the State Commission consists of five members of which are one in the office of president, the other in the function of deputies, and the rest in the role of members of the State Commission. In the light of the provisions of Article 4, members of the State Commission shall be elected for a period of 5 years, may be re-appointed. As the President, the Vice-President and the other members, as of 16 October, were appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a session held on 17 September, the President and the other members adopted two acts. The first is the proposal for a decision to resolve the president so far, the deputy president and members of the State Commission, and the second, at the same time as the date of October 17th of the proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice president and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. In this regard, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of Goran Matesic, acting as President of the State Commission, Maria Cvrlje from the post of Vice-President, and the discharge of the duties of members of the State Commission Ante Perdic, Djanija Poropata and Gordana Horvat. At the same time, the Croatian Parliament is proposed to appoint Vlasta Pavličević to the President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, proposed by Marija Cvrlje to the Deputy President of the State Commission, and to the members of the State Commission for the Control of Procedures are proposed by Ante Perdić, Ivan Žilić and Dragica Markanovic. Since the previous term of office of the State Commission, two people have been proposing with the extension of the mandate, it is Maria Cvrlje with a proposal to act as vice president and Ante Perdic as a member of the commission. The lives of the proposed members have been given to you. It is about prominent experts, people who have made public procurement, who have designed legal regulations, who work intensively in education programmes in the public procurement system. We believe that it will contribute, at the very least, to the same level of success and effectiveness and visibility of our State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. As State Secretary in charge of Public Procurement at the Ministry of Economy, this opportunity is a useful opportunity to thank colleagues in the State Commission as well as fellow advisors in the State Commission for their outstanding and dedicated work on our joint cooperation over the past few years. In a way, as the crown of our joint cooperation, we have just today got the green light from Brussels so that we can open negotiations in Chapter 5 of Public Procurement. We've received a call to submit a negotiating position. Their work, our work, this joint work I would say is quite convenient on today's visit to that fact. It's also the result of our work together. We have a lot of work to do, ahead of us in the coming period and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to confirm that with the new composition of the State Commission we continue to work just as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15833	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15834	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia, due to the end of the five-year term of office of president, deputy presidents and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, referred to the Parliament's acceptance of the appropriate decision. The first decision of the declaratory character confirms the fact that the current members end the term of office on 16 October. The second decision appointed the president, the deputy president and members of the state commission for the control of public procurement procedures from 17 October 2008. From the attached CVs and professional references it is evident that these are candidates who have worked significantly both theoretically and practically at all stages of public procurement. Some of them practically worked in committees and met practical problems in the field. Others wrote and interpreted laws and articles on the application of these laws. Their work so far provides a high degree of security that the work we trust them will be carried out knowingly, in good time and in quality. The work we trust them with is highly demanding and economically particularly important. It is a job of top control of the supply of goods and works of all public rights entities i.e. State-owned entities owned by local self-government units, regional self-government units. And the aim of the control is to prevent the privilege of some operators on the market from harming others, preventing bribery and corruption in the procurement process, rational use of taxpayers' money. And the fourth role is not negligible since it is known that public procurement procedures by nature things are a slow role to control is and to prevent speculative investment of complaints without legal basis with a view to delaying the procedure or obtaining unfounded income. The meaning of their business in public law entities also speaks of the fact that most of the business in the economy is awarded through public procurement. We have before us a period of stronger private capital entry into the area of energy and water management, which are areas that fall under public procurement and which are suppliers regardless of what private companies are concerned. The objective of public procurement in private capital is not to remove irregularities but to require energy and other private entities to be available to all under the same conditions of the tasks they trust. We recently introduced public procurement into concessions and thus expanded the area of public procurement. It has also increased the share of business that will be entrusted through public procurement, and the role of this commission is more important to our society. The HDZ representative club supports the proposed decision and composition of the commission proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15835	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. No more reports. Eleventh, proposals for decisions to resolve the presidents so far, the deputy presidents, members, and the appointment of the new chair and deputy head and members of the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision to resolve the president, deputy president and members of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes; 75 votes for, 25 abstentions and 4 against. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a new president, vice president and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Let us please engage and vote on this second conclusion, in fact, to the motion for a decision. Let's vote? The result? I find that most of the votes are 73 votes in favour, 28 abstentions and 2 against the motion for a decision to appoint the president, the deputy president and members of the State Commission to control the procurement procedure in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15838	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. You are presented with the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment beyond the State Borders, so it is the so-called The ESPO Convention adopted in Finland, 25 February 1991, and for Croatia which has been party to the Convention since '97. A year. The Convention shall contain a general obligation to take all appropriate and effective measures to prevent and reduce and control significant negative impacts and planned environmental activities across national borders, hence the possibility of obtaining data and influence certain activities that may have a negative impact from one country to another. At the second meeting of the parties to the Convention in Sofia in 2001, there was a first amendment and addition, giving opportunity for countries outside the region of the Economic Commission for Europe to become members of the Convention. And in Cavtat 2004, additional amendments and additions were also adopted where the need to link conventions with other, multilateral agreements in the field of environmental protection and the possibility of strengthening its instruments through bilateral contracts was highlighted. These amendments and additions to the Convention that comply with the ESPO Convention shall be encouraged and better public access shall be enabled, public participation in decision-making and access to information and justice and shall be allowed by any State to participate in all stages of the Convention, hence, and at the very beginnings when programmes are planned or adopted which may have a negative impact on neighbouring countries. The obligations arising from this Convention have already been incorporated mainly in the Croatian legal system through the Environmental Protection Act, the Waste Act, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Protection of Nature, the Law on Waters and the Law on Access to Information. So, we are in line with what we have signed a good part of it and introduced it into our legislation, and this is now a ratification of all these amendments to the Convention whose parties we have since the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15839	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, President Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15840	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament held its 11th session on 16 September 2008. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the State Borders of Sofia, 27 February 2001, amending and supplementing the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the Cavtat State Borders, 4 June 2004, with the Final Proposal for a Law which was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 2 September 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. On the basis of Article 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Environmental Protection Committee discussed the final draft law in question as a home working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders was adopted in the EGF on 25 February '91. the year, and the Croatian Parliament confirmed it in '96. A year. The Convention entered into force on 10 September 1997. The main characteristic of the Convention is that it contains a general obligation for parties to take individual or joint actions of all appropriate and effective measures to prevent and reduce and control significant negative impacts, planned activities on the environment across national borders. At the second meeting of parties in Sofia in 2001, an amendment and addition were adopted, allowing countries located outside the region of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations to become parties to the Convention. At the third meeting of the Cavtat parties in 2004, a long amendment was adopted to highlight the need to link the Convention with other multilateral agreements in the field of environmental protection as well as the possibility of strengthening its instruments through bilateral contracts. Furthermore, the proposer pointed out that amendments to the Convention and amendments to the Convention bring some concepts into line with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation and Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, enabling the participation of the public of civil society and NGOs in environmental impact assessment procedures. The aim of this law is to enable countries that are not parties to the Convention to participate in the assessment of the impact of an environmental intervention at an early stage of planning its implementation. It shall be taken into account procedures likely to cause significant negative impacts across national borders, i.e. that by means of permanent or temporary activities, it will disrupt environmental stability or biodiversity of the environment. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, the debate highlighted the problem of air pollution in Brod-Posavina County due to the work of the oil refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into account the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a member of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders. A similar situation is with the project Upper Horizons that have a direct impact on the valley of Neretva. The Republic of Croatia is seeking to address this problem through bilateral agreements and agreements between the two countries, thus reducing the harmful environmental impact. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the state borders of Sofia on 27 February 2001 and to amend and supplement the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment beyond the Cavtat national borders on 4 June 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15841	Thank you. The discussion was also conducted by the Committee on Space, Editing and Construction. The chairman of the Committee, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15842	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Space Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 5th session held on 25 September 2008 the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Change and Completion of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the State Borders of Sofia, 27 February 2001, and the amendment and addition of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the Cavtat State Borders, 4 June 2004, with the Final Proposal of the Law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 28 August 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In the introduction, the proposaler's representative noted that the Croatian Assembly on Environmental Impact Assessment confirmed it over the state border in 1996, and it entered into force on 10 September 1997 with regard to the Republic of Croatia. Amendments and additions to the Convention shall be made to the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation, Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, enabling the participation of the public of civil society and NGOs in environmental impact assessment procedures. It shall also be permitted for each State to participate in all stages of the evaluation including the preparation of the Protocol, the establishment and participation in the work of the bodies of the Convention and the submission of the implementation and evaluation of environmental impact reports at the level of programmes, plans, strategies and legislation. Amendments and additions to the Convention allow countries outside the region of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations to become parties to the Convention to allow each State to participate in all stages of the evaluation and extend the contribution of one Convention containing a list of activities for which environmental impact assessment is carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Convention. It is pointed out that the obligations arising from the provisions of the Convention are incorporated and the existing legal system of the Republic of Croatia by the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Waste, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on the Protection of Nature3, the Law on Waters, the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, and the Law on the right to access to information. The Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the state borders of Sofia, 27 February 2001 and the amendments and additions to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across Cavtat State Borders, 4 June 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15843	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15844	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements and the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the state borders, this refers to Sofia in February 2001 and Cavtat in June 2004. I'd like to say that the Advocacy Club and the SDP's representative will support the adoption of this law. The Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders, adopted in the Finnish city of Espoo in February 1991, is an extremely important convention because it strengthens the role and importance of the international context as well as the participation of domestic and foreign public in decision-making processes on, by environment and nature of extremely important projects. In this respect, the addition and the changes to this through the city of Espou of popularly called Convention, which are heading towards strengthening the role and importance of international cooperation and cooperation in the decision-making processes on projects that have a potentially significant negative impact on the environment, must be welcomed and assessed positively. And the amendments and additions that are covered by this Bill proposal, and which we are talking about here today, have just come in handy with qualitative changes. I remind the meeting of the parties to the 2001 convention in Sofia that adopted a Bulgarian proposal allowing countries outside the region of the Economic Commission for Europe to become parties to the Convention. If we adopt this bill and I am sure that we will and will ratify this extremely important conclusion that no doubt increases the importance and importance of the Espo Convention in the international context. Since I participated as an employee of the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the organisation of the 3rd convention held in June 2004 in Cavtat, I am extremely pleased to have the opportunity to participate today in the ratification process of these amendments and the addition of the Convention. I consider these Cavtatic amendments and additions to the Convention extremely important because they stress the importance of connecting the Espo Convention with other multiple foreign agreements in the field of environmental protection, strengthening the instrument of the Convention through bilateral contracts and, of course, extends Annex 1 which contains a list of activities involved in the environmental impact assessment process in the cross-border context. In other words, cautatian amendments and, or additions to the Espo Convention, this Convention has been brought into line with so-called ‘the Convention’. The Mahus Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, and also allows for any State other than a party to the Convention to participate in the work of the body of the Convention which also strengthens the international but regional importance of this Convention. How? By allowing these amendments to countries other than parties to the Convention to engage in cross-border environmental impact assessments at an early stage of planning for the implementation of such a project and thus to have a positive impact on the negative impact that would have on the environment on one or some projects or projects both in a country where the project is implemented and in countries where the project could be affected. In the SDP Club, we believe that being a party to this Convention speaks of the maturity and responsibility of the state towards the most important resource of today's, healthy and preserved environment. An environment that is not understood as borderline bounded by some country but as a common common common wealth of the region and even wider planet Earth. It is precisely this fact, and given that the parliamentary procedure will soon show up in Croatia's Energy Development Strategy, which in the last few months, especially in the last month, has been extremely wordful in the Croatian public, we believe it is extremely important that today this bill is also spoken of in this context, in the context of consistent compliance with the conventions that we ratify in this House of Commons. The responsibility and political maturity of a country is not only measured by beautiful international gestures, such as without doubt and support for these amendments and additions to the Convention but also by the real desire of the primarily ruling political elites to fully respect what we ratify. The willingness of the ruling party to do so will be visible very soon if we adopt in the Parliament a proposal for an energy strategy on which there have been so many words lately. I remind myself that senior government officials, and here I think of the Prime Minister, but even more of the vice-presidents of the economy in the context of the energy strategy, spoke mainly of several key projects on which the strategy will be based, namely: the nuclear power plant next to Erdut or possibly somewhere else in Croatia, the project by Adria, which implies a reversible JANAF pipeline, a gas pipeline project and LNG terminal on the island of Krk. I stress all these projects enter into the list of activities of Appendix 1 of this Bill, which ratifys amendments and complements the ESPO Convention, which means that, apart from the green light of the domestic public for the realisation of these, the Republic of Croatia will have to get a conditionally said green light from the foreign public. And let's not kid ourselves that won't be easy if we keep in mind the fiercely long-standing opposition of the Republic of Hungary to the realization of the HEP hydropower plant Novo Virje or the traditional fierce opposition of the Austrian administration and the public to the realisation of nuclear power plants. In view of Austria's commitment to the closure of Krško's nuclear power plant for years, it will certainly not be a mild welcome to announce the construction of a nuclear power plant in Croatia. The announcement of the construction of a nuclear power plant in Croatia will not be positively responded by neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, as far as I know, is still not a party to the Convention, in accordance with the amendments to the Cavtat Convention, has the possibility of actively engaging in the environmental impact assessment process on the possible construction of a nuclear power plant in Croatia. I hope that the Republic of Croatia, and I am primarily thinking about the executive power, will take seriously the obligations arising from this international agreement, as well as from the amendments and additions to the convention that we are discussing today, and that in the decision-making process, these extremely important projects, other than the Croatian public, will include the public of neighbouring countries and will truly take care of the public's views. I believe that if the government does not do so or if it does so only in order to satisfy the form of civilization or democratic standards but not their meaning, it could make the country's international position significantly more difficult in this extremely sensitive process of Croatia's integration into the European Union. Although during the debate on this bill on the parent board, the problems of the population in Brod-Posavina County caused by emissions from the refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the disaster that the eco-system and the Neretva valley economy would have caused by the realisation of the project "The Upper Horizons", which the SDP has repeatedly warned the Croatian public and the ruling over the past few years, the fact is that the Espo Convention implies reciprocity and that it does not serve only so that we would have some impact on decision-making on risky environmental projects in our neighbourhood, but also that our neighbours would have an impact on such projects in our country. It is this reciprocity that is the most important quality of the Espo Convention, a huge democratic and civilizational step because it recognises that the environment and nature and the health of the population and animals do not know the state borders. We hope, therefore, that when the government develops an energy strategy, it will take serious consideration of how plans for the implementation of certain energy projects and, in the context of the Espo Convention, will reflect on the Croatian international position and good neighbourly relations. We also hope that the Government will benefit more seriously from the instruments that allow the Espo Convention to protect the most important Croatian national interests, and there is no more important interest in protecting the environment and nature and the health of the population, i.e. that it will participate significantly more effectively and actively in the decision-making processes on projects that have or may have a major negative or potentially significant negative impact on the environment, and thus the health of people in Croatia, which are being implemented beyond the Croatian borders. Unfortunately, we have warned several times in the SDP, especially in the context of the realization of the above horizons. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case until now. Perhaps the Government is more effective in this regard incentivising the amendments and additions to the convention contained in the law we are discussing today, and I repeat, in this hope, we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15845	Thank you very much. Here, we have one correction, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15846	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that the government has so far not cared about the project "The Upper Horizons", and it is entirely incorrect to assume that the SDP has warned something. Four or five years ago at the National Council for Water, chaired by today's President of the Croatian Parliament, and then Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Luka Bebić opened the topic on this very National Water Council. Unfortunately, you did not follow clearly what was happening in the area at the time, so after a couple of years you reacted and began to talk about the upper horizons. But the National Council followed closely and spoke to neighbours, partners and the problem and protected Croatian interests as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15847	Thank you. This is an extremely important thing, and it is true that the issue of the horizon has been raised, etc. and not only yesterday, but much earlier than it was not known to the Croatian public. But I still believe that these things, regardless of who first said, who should not be put into the public eye, that I fully agree with my colleague that this should be completely transparent and in terms of energy to say strategy for the future and everything to open it to the Croatian public and, of course, we will also hear the echo of our neighbours thinking about it. So, I'm sorry for this little intervention. But I wanted to say that this is such an important question, that nobody really disputes the importance of it, and I think that there should really be a public debate that will be completely free, where all those who want and who have something to say about it will be able to express their opinion, and then finally we will bring that strategy. In connection with this item of the agenda, I think that for now we will remain within the framework of this Convention and supplement the Convention and continue the debate. And I apologize once again for having to do this, I didn't have to. But here, I found it necessary to say that. Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15848	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed this proposal harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, taking into account in particular the general signs of environmental protection and all that arises in the interest of Croatian citizens when it comes to not only the protection of the environment, but their everyday life and life and the health of every citizen. When it comes to this proposal, it should be stated in the first place that the environmental impact assessment across national borders implies forecasts on how the environment could change if individual procedures can be implemented that could have an impact on the environment of another country. We've heard here and here now that we're also directly hit by some neighbors who aren't members of the convention. The assessment is, in fact, the most effective when the process starts early enough, and that means that it would start at those times when anything that could potentially pose a potential danger to the environment could be avoided in time and that the assumptions of effective action could be created, i.e. that the danger to the environment of neighbouring countries would be reduced to what we call the least possible measure. Otherwise, this convention of assessment we heard from previous discussions already impacted the environment across state borders was adopted in Espo, Finland in 1991. The Croatian Parliament confirmed it on 19 April 1996 and has been in effect since 1997. Special attention should be paid to environmental factors or factors, as we have just said earlier, as I pointed out in the early phase of the decision-making process on planned activity. Applying and assessing environmental impacts primarily as means of improving the quality of information, as this quality of information is firstly the one that can produce the most environmentally acceptable decision in order to reduce any potential negative consequences that may result from a specific project. The first amendment to this Convention to which all countries of the world can become parties to this Convention was adopted in 2001. The Cavtat meeting also invited all other countries, regions that could speed up the ratification of the said amendment. So far, the amendment has been ratified by 11 countries and the European Community did so in January 2008. This second amendment, which was adopted in Cavtat, should also say that it was accepted as such, or ratified by eight countries and the European Community which did the same thing as before in January 2008. Otherwise, this proposal that we are talking about today covers different activities and actually refers to different content. I'll just mention some that are very important. They also refer briefly to oil refineries, nuclear power plants and other reactors, chemical plants, highway construction, fast roads, pipelines, oil transport and so on. These large dams, tanks and the like, decommissioning large areas, wind parks etc. We've heard that even here from previous exposure that we have some problems too. They primarily refer to the Ship-Posavina County for air pollution for oil refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we know that our neighbour Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a member of this Convention. The same applies to the project “The Upper Horizons” we heard about, but here we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to solve this problem through bilateral agreements and agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we hope that this will be resolved to mutual satisfaction. What stems from this Convention, i.e. the characteristics or characteristics of this bill, is otherwise whether or not. They enable countries that are not parties to the Convention to participate primarily in an assessment of the impact of an environmental intervention at the earliest stage, as we have said, to plan its implementation can also participate in taking into account procedures likely to be presumed to be those that will cause negative influences across national borders. So that possibility is extremely good for everyone. In addition, this bill contributes to the development of a system of timely environmental protection from the significant negative impact of some of the activities in the country on whose territory activity is foreseen. So there we must also be very careful. However, these features also give rise to certain obligations imposed and resulting from the provisions of the Convention and they are incorporated into the existing legal system of the Republic of Croatia and so far it is known that they are also covered by the Waste Act and on spatial planning and construction, the Nature Protection Act, etc. In order to achieve better and better quality conservation of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, we of the Croatian Democratic Community Club consider the adoption of amendments to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment justified and we will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Environmental Impact over the State Borders by an urgent procedure, primarily knowing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do as it has done so far in the interests of Croatian citizens and in the interest of environmental protection and Croatian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15849	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15850	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, on two or three occasions, someone mentioned Ship-Posavia County so clearly I can't stay like this without saying something about this proposal for a bill to confirm the amendment and supplement the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. I'd cut it short on Espo, Sofia, Cavtat, the cross-border ecological convention, even though it's long. All that has been said so far in previous speeches here behind this speaker, clearly that, I would say positively and well for the Republic of Croatia. We need to know that out of 21 counties only Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Požeko-Slavonska are not border counties. All others are border counties, so since this convention refers to cross-border environmental problems, I would say, then Croatia is actually an ecological area, i.e. the subject of this convention. A little bit of me in this introduction, state-of-the-art evaluation, etc. I think there's too much English in our streets, in our cities, in the media and in our public voices. It can be used instead of decision our word decision can be used which is perfectly appropriate and I don't think it makes any sense like this nomotechnical writing, it can be made by decision and decision, if it should already be clear to everyone that it's a decision, a decision, a decision, a second or a decision, a third, whether it can be a decision 2 and a decision 3, just so much in connection with this text, is it? When we talk about the very content of this bill, then when we see this contribution with a list of activities, what it all applies to and what it can damage the ecological balance in the Republic of Croatia, I can say just that because I said that only the city of Zagreb and the two counties are not border counties. Then we'd go from first to last this point 20, almost as if we'd simply set this convention up for Slavonia. As there are these "Upside Horizons", I would say there are both upper and lower horizons, i.e. the north and south, exactly this horizon, on the horizon is the refinery, the great refinery in the Bosnian Ship, we can say that there would be no advertising... Is, which should or should already start entering production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking air pollution here. Let's just say, it's not just air pollution, it's about polluting the Sava River, so it's about water pollution because we're good, we remember the older ones how oil stains were swimming along the Sava River at a time when the refinery was working full-powered in that country called SFRY. A lot of swimming, yeah. Especially the back. Thank you for your support to Mrs. Ingrid. When I was in a nearby village the other day, I could say in particular to the kiwi, then I was warned by the locals that there was an explosion of gravel and sand on the Bosnian side without any, outside of the law, without any order, and that it would be a complete violation of that, I would say the waterway and the Sava River as some kind of ecological river, or a river that would, in ecological terms, represent a lot for the Ship-Posavina County that runs 150km in length. Fishing on the Sava on the other hand is also allowed, what our law prescribed, the ban does and some special stakes, it over on the Bosnian side is done entirely daily. Even local hunters say that there are no more birds on our side in those deserts and bars because over in Bosnia, the invitations are used personally and I don't know what the invitations are, I'm not a hunter, but here you can see how the ecological balance of those wet deserts and bars that are next to the Sava River on our Croatian, Slavonian side is being disrupted. And if we go in line as I said, number 1 of the refineries, here's the Bosnian Ship, number 2 of the nuclear power plant as we see and the lobby, to say atomic, or nuclear and responsible persons in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it doesn't matter to me how to install a nuclear power plant in Erdut or besides Erdut. So, with the nuclear power plant, there must always be a nuclear waste storage facility. Therefore, in points 3 (a) and (b) we also have that. Large plants for the production of cast iron and steel in half the town of Slavonski Brod within the borders of the former factory "Djuro Đaković" exist left of heavy metals. Furthermore, there is a car wash in the centre of Slavonski Brod. So, simply as if we've re-painted all these contributions with a list of activities just for this fourth time mentioned Brod-Posavina County, i.e. the entire region of Slavonia and Baranja. We also have a pipeline of gas and oil. Complicated chemical plants, asphalt bases are also owned. Large dams and tanks, we have a container of ammonia in a freezer in a Slavonic ship that's already been leaked two or three times already and has been declared alarmed for it. The production of paper, cardboard is also available in Andrijavci in Brod-Posavina County. The extraction of stone also has, unfortunately, he or she doesn't know himself either, in Pocrcarl as I asked the government's representative, there's a miner named Calcite of special ore value. There is still no extraction, although the concession has been issued, I can say freely to the group, not to the Brod-Posavia County. The extraction of oil in Djeletovci, the exploitation of oil, is point 15, so I'm not talking about chickens, poultry, pigs' farms, etc. It is simply to tell me Slavons and Barans that we cannot and cannot accept and fully support a convention like this which would actually be one, let me say a prerequisite so that there is no problem with our neighbours, whether it is environmental pollution on our part or the opposite, or the one that is beyond the borders of our country. It is clear that good neighbourly relations should be maintained with neighbors for reasons like this that can be really difficult to disrupt the ecological balance. That's why I think personally for the HDSSB club that when the traffic light works, I'll be in green, so yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15851	Thank you. Correction Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15852	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct the inaccuracies of HDSSB counterparts who said they are in favour of a nuclear power plant in Erdut. Since that's simply not true, it's a lie and part of it I'd say cheating to the public. So no one from the government has publicly supported or decided to build any nuclear power plant in Erdut. What exists only at this time officially is a commissioned strategy from professional institutions, i.e. where our most innovative scientists are involved and who have proposed different alternatives within this strategy, however, none of them has been determined or there is a view in the sense of building a nuclear power plant in Erdut. PRESIDENT: The strategy will be held in the public debate again, everyone will be able to make known about who wants it, so let's not open these issues today. It's Mrs. Mariana Petir's turn on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15853	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment beyond the national borders of the so-called The ESPO Convention was adopted in 1991, and the Croatian Parliament confirmed the Convention in 96, and it came into force in 1997, which means that Croatia has already had a good experience in implementing this Convention and, in that sense, I must commend both the competent services and officials of the Ministry of Environmental Protection who have been concerned about the implementation of this Convention since the beginning. The Convention shall, of course, contain the obligation of parties to take individual or joint actions of all appropriate and effective measures to prevent, reduce and control significant negative impacts of planned activities on the environment across national borders. The aim of the proposal for this law is to enable countries that are not parties to the Convention to participate in the assessment of the impact of an environmental intervention in the early stage of planning and its realisation and we in the HSS support such provisions. But we also want to give clear attention here to the problems that Croatia faces because it often happens that our neighbours do not respect this Convention, regardless of how they ratified it or have not even joined the Convention, so in their procedures in space and in the environment, which will have a cross-border effect or not inform us. We in HSS for several years expressed opposition, i.e. opposition to the construction of the Novo Vira hydropower plant. But if we are objectively talking, it is certain that Croatia has spoken to its neighbours in respect of the ESPO Convention and that it is true that the Hungarians have vetoed the construction of the Novo Vira hydropower plant, although we ourselves have had enough arguments as a state to withdraw such a single proposal. What is significant from this example and from a series of examples that I will specify is that Croatia really respects the ESPO Convention and that it is serious and therefore it is not weird that Croatia expects our neighbours to behave in accordance with such practices, but also with the rights resulting from the ESPO Convention. And in addition to this example, Novo Vira hydropower plant, Croatia has applied the ESPO Convention in many other important projects. When it comes to the Kamenolom "Plovania" in Bujam, it has applied the ESPO Convention towards Slovenia. The Hungary-Beli Manastir-Osjek border highway with Bosnia and Herzegovina has implemented an ESPO convention towards Hungary. State road Rijeka-Rupa we have implemented the Convention towards Slovenia. The Marica and Katarina gasfield with its natural gas pipelines, that's when we spoke to Italy. The Ivan A gasfield with its natural gas pipelines, we spoke to Italy again. State road Dragonja-Buje we spoke with Slovenia. The rash to defend against the large waters of Varazdin-Svibovec-Bružbinec, we spoke with Slovenia. On the other hand, Slovenia is building hydropower plants on the Sava without consulting Croatia, and it is quite clear that such procedures have a direct impact on Croatia especially in Zagreb, especially in Sisak-Moslavina County, especially if God does not give rise to a flood on Lonjsko Polje. The recent tragedy that occurred during the rafting on the Sava, on the yet unfinished dam of the Blanca hydropower plant near Krško in Slovenia, which left 13 people dead, raised the question of how it is possible for such a hydropower plant to be built at the border with Croatia, and that Croatia was not included in the process of assessing the cross-border impact on the environment, regardless of the two Member States of the ESPO Convention. In the debates that we often have with our neighbours Slovenia around the Piran Bay, it seems as though the Sava River has remained in the second plan, so there is no great interest in what Slovenians are building hydropower plants and what is currently being prepared urban documentation for the construction of two new hydropower plants Brežice and Mokrice, two last in a series of stream power plants on the Sava River towards the border with Croatia. Has anyone ever predicted that construction works planned for future hydropower plants will be reflected, for example, on Krško's nuclear power plant and flood safety in the lower Sava, i.e. in Croatia. Slovenians should certainly coordinate their plans with us and take care of road, rail, tourist infrastructure in the Sava Basin. If they did not do so, it is high time that Croatia as a party to the ESPO Convention itself took an interest and requested inclusion in the process of assessing the cross-border environmental impact as we did when, for example, it was an actual case with a nuclear power plant in Hungary that Hungary did not inform us of, but was found out through NGOs from Austria and then Croatia intervened. Speaking of the Sava River, we should certainly mention the question of the refinery in the Bosnian ship which is increasingly burdening the Sava River, but which is also a serious problem for air quality and for the population in Brod-Posavina County, and I think it should be dealt with urgently. One of the disputed projects already mentioned is the project of the upper horizon behind which Bosnia and Herzegovina stands, i.e. Republika Srpska, which is not a signator of the ESPO Convention, and accordingly is not obliged to include Croatia in the cross-border environmental impact assessment, but in any case through this bilateral co-operation between Croatian waters and services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that other ministries should be more actively involved because it is a project that is a mathematical project to build energy projects, the accumulation of a system of tunnels that would lead the water from the Neretva stream into the Tribišice River. Water translation from Neretva will cause terrible environmental consequences in the lower course of Neretva, and the south of Croatia and the good part of Herzegovina could be left without drinking water. The basis of the project is that underground water flows across three rivers in Neretva and translates into accumulation... and two more batteries that should be later built. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a consequence of this project, its implementation is the disappearance of the Hutovo mud reserve, the destruction of Neretva, which is the blood vessel of the entire region, the drying of several smaller rivers, and the conversion of the occupier and capilin region into the desert. It would therefore be extremely important through the bilateral cooperation Croatia is developing with its neighbours, helping them to sign and ratify the ESPO Convention as it is important not only for their own sake, but also for our own sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15854	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15855	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am particularly pleased, Mr. President, to have you preside over this point, but I am sorry that there are no ministers here and Mrs. Secretary for the reason that I will speak precisely about our role, the role of the Government in this and similar conventions. Namely, immediately I will say HNS has no objection, not one word, not a single letter on this law and we will support it, but we have very much against the way in which the Republic of Croatia and its Government and this Assembly use this and similar conventions to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I'd like to talk to you I would like to thank my colleague, Petyr, who is just a matter of principle and a part of the subject. But I'm not talking about our neighbors and their failures, I'm talking about us and our failures. I have told Mr Matusic countless times as head of our delegation at the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly that it would be very good to meet with other delegations sometimes, to coordinate our performances. I believe I am deeply convinced that once we cross the borders of our country, we are no longer peoples or HDZs or SDPs, we already have one common interest in protecting the clear interests of this country and I am deeply convinced that we should work and I think we can do much better. I'll give some examples, I won't talk about people, because it doesn't matter if it's this or that government, this or that minister, this or that representative of the Croatian government, but that we can and need better. About two years ago, I attended a conference in a small town near Venice and discussed the protection of the Adriatic. In the organisation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Environment Committee had its meeting right there, and I attended the meeting. Representatives of the governments of all Adriatic pool countries were also invited and a representative of the Croatian government came. The Italians came in an extremely strong composition, Slovenians also, Minister of State for Environmental Protection, representatives of major NGOs came, especially the Italians were numerous, representatives of all their delegations also came to the UN, to the EU, to the Council of Europe, and you can imagine how orchestrated, very coordinated they spoke against everything that was happening, but on the eastern coast of the Adriatic. ... the bay, the tuna farm, the wastewater pollution and everything possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not a word of how the Po River pollutes the Adriatic, not a word of air contamination from northern Italy, etc., etc. But what happened at that conference. A government official came with a pre-prepared speech and read it in a rather humble English language. There was a press conference this afternoon. The government's representative didn't come, there were no translators. Slovenian Minister, Slovenian State Secretary, why... The perfect English language answered questions and protected their interests clearly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That wasn't good. And the arguments are all colleagues and colleagues on our side, on our side. Instead of us sensitizing NGOs, instead of us making the media clear, even Italian. Our arguments are so strong that there's no reason not to bring them together once a year, twice a year and not to talk to them. International organisations are the foundation of a field action plan. As a great success, the Italians presented what they managed to push into the action plan, which is that all Mediterranean states must reduce sea contamination by 50% over 10 years. So, Italians from some 80 units to 40 units, Croats from 20 units to 10 units, Albanians from 4 units to 2 units, and let's say that the limit of damage to the sea, flora and fauna is 20. The Italians will still be twice above the border and severely damage the environment, but no reaction, no spotting clear interventions. I have to admit that at that meeting I was very naughty the other day, I answered, and my intervention went on to make fun of my colleagues from Italy. I first warned them that it would be good to first clean up in front of my yard, that the contamination and acidic rains that fall in our mountain Kotar destroy our forests do not come from Montenegro with southern winds, but from another region. Also when it comes to the contamination of the sea, Croatia is no matter how much resources we have in the units of local and regional self-government we have purifiers in Pula, both Opatija and Rijeka and everywhere we have installed them, we have tried. It is not recognised, but they are sneaking out clearly what they are doing, that every satellite footage will show that 40 percent of the Adriatic is, on the other hand, completely destroyed biologically, but we are silent. We don't use the media, we don't use government organizations as a means to win that battle. That's why my appeal colleagues and colleagues are really trying to coordinate our performances better in the future. Both colleagues in the Council of Europe and in the OSCE, both NATO and all organisations where we are represented as parliamentarians, and I pray also to the representatives of the Government, that I have been on one other line at least 15 times with the same government representative in 15 meetings that person has never opened his mouth at that session, never. I think if he gets a diary, I have an obligation to prepare and speak. Unfortunately, I'm saying what I think is necessary. It would probably be even better and better quality if we came up with our performances together if something hadn't been missed. That I don't speak one thing, another something quite different, in another session. Therefore, it is our great objection regarding how these and similar conventions are used to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15856	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Agent Dino Kozlevac's turn in this individual debate. Here you go. He gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15857	President of the Parliament, Mr. Luka Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15858	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I truly believe that this item of the agenda is indeed, and I would say both teachingly and all that is open today in this debate, something that is very important, something that requires the attention not only of parliamentary representatives and government, but of the general Croatian public, and therefore I will also give my contribution to this debate a few words. Namely, both Mrs. Holy, and Mrs. Petir, and Mr. Doric, they set a series of examples where we are actually interested and that there is not enough coordination, nor the use of international conventions and other legal acts that we bring ourselves to ensure in one effective way the protection of ours I would say the full meaning of these words of national interests. In fact, Mr Matušić mentioned that we had spoken more earlier, let's say, at some conferences and contacts in talks with our colleagues from other neighbouring countries. The question of the above horizons, i.e. The left tributary of Neretva, which has been a problem for decades. So, the problem occurred in the seventies when there was a rerouting of the tributary to the left side of Neretva, so the left bank of Neretva towards the accumulation of Trebišnica and the use of the hydroenergy system "Trebišnica". What did that mean? That meant a weakness in the flow of sweet water. So change from left to left at all. The transfer of huge amounts of water so that the feeding of these sources on the left bypass is greatly reduced. What did that mean? This meant that all of our rule by billions and billions before the dinars and kunas are now being questioned by the saltwater breach upstream of Neretva, because the pressure of the sweet water prevents saltwater from entering the canals, etc. that there is no reluctance and return of salt through capillary drive into the upper horizons of arable land, where we have invested huge billions for melioration. This means that the entire Neretva Valley is in danger, so when I mentioned in Sarajevo with three members of the presidency that problem, then no one reacted until I said that saltwater had reached Capljina. And then when she got to the Chaplin, it's like now it's a problem. And the sooner she was up to Metkovic, that's not the problem, is it? And of course Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a signator of this convention, and what I know of some, I don't know exactly what it is, which it isn't, but mostly because all our warnings have been, have come across a deaf echo... Mrs. Petir spoke of the construction of hydroenergy facilities upriver along the Sava. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one is asking or not taking into account the consequences of the downriver if any procedures occur. It's just such a formalist maybe notice and they're doing their own... We are surrounded by the possibility that in this sense we are threatened not only through the hydro system but what Mr. Doric was saying we know where these acid rains come from? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's on the mountain cotar. They don't come from Albania. Not even from Montenegro. They come from the southwest where they always come from. So I think this one, I can now give a few examples. It's no use. In principle, I'd like to say. These are the things that require a deep first knowledge of the situation and the consequences that can be caused. And secondly, to arm ourselves not only with knowledge of these energy sources, but also with the possibility of exploiting the hydro system, the rivers, and so on, but to see the consequences of our future. Because if we're talking about an energy strategy right now, we're setting it 20 years ahead of what we're going to do. So we determine the fate of our children and grandchildren. This requires a full and public debate on all aspects and all the opportunities we can use. And solar energy and wind and coal and gas and oil and nuclear energy. So everything should be put on the table. Everything needs to be put on the table, that's what to think about and finally bring this one, bring that strategy. But what I respect as a warning to all our colleagues we must use our rights in terms of what others are doing. As they will also be determined on our direction and policy of building individual energy capacities, so we have the right to ask how their installations, how their potentials will be used and how much this will reflect on Croatia. Croatia is one geographical area extended and in some way, as I would say, extended and extended, it has been subject to these possibilities that incorrectly as this was to direct the left inflows of Neretva into another system is challenging the entire one, one future of one end. And not only Croatia, but as I said and upriver worse than the border and so on. So this synchronization, this good knowledge of each other, can certainly be somewhat of a dam, and unless it's the only thing that doesn't happen to us in the future that might be far more drastic and worse consequences than we can predict today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15859	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, here we have an amendment to the Committee on Legislatives so that we can, we accept it so that we do not need to have a special conversation. It's a technical amendment. I thank you first and foremost for the support you have given to the adoption of this law and the importance that you give to this once cross-border impact of the system on the protection of the environment of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that this convention that we have signed, these are only amendments that allow countries to have more influence than they have so far in this cross-border cooperation or influence. We also have obligations and we have and we have rights to this convention. All that the esteemed HDSSB representative listed are mostly ours, our facilities that we should actually inform neighbouring countries, but since the convention is related to plans and programmes with projects being developed, it is not our obligation now. But it's clear everything we're going to build and build we're going to have to inform our neighbouring states. What I would like to say to my distinguished representative, Mirella Holly, is that we will take this seriously, and we take it seriously. We're serious. There have been a lot of speeches about a number of projects that Croatia has participated in or has not participated in. I must tell you that let's say an example of LNG when we mentioned our LNG that we're going to build now the Republic of Italy has two LNG terminals in the Gulf of Trstian “off short” terminals. They informed us of their plans neatly. A joint committee has been established and our representatives are involved in an environmental impact assessment. We've got all the paperwork. I must also inform you that we are in the process of cooperating with the Slovenian side about the construction of the hydropower plant on the Sava River. And for a long time now with all the data we've given a series of objections. They responded to a lot of remarks, and we gave our terms under which conditions it can be done. I'll gladly give you our remarks on, on the insight. So it's not the point that the Slovenians are working without our participation. Because the problem is that one day when someone builds any kind of hydrocentrale and builds a dam on a river then the further flow of that river comes into question. We have big problems at Drava, on the Drava River, and therefore this one, our cooperation or dispute with the Hungarian side of opposition and Virje 2 is, in fact, a threat to the flow of the Drava River and we have a great decline, in Slavonia we have a great reduction of groundwater. We're having trouble with the oak, with oak forests that must be on the water. We have a problem with agriculture. As far as the Sava River is concerned, so are ours, our predictions that there will be a hydropower plant that should be in that series. Whether and when we build it we do not know, but that the Slovenians are building the fact is and they are obliged to stick to those, those conditions that should enable safe work, safe flow of the Sava River in the lower part. Dear Representative Doric, what you said is and may not be the subject of this convention, but the fact is that we cooperate or try to cooperate through, and through the Mediterranean Action Plan and through a trilateral commission with the Italian side. I don't know where you are, where you were present. I wasn't at any of your 15 meetings, nor was I at the time when someone just read something. But that this is a serious thing to protect the Adriatic and that we are trying very hard to improve the situation on the Adriatic, and this Adriatic project that we are building, our wastewater treatment device. Unfortunately, these devices you mentioned are only the first degree. We have to build them up, but here we go. And we will give everything that we have of ourselves and all our research so far shows that the threat of the Adriatic Sea, I'm just talking about this latest report on the quality of the beaches, shows that the Adriatic is not so threatened by our activity, but that it is just threatened by the river by which it brings and causes and the flowering of the sea and all that it is. Clearly, Mr. President, I thank you for your contribution. This is what you are when you pass the Environmental Protection Act when we also refer to this importance of cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I can't tell you is that we're working together from all these examples you've given that's the Bosan Ship Refinery. We sent a letter to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Republika Srpska, we tried through the Federation, and now we have last sent a letter to the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which actually represents Bosnia and Herzegovina at international sessions on environmental protection through one of our state secretaries. So, at the level of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no Ministry of Environmental Protection, and with Republika Srpska, we have not been able to get to the point that they would be willing to give us any information about the operations being done in the Bosnian Ship Refinery. This is what we try to learn from other things and work hard and we will certainly manage to get information and influence it. All these, all the other things you mentioned we're more or less involved. We're also involved in what neighbouring countries are looking for. Therefore, the ESPO Convention applies to a high degree in Croatia. And we with the Hungarians are about the nuke, and all that was cooperation, and I hope this ratification of this document contributes to the acceptance of more countries, in particular, has one special agreement that we have this year had a meeting in Sofia where unfortunately the Bosnians did not sign, but will sign it, they agreed with that document that they would sign it, so we will have with these neighbouring countries that are not members of the ESPO Convention signed a contract precisely on the basis of these amendments that were adopted in Cavtato and Sofia. Here, thank you again for your support for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15861	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 12. Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the state borders of Sofia, 27 February 2001 and amendments and additions to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across State Borders, Cavtat 4 June 2004. It's an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 149. The debate is closed. The Legislative Committee has withdrawn the amendments submitted to this legislative proposal. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation and Amendments to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the state borders of Sofia on 27 February 2001 and amending and supplementing the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the Cavtat national borders on 4 June 2004. Please, let's get involved and vote. You have to read it, and it's a long time! It's a little slow, I apologize for the slowness. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 101 votes for, what's the matter? What? Oh, yeah. [[Intruder: Shakespeare was restrained.]] This is how most votes were passed this law. 101 votes for and 2 abstentions. We'll find out who he is. Thank you very much and very much. I find that it has been confirmed, that this law has been passed with the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15864	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the final text of the proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate. In the shortest lines, I would just like to inform you of the State Inspectorate as you know the State Administration and the Central Authority of the State Administration whose work is covered by inspection tasks in three groups of inspection operations and three groups of inspectors – economic inspectors, labour inspectors and inspectors for technical inspections. The system today has 920 employees. It is organized territorially by the principle of regional units, central offices and 39 facilities in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the plan of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union according to the National Programme for Accession of the European Union 2008, the State Inspectorate has also drawn up the Final Proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate adopted by the Government and is today on your benches. The harmonisation of the law with EU regulations is the reason why we propose that the law goes according to an urgent procedure. In relation to the EU's request, this law creates an institutional and legal framework for the effective implementation of inspection supervision in the area of the economic part of the inspection where the freedom of movement of goods is referred to as leaving the monitoring of the quality of the product before placing on the market at the request of the party. In the last year, the State Inspectorate system had 70,000 such controls, burdening administrative businessmen with 30 million kuna. Now we leave this kind of surveillance at the border, but that doesn't mean we're leaving the goods control. It will be operated in the warehouses of the importer, i.e. on the market when it is distributed work and protection at work, as lower working experience conditions are prescribed for inspectors, creating assumptions for strengthening administrative capacity in this area of surveillance, which is practically in line with the Regulation on the classification of jobs in the national administration, pressure equipment, because inspectors are determined by powers exclusively in inspection supervision, and not for the tasks of certification of equipment under pressure, which are jobs belonging to conformity certification bodies. To date, however, that was not the case. The adoption of this Law on the State Inspectorate will better address certain issues relating to the necessary professional training and length of the work experience in the profession that persons must have in order to be able to deploy to the post of inspector. In order to carry out the most complex inspection work as a novelty, the possibility of systematicising new jobs is introduced called the Senior Inspector – specialist, and in order to enable the employment of persons with completed pre-graduate professional studies, the popular Bolonjci is introduced to the post of inspector of another type of calling. The responsibility of inspectors and other civil servants deployed to the posts of superiors of internally formed units of the State Inspectorate shall be strengthened by prescribing the conditions under which the chief inspector of such an official may redistribute from such a post. The law is substantively language-compliant with the provisions of the Criminal Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2008. Given the circumstances that the State Inspectorate Act is from the original text of '99. 11 times changed today, a new text of the law was made. Here, dear Mr. President, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15865	Thank you very much. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Representative Milanka Opačić. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Vice-President of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15866	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Gender Equality at the 11th session held on 24 September 2008 discussed the Proposal for a Law on State Inspectorate with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. 145, which has been delivered by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 17 July 2008. The Committee discussed that proposal in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The proposer's representative initially explained the bill's proposal: "This law regulates the internal structure, affairs, powers and mode of work of the State Inspectorate." The law is adopted by an urgent procedure to comply with European Union rules. The current law on the State Inspectorate since the original text of 1999 has been amended 11 times and a new text of the law has also had to be drawn up for nomotechnical reasons. The applicant agreed with the objection and the proposal of the Ombudsman's Office for Children related to Article 27 of the Law proposal. This article authorises the inspector to take statements from the representatives of supervised legal entities and witnesses when carrying out inspection controls. It is proposed to add items which would determine that, if examined as a child, such an examination is carried out with the help of an appropriate professional person in order to prevent unprofessional testing and a tactless relationship with the child. In accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, each person is under 18. In the following discussion, the members and members of the committee specifically referred to the provisions of the draft law relating to the tasks of the State Inspectorate in the field of work and protection in the field of work, expressing the need for a greater number of labour inspectors and their greater independence expressed through the financial means by which the State Inspectorate institution should dispose. Members and members of the Committee unanimously decided to submit the following amendment to the text of the final draft law. In Article 27, the following new paragraphs 5 and 6 are added: 5. If a child is examined as a witness, such a study shall be conducted with the help of psychologists, educators, or other professionals in a manner appropriate to the age, age, and maturity of the child and with due care so as not to harm his development. And under paragraph 6. In terms of the provisions of this law, a child is considered to be a person under 18. You got a broad explanation on the bench, so I'm not going to read it because of the extensiveness of the argument. Finally, members and members of the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the State Inspectorate in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with the adopted amendment of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15867	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, President, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15868	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I welcome also the Chief Inspector, Mr. Krona Kovacevic and Deputy Mrs. Bozina Vrbanić. The Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at the 14th session held on 16 September 2008 discussed the proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate. We discussed this proposal as a parent body. After the introduction of the proposal's representative, the debate welcomed the fact that, compared to the existing 11 amendments to the amendments to the law, the full text of the law has been proposed and that this will also enable the inspectors of the State Inspectorate, but also to all legal and physical persons whose business and work in part of this law is easier to apply and interpret the legal provisions. It also welcomed the fact that it is related to the conditions of training and training, so that it is more attractive to the jobs of the State Inspectorate by a new law to follow the situation on the market of staff and the post of inspectors. The Committee maintains important harmonisation of the law with the experience and acquis of the European Union, which, in its implementation and as a result of inspection work, should have a significant impact on better consumer protection, combating the gray economy, working on black and unfair competitions. In a debate followed by a representative of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, he expressed his view that the fines for craftsmen are too high and that the State Inspectorate should be more rigorously punished for the violation of a natural person. As the debate expresses doubts in the concept of a natural person, the term is defined in a way that they are natural persons who have not registered any of the activities. In addition, the Commissioner also commented on Article 3(2) of this legislative proposal and proposed that companies be added to the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate in the exercise of supervision of other activities other than crafts. The application is also given in Article 64(3), which, in addition to fines, should also be subject to other sanctions. Therefore, the criminal liability or even the termination of the work of natural persons of craftsmen who do not allow the inspector to suspend documents or cases which serve as evidence in administrative and judicial proceedings. The unique opinion of the board members is that the timely prevention of a possible offence requires strict punishment for violations of the legal person and the responsible natural persons in them when "black workers" work with them. When it comes to punishing natural persons who do not have a registered trade or any other activity, the proposing representative pointed out that inspectors in that case have a problem in handling because they must respect constitutional provisions based on which they do not have the authority to enter a house or apartment for the purpose of carrying out inspection. All board members supported the adoption of this law, also assessing it as one of the important contributions to curbing corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the State Inspectorate with the following amendment: Article 3(2) is amended and reads: The State Inspectorate shall also exercise control over other activities carried out by natural and legal persons in accordance with the Law on crafts, if the special law does not determine the jurisdiction of the second body of the State administration. The adoption of this amendment would result in a clear statement of the law regarding the supervision of the application of all laws and regulations which form part of the State Inspectorate. In addition, the proposed amendment is in agreement with Article 1. A trade law governing the conditions under which trade is carried out as an independent activity by natural and legal persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15869	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15870	Mr. President, Chief Inspector, Madam Deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate, with the final proposal proposed to adopt an emergency procedure, aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and provides, in its Annex, a declaration of its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. In the SDP, we believe that it was really necessary to pass a new Law on the State Inspectorate even before, because the original law was passed in 1999 and has been amended and amended even 11 times since its adoption, and we wonder whether the proposer would have made a new text of the law at all if it had not been necessary to comply with the legislation of the European Union. We recall that more significant amendments to the applicable law took place by the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Inspectorate Act which entered into force in 2005 and in line with the conclusion of the Government which adopted the plan of short- and long-term measures to combat the grey economy. These changes have changed the powers of the State Inspectorate and, above all, in cases that prevent grey economy, knowing that all forms of the grey economy were about employment without valid legal basis or carrying out activities without work authorisation, resulting in an unequal position of economic operators on the market, while at the same time having a significant loss to the state budget due to non-payment of income from taxes, cuts and contributions. The SDP Club considers that this proposal should have brought together all inspections, i.e. other administrative areas in which the State Inspectorate would carry out inspection tasks, because if there is a State Inspectorate as a special independent body of the state administration, it should unite all inspection tasks, and not as it is now that certain inspection tasks are entrusted to the competent ministries. Practice shows that areas excluded from the State Inspectorate's district are controlled by double criteria, which is not good, and this results in virtually the Ministry overseeing itself. That's what this bill was supposed to do, and it wasn't. Furthermore, this bill proposes that the provisions on the quality control of the products needed for conviction be abolished, and so far it has been in the jurisdiction of the economic inspectors. Economic inspectors under the applicable law shall monitor the quality of domestic and import products for which it was necessary to be convinced by virtue of the provisions of Articles 14 to 18 of the now applicable State Inspectorate Act, and I recall 56 groups of food and non-food products. The applicant shall, as a reason for the removal of those competences, specify an action plan for compliance with Articles 28 to 30. The Treaty establishing the EEAS for Chapter 1 – Freedom of movement of goods by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since those provisions represent certain barriers to the product market and argues that it would remove administrative barriers to the placing on the market of products while also achieving harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union in this area. We are afraid that the abolition of these surveillance provisions will indeed cause chaos on the domestic market, as products of dubious quality came along with this surveillance in our country. We remind among these products include meat and meat products, milk, eggs, fruits, vegetables and all textile products. Even for this surveillance we had, it often happened that certain products had to be withdrawn, especially from the trade chains, so we rightly wonder if our market would flood the goods of suspicious quality. We need to know that not only does goods come to our market from European Union countries. All I'm going to say is an example of goods coming from China. This is particularly about textile products and toys that have so far been shown, often questionable qualities and very harmful to citizens' health. To leave this area to the controversial supervision of economic inspectors, or to the case-to-case surveillance, is a bad solution. We think that the promoter should have simplified the process of issuing his beliefs, but in any case those provisions should have remained in the law. I will continue to mention certain articles of this bill that we hold should be complemented or amended. First, we refer to Article 9 of the Law which should be complemented in the sense that the Chief Inspector who manages the work of the State Inspectorate appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since this law does not mention it. This is also logical, since the supervision of the work of the State Inspectorate is carried out directly by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus is directly responsible to the Government, and thus the Government would be responsible for the work of the State Inspectorate. It is also not a good solution that the Chief Inspector proposes to his assistants but should be chosen on the basis of a public tender. It is certainly good that Article 11 of this Law stipulates that an appeal against an inspector's solution may be made that it has not been the case so far, in breach of our Constitution directly, because one of the fundamental constitutional principles, the right to appeal against individual legal acts adopted in a first-degree procedure before a court or other authorised body. But this is where the independence of the bodies that should be resolved on complaints is questioned, because the Board of Appeals, or its members, is appointed by the Chief Inspector. We therefore propose that the Commission be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, Article 16 of this proposal lays down lower conditions for the length of the necessary post for inspectors. Thus, for the post of inspector, a work internship is prescribed for 12 months, and for more inspectors 4 years of work experience in the profession. As a reason, the Proposer states that during the call for tendering for inspectors' posts in practice, a very small number of candidates have been reported, as well as those employed in the state service as inspectors, are leaving the state service very quickly. Thus, the reduction of years of work experience is seen as an incentive measure in order to make the inspector’s posts as attractive as possible and to contribute to strengthening the state inspectorate. The SDP Club considers that this is not the right way to attract candidates for inspectors' jobs, i.e. to keep them in the state service, knowing how demanding and complex the work of inspectors is because of field work, and the nature of the job itself is such that inspectors often experience inconveniences and threats. In order to motivate inspectors to run for office and then stay in the service, it is necessary to primarily create assumptions about their work and then adequate pay. We have to admit that inspectors' salaries are small, inappropriate in the work they're doing. The inspectors of the State Inspectorate do not even have specific salary allowances due to working conditions and are discriminated against by other inspections. On the other hand, by prescribing lower conditions in terms of length of workload, we will lose quality. Knowing the state of government, it should be said that officials who have one year of work experience, if they were trainees in those years did not have a chance to learn much. That is why they are not themselves responsible, because the system works so that in those years their work is reduced to doing the simplest jobs. From professional jobs very little or almost nothing is learned in the public service within 12 months, despite the fact that each trainee has a mentor formally, and then we wonder how this official with almost no professional experience will be able to translate inspection tasks for which it is necessary to know the whole series of regulations. Also, prescribing for a senior inspector over four years is certainly too limited if it is taken into account that under the current law a condition of 10 years of working experience is prescribed. And what needs to be particularly highlighted is that the inspector, apart from material security, must certainly be independent of politics. Politics must not put pressure on the work of an inspection, there must be no bonds where there must be supervision and those where they are not allowed. And that's, unfortunately, happening today. Finally, the SDP club will support the adoption of this bill, but it will submit amendments to all these remarks that I have now made in its debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15871	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15872	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected chief inspector and deputy chief inspector, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 17 July 2008. The need for the adoption of this law is also linked to the fact that the applicable State Inspectorate Act was adopted in 1999, 11 times since the date of adoption. We therefore support the proposal's efforts to draft a comprehensive legislative proposal, in its content transparent and accessible in one place to all the entities to which it relates. It should also be pointed out that the adoption of this law is established by a legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis of the European Union in 2008 and is in line with the European Union rules. Given the fact that it is good for the applicant to decide on a new legal text in the shortest points, it is necessary to refer to the most important newspapers and basic issues that are regulated by law. This proposal shall establish in a transparent manner the administrative areas over which the State Inspectorate conducts inspection controls. The internal structure, jobs, powers and methods of operation of the State Inspectorate shall be arranged. It shall be prescribed which inspectors enter the State Inspectorate in order to carry out inspection tasks from its territory the powers of the inspector shall be prescribed. The obligation and duty of legal and natural persons shall be laid down to enable inspectors to be supervised in accordance with the prescribed powers. The proposal shall give particular importance to the rights and duties of inspectors in the procedures in which the inspector takes samples of the product to examine the conformity of those products. It shall be authorised for the inspector to force the perpetrator to execute the solution by charging the fine. Where the inspector determines the reasonableness of the suspicion that a criminal offence or criminal offence is committed, he shall take criminal and criminal sanctions and the law shall explicitly state in which case the inspector does not file an indictment for the initiation of a criminal proceedings. In order to effectively remove irregularities in the business of inspectors, the power to adopt an oral solution to the execution of the fishing solution is prescribed as a temporary measure to prohibit the carrying out of the activity. This measure has shown its effectiveness in preventing the grey economy and working on black. It should also be stressed as an effective measure of the authority of the inspector in carrying out inspection controls in the area of transport of goods. In relation to the European Union's request, the proposal creates a legal framework for the exercise of inspection supervision and thus freedom of movement of goods in such a way as to abandon the quality of the product before placing on the market at the request of the party. This removes the obstacle to economic operators importing certain products and domestic entities that were under obligation to obtain an assurance of the quality of the product prior to the placing on the market of certain products from an economic inspector. In addition, work and protection at work in such a way as to lay down reduced working experience conditions for the conduct of the inspector’s duties, and the authority of the inspector shall only be limited to inspection supervision. They can't perform the tasks of certification equipment under... The adoption of a new Law on the State Inspectorate will deal with issues related to the necessary professional preparation and length of the staff in the inspector’s profession, issues related to the working relationship of officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The paper is that in order to carry out the most complex inspection tasks, it is possible to systematise new jobs called senior inspector specialist. Intention is a law to strengthen the responsibility of inspectors and other civil servants. In accordance with this Regulation, officials deployed to the posts of senior officers of the internal establishment units of the State Inspectorate may, under the prescribed conditions, be relieved from such a post. It is also important to point out that, since 1 January 2008, the Republic of Croatia has been applying the Criminal Law, which in a different way regulates certain issues of breaking legislation. The text of the new Law on the State Inspectorate was therefore to be brought into line with the new Institutes of the Law on Violations. In view of the above, respecting the justification for the adoption of the State Inspectorate Act by emergency procedure, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15873	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15874	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Chief Inspector. The State Inspectorate is established by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministry and of State Administration Organisations, and now the Law on the Construction and Detect of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, and the time of the founding of the State Inspectorate is calculated from the time of entry into force of this Act. of 13 December 1997. During the past years, the State Inspectorate Act has been amended by special laws harmonising the description of inspectors' activities in the district inspectorate according to the changes made in the section. Significant amendments to the State Inspectorate Act were implemented by law amending and supplementing the State Inspectorate Act and entered into force on 8 November 2005. We've heard on several occasions that the State Inspectorate Act itself is from that original '99 text. 11 times changed to the present year, and thus the next conclusion is that the next amendments to the law need to draw up a completely new text of the legislative proposal. And not to repeat all of what my colleagues have said earlier on behalf of the club and ultimately the Chief Inspector, I will focus on several questions that lead to doubt, although I will also say that the HSS Club will support this proposal of the State Inspectorate Act. Article 11(5) concerns the Board of Appeal of three members appointed by the Chief Inspector. In addition to formal conditions such as the degree and type of education, it is not specified whether the members of the commission are inspectors of the State Inspectorate or are completely independent persons, therefore this is questionable. It is also stated that the inspection of the application of the laws and regulations in the area of trade, services, catering activities, the provision of services in tourism, accounting, collection and payment of a residence tax is carried out by the economic inspector. Article 13 does not mention the economic inspector of the first species, while in the next article, Article 14 does not mention it as such. We believe it is necessary to equate termologically the names of jobs, in order to avoid any doubt or ambiguity in the application of the law itself. Article 37(2) and (36) of the Rules states that the inspector shall, in the inspection procedure, have the right and the duty to take samples of the product and to provide them with a sealing and analysis. It shall also be prescribed that, if the samples tested do not comply with the prescribed composition and the like, the inspector shall, in the final conclusion, determine the amount of those costs and to whom they are to be paid and within what time limit. In order to be precise, we believe that it is necessary to specify who pays and the costs themselves and within which time the inspector is obliged to draw a specific conclusion establishing the amount of the costs incurred. Article 47 also provides for a period of 15 days for the filing of the indictment, for the initiation of an infringement procedure, or for the application for the initiation of a criminal proceedings. It is also stated that the intolerance of the indictment proposal, i.e. to that date, does not preclude the obligation to submit. In our opinion, the possibility of manipulation is opened and conditions for corruption and blackmail are created, regardless of which side they came from, we believe that these are not desirable phenomena in our society and that there is a need to prevent the development of such phenomena. I'm afraid, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, that what has already been said on behalf of the club and the HDZ and the SDP has no need to particularly point out, nor read in this debate on behalf of the clubs. I'm going to repeat once again that with this explanation that I believe we're going to get, the HSS Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15875	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. What about her? She's gone. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić? Mr. Dragutin Lesar? Mr. Davor Huška?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15876	Thank you. Mr. President, here's a long way to go this way at these late afternoon hours. I welcome Mr. Chief Inspector with the deputy, the distinguished fellow Members and colleagues here in the Parliament. Here are a few words on the Law on State Inspectorate, which is another one in a series, a whole series of legislative proposals that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the legislation of the European Union until this is not as usual delivered in the annex by a statement of its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. It is certain that with every new law, we are closer to the European Union and that this is, of course, motivated by all of us to do even more quality work. In relation to the requirements of the European Union, this law creates an institutional legal framework for the effective implementation of inspection supervision in the following essential areas. First of all, in the area of freedom of movement, goods leaving the quality control of products before placing on the market at the request of the party. The provisions of the applicable law relating to the quality control of products are recognised as an administrative obstacle to the placing on the market of products in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that our legislation through other laws will check the quality of goods coming from foreign countries and domestic products that appear on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The second area is the area of work and protection at work, as lower working experience conditions are prescribed for inspectors, creating assumptions for strengthening administrative capacity in this area of surveillance... administrative capacities in the field of labour surveillance and employment are a criterion for closing negotiations in Chapter 19. Social policies and employment, which is why support is given in these smaller working experience conditions in any case because it is not easy to find inspectors for the work of inspectors when high conditions are put in place, of course, with the need of certain and professional arrangements. And thirdly, in the field of control and certification of pressure equipment. It is possible that inspectors shall determine the powers exclusively in inspection supervision, and not for the tasks of certification of equipment under pressure, which are tasks belonging to conformity bodies. The adoption of a new Law on State Inspectorate will also better address certain issues relating to the necessary professional training and length of the work experience that has been spoken about and, of course, there are two different views and two opinions in the profession that must be held by persons in order to be able to deploy to the post of inspectors. And finally again one contradiction, of course, the adoption of the State Inspectorate Act by emergency procedure, will remove administrative barriers, which is the opinion of the promoters and us who support this proposal. Obstructions to economic operators importing certain products or domestic entities which are subject to an obligation from the relevant economic inspector to obtain assurance of the quality of the product. For all of this, of course, we're going to be supporting, we're going to accept the State Inspectorate Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15877	Thank you. Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15878	Dear President, the Chief Inspectorate has carried out 1373 controls during the period of control in the tourist season in the field of hospitality, tourism and a small part of other activities of which 55 foreigners, 67 unemployed, 18 unreported, 18 solutions on the ban on early night work and so on. I'm reading this because I think the inspectorate has since received an instrument for execution that has been serious on the ground such as the fishing facility, the temporary closure of the facility, the closure of the activity and so on significantly improved their work and efficiency, and it feels very much on the ground. This law is, in fact, if you just look at 11 changes so far and add one relief for practitioners who will not only through the consolidated text but through the new text of the law have the opportunity to make easier use of existing, norms. And of course, this law is also passed because of this, not because there are 11 laws, but to make the necessary preconditions that are necessary to fit European legislation with such a law. One of the reasons is that this law must also harmonize the terminology with the new Criminal Law applicable from 1 January 2008 in the section relating to the indictment proposal, the entities responsible for committing the offence and so on. The two areas I want to point out that I support this law are of particular interest to me, which are the area of eliminating conflicts of interest. In fact, some kind of conflict of interest has been present all the time with those assurances, and especially with a pressure conviction where inspectors have actually established, certified the equipment under pressure, and now this law definitely loses it and only obtains the right to control or inspection, and this part of the job will be further identified by authorised persons to determine compliance. We have also heard some complaints about professional arrangements that change, or work experience. In my view, this is a good solution because it reduces the work experience and specifies the professional preparation and adaptation at the end of the new, new title, but with regard to the work experience, it opens up a space for the entry of new inspectors because definitely and also the area from which I come, Međimurje in another area of inspection is not able to get an inspector for 5 years but can't get a head of that inspection for 5 years. So this opening with a shorter working experience, and I personally think that for more than 3 years, there is no occupation that could not be trained well and with one year is enough to carry out inspection tasks. The third area that was the target of this profession, these changes are actually freedom of movement of goods, and here we can say that in the early years of our independence there were a lot of problems with the entry of non-quality goods that had no documentation or missing documentation and then there was a lot of stuff on the market. I think that these conditions have been significantly improved, and this legislative solution, which is also required by Europe to free this administrative obstacle and no longer restricts the demand for compliance when entering or confirming quality rather than the various other review measures. So these three areas significantly improve the area of inspection and end up harmonising, and in that sense I want to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15879	Thank you. And finally Mr. Damir Sesvetan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15880	Dear President, Chief Inspector, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the first time I will repeat this because it has already been said about this, therefore, that the State Inspectorate was established by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and State Administrations of 1997 as the central body of the state administration with the task of carrying out inspection controls in certain administrative areas. The work of the State Inspectorate shall be managed by the Chief Inspector appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who shall also exercise control over the work of the State Inspectorate. The Part-Circular Inspectorate itself has been established by the 1999 State Inspectorate Act, which has been changed 11 times today, so it was certainly necessary to approach the new text of the law as proposed. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law on State Inspectorate which is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure, inter alia, and because of provisions relating to compliance with the acquis of the European Union. This law sets out, inter alia, how the structure, jobs, powers and methods of operation of the State Inspectorate are arranged. The administrative areas in which the State Inspectorate performs inspection tasks, regulates the internal structure and prescribes, prescribes the local jurisdiction of the inspector's district units, lists the rights and duties of inspectors in inspection affairs, prescribes a decision on the inspector's solution, prescribes specific reception conditions for the inspector's post, cases in which the inspector-in-chief can discharge his duties and deploys to the second post of official who manages the internal establishment unit. They prescribe the power to adopt an oral solution and so on and so on. In order to implement this law, it is important to ensure the quality of the work of inspectors both material and technical and information equipment conditions in order to facilitate the integration of information and communication within the Inspectorate and the Inspectorate with other authorities of the State Administration. The conditions of work of inspectors are also extremely important because of the role of inspectorates in preventing the grey economy, whether it is a matter of employment without a valid legal basis, carrying out activities without the necessary approval or supervision of product quality. When it comes to the conduct of newspaper inspection activities in this law, the introduction of a senior inspector of specialists and economic inspector of another kind. It is also proposed to regulate the issue of the necessary professional training and length of the inspector's post, in such a way that the conditions for the inspector's post are 12 months, and for the senior inspector of the 4th year of work in the profession. So far, these conditions have been from 2 to 5 years of working experience in the inspector's profession, and for several inspectors 10 years of which 3 years after the state's professional examination. This measure will certainly make the inspector’s jobs more attractive, but will also enable younger persons of course not less professional employment on these jobs. Through discussions in the working bodies of the Assembly, certain proposals and doubts have been raised about some of the proposed solutions set out in this law that we think should certainly be taken into account. Some of them are made through amendments. First of all, I am thinking about those Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, such as the amendment to Article 11. where it is proposed that the Board of Appeal appoints the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the Chief Inspector, as well as the removal of doubts in Article 47 concerning the authority of the inspector in the search of the apartment which I certainly support, given that it is a matter of harmonising these issues with the Constitution and other positive regulations. So here are just some of the reasons why I will support the adoption of this law on the State Inspectorate as well as the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15881	Thank you. And final inspector-in-chief, Mr. Kruno Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15882	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for your constructive discussion. I thank all the representatives of the board, thank all the representatives who have been constructively involved in this debate and individuals. We have adopted amendments to the Committee on Economy which we fully accept, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which we also fully accept. The Committee on Gender Equality, which is identical to the amendment of the esteemed representative Milanka Opačić, who we fully accept and the Committee on Legislative Law that we fully accept. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Legislatives relating to Nomochnik in the construction of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15883	What about Mrs. Opacic's amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15884	It is an identical, amendment of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure we accept fully.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15885	Okay. Accepted. So, all amendments are accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15886	Everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15887	They all are. Tomorrow you'll be devoting yourself. Well, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, tonight because we couldn't rationally predict the development of events sooner, because the MPs didn't, they weren't in the hall, but also because we couldn't call for these next laws, so we start at 9:30 in the morning. We've got eight laws from the health department. We'll have to figure out how to discuss it in the morning, how to do it rationally. I wish you a pleasant holiday by 9:30 tomorrow when we start with a set of laws. First of all, the Health Protection Act and so on. Thank you very much and pleasantly! 13. Final proposal of the State Inspectorate Act. It's an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 145. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Gender Equality, the representative Milanka Opačić, the SDP Representatives' Club. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Gender Equality and the representative of Milanka Opačić, and it is not necessary to vote on them. And now that's not accepted? Yeah. [[Intruder: SDP Club.]] I would like to ask the promoter to show himself about the amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, Mr Krono Kovacevic, Chief State Inspector. Here you go. This is the first amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15889	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP representative club submitted 4 amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate. We're reading ourselves as follows. Amendment 1. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15890	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 11(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15891	Amendment 2 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15892	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Third, Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15893	Amendment 3 shall not be accepted for the reason that the systematic quality control of the products for which the economic inspector has issued a conviction at the request of the party is ensured on the market in a manner prescribed by the directives of new access to our legislation, technical products and in the shared competences of food quality control, veterinary and sanitary inspectors when importing and economic inspectors in retail.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15894	Thank you. I'm asking on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15895	Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15896	Thank you very much. We agreed to vote manually on the amendment. So we're going faster. Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you for not being accepted. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 to Article 16
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15897	Amendment four is not accepted for reasons why the adoption of this amendment would also prescribe different working experience conditions only for labour inspectors compared to other inspectors of the State Inspectorate. The working experience for inspectors is subject to the conditions laid down in the Civil Service Act, and the working experience conditions for a senior inspector are in line with the State Service Labour Classification Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15898	The lady on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15899	Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-25-0.u15900	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to a vote that the government doesn't normally accept. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for this law to be passed. It takes a half majority of all MPs. So 77. I am voting on the final proposal of the State Inspectorate Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the vote 103 votes in favour, 2 votes are abstentions in Metkovica and Đakovo and one against the adoption of this Law on the State Inspectorate. Thank you. Any other opinions? I would, however, like to agree on this as far as possible, because here under Rule 223(3) of the Rules of Procedure, a united debate may be on the proposal of the chairman, clubs and home working bodies. But no one's stopping us from agreeing to it, no matter who's the formal promoter. So can we accept, then, that of these six points that Mr. Hebrang has indicated that we discuss them together with that the clubs then have 20 minutes in the opening debate here, and that individual discussions remain 10 minutes because I don't see any reason why individual debates would be longer for any particular reason? Can we agree? Okay, thank you. So here's how - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 159 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Biochemical Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 161 - Final draft law supplementing the Law on Medicine, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 163 - Final draft law supplementing the Law on sisterhood, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 164 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmacy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 165 - Final draft law supplementing the Law on dental activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 166 It's all an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 159, 161, 163, 164, 165 and 166 will be discussed under one item of the agenda. We can get started. So, all these six that I've listed, please both committees and clubs, that in that sense, he's taking up his own debates as well. They are not united, once again, in particular the final proposal for a law on primacy, P.Z.E., will be discussed. No. 160 and Final Proposal for a Law on Physical Activity, P.Z.E. No. 162. I apologize, so these two laws will be specifically discussed. The proposer of these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
