ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-15-0.u14681	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So we have the first report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, Mladen Bajic. At the 10th session held on 9 July 2008, the mandate of the subsidiary prosecutors Natasa Pifar Mihelić and Ljubomir Čučić discussed the request of the subsidiary prosecutors to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia Mladen Bajic, who is charged with the criminal offence of the position and powers referred to in Article 337(1) and (2), the unwitting work in the service referred to in Article 339, the confiscation of a child or a minor referred to in Article 210(1) and (2) and the association for the conduct of the criminal offence referred to in Article 333. Penalty law. Mr Mladen Bajic is based on Article 124(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 48(1). The Law on State Attorney's Office, appointed on 3 March 2006, by the Croatian Parliament for the State's Attorney-General at the time of 4 years and the same within the meaning of Article 7(4) of the Law cited, shall not be detained or brought against it by criminal proceedings without the approval of the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that the resolution of the state attorney's office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crimes since 23 November 2007 rejected the criminal application of Ljubomer Cucic and Natasa Pifar Mihelic against Mladen Bajic, and that the same against him had been filed by the County Court in Zagreb as subsidiary prosecutors. Following the debate, the mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, 7 votes to propose the next decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mr. Mladen Bajic, Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia under the indictment of the subsidiary prosecutors Ljubomir Čučić and Natasa Pifar Mihelić of Petrinja, who are charged with the offences referred to in Articles 337(1) and (2), Articles 210(1) and (2) and 333 shall be denied. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-15-0.u14682	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on which, during the term of the term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the Attorney General, Mr Mladen Bajic, is denied, following the indictment of prosecutor Ljubomer Cucic and Natasa Pifar Mihelic. Please, let's get involved and vote. So we are voting on the proposal for a mandate-immunity commission. Score. The proposal for a mandate-immunity commission was accepted by 117 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Thank you. We're moving on to another one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-15-0.u14684	Report on the request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Franja Lucic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. At the 10th session held on 9 July 2008, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the municipal state attorney in Požega from 16 April 2008 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 6 May 2008, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the granting of authorisation for the further conduct of criminal proceedings against Franja Lucić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, as he was brought against him by the Municipal Court in Požega in the course of criminal proceedings for the criminal offence of causing the traffic accident referred to in Articles 272(1) and 2. Penalty law. Mr. Franjo Lucić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The State's Attorney's Office sent a request for further authorisation to carry out the proceedings against legislator Franja Lucic. Following the debate, the mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with 7 votes to propose the next decision to the Croatian Parliament. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against legislator Franja Lucic at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Pozega referred to through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the reasonable suspicion that he has committed the criminal offence of causing the traffic accident referred to in Article 272(1) and (2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-15-0.u14685	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and I am making a proposal to the committee for a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. So we vote on the Commission's proposal to grant approval. Score. This proposal was accepted by most votes, 117 votes for and 3 abstentions and nothing against.
