ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u105	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament! First of all, as Prime Minister and Prime Minister for the composition of the new Government, I would like to congratulate all elected representatives in the Croatian Parliament and to thank Croatian voters for making another decision on the composition of the Parliament and what government will lead Croatia in the next term of office. This is the second time that I have the honour and privilege to present the Croatian Government and the Croatian Government programme in the assembly of the Croatian Parliament. This honor is rare in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in the countries of transition, and I am proud to present today a programme and composition, a proposal for the composition of the new government. Out of respect for this fact and for this House of Commons, I have prepared a speech that I will read, and I have tried to put the most important thoughts in it, or ideas that we, as parliamentary majority, will manage during this term of office. When I was four years ago representing the first Croatian government I was in charge of, I was saying that the Croatian public wants to know what it brings tomorrow, because we live in a country that was then filled with a variety of uncertainty and because we live in a world of hope of peace but is still very uncertain. That's what encourages me, that's exactly the line to look back on the past period. Perhaps two words will be enough for that, which is security and reliability. It has been confirmed that the Croatian man primarily wants security and reliability. Security of course in protecting Croatia's peace and integrity as the most important framework for a free and dignified life. I don't need to stress, but we've provided this framework with a great victory in the Homeland War. And that security will soon be fully strengthened by achieving the two main strategic objectives of state policy by entering Euro-Atlantic integration. When we fully solidify the anchor in the European Union and NATO, Croatia will in less than two decades circle the way from the independence of the victory in the imposed war to the full and equal membership of the free democratic world community. I'm looking back on that journey of unhinged pride. Few, very few countries and peoples have achieved such high goals in such a short time in modern history. Before the end of history, he brought us freedom, peace and opportunity to build our country in the best way. It's an obligation of our generation. It is an opportunity that is not missed and that is the reason for pride and honor. At the same time, the past period has confirmed that Croatia, the Croatian people and Croatian citizens also see this external security as reliability on the internal agenda, as reliability in economic terms, that the Croatian man wants a reliable and predictable state and wants to look confidently at public administration, that he wants reliability in the education system, in protecting our nature, in short to want a reliable society that will look forward to the future. A society that will live in peace with itself without unnecessary tensions, cracks and divisions. A society that will respect each member, include everyone and give everyone a chance. A society where tolerance and dialogue will be the main virtue and guarantee of progress. A society of rule of law, a society of equal odds, a society of care for an individual and a society in which an individual will contribute to the community. In the past, the government has acted in that direction. Today, Croatia is a completely safe country and a country that is confidently moving on. At the achievements that have already become part of our daily life in the next legislative period of the Croatian Parliament, the new government will implement the programme that I represent today, the country's accelerated development programme, the new development jump programme, the programme for an even better Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen! We are entering the third period of formation of the Croatian State. The period of war and porn is behind us. The period in which we have laid the foundations and implemented the necessary reforms to ensure that the country in every respect and materially and spiritually leaves the war and war zone is also behind us because Croatia is already a better place to live today than it was yesterday and it has ever been since its independence, because we have moved deeply away from reforms, because we are negotiating full membership in the European Union, because we are standing at the threshold of NATO and because this overall order is a valuable example and an incentive for our Southeast neighbourhood to quickly compensate for the missed years and to overcome the uncertainty which is also in the interest of our security. Croatia, ladies and gentlemen, therefore stands before the third stage of development. Homeland security and Croatian sovereignty are now definitely starting to show and shape through new tasks and new goals. Not leaving the past aside, and always with the deepest respect for the price we've paid for freedom, now we're moving on to that dignity. Not ignoring the successes in the reforms we have implemented and always aware of our achievements, and now we are going further. It's the basic thought of a new government program. It comes from recognising the strong desire of Croatian citizens that the country continues to progress, that every citizen gets an even better chance, that progress on the international plan may be felt in every home. At the same time, it comes from recognising dramatic and immeasurably rapid changes on the world stage and in a globally heated vibrating world that does not allow relaxation and where any delay is being punished by lagging behind. The idea recognises that Croatia has no time to relax either because we would spend every waste of time no matter how much we have won our victories from the glorious past or political recommendations about the further course of the country's development and we would inevitably pay for it by lagging behind. And just given the achievements of the recent past, and just given the progress we've made so far, we simply have no right to stop. All our victories would remain in the museums of our memories, all our progress in building a modern European state and society would only remain incomplete manuscripts, and therefore I will repeat, we simply have no right to stop. That's why we're talking about an accelerated development program, a new development jump. He's needed and he's inevitable. He confirms that only responsible state policy knows and can manage change and lead the country. He confirms that even at this moment of Croatian statehood we know what needs to be done today. Ladies and gentlemen, the election is behind us. They showed and confirmed what Croatian citizens want and what they expect. First of all, they have confirmed the irrevocable stability of democracy in Croatia but also the desire of our citizens to continue to lead the country with a policy of responsibility and continuity precisely with the security and reliability that I was just talking about. The elections, as in other countries, have shown what weaknesses and shortcomings we still need to address. My party's programme of the Croatian Democratic Union has met with the best voter reception. Today, at the beginning of the new convocation of the Croatian Parliament, there is no need to stress that this programme in a whole way has just covered those ideas and goals that we are talking about here. However, what I need to say right before the new assembly is the fact that this programme had the obvious and greatest coalition potential because around this new developmental leap, Croatia is the easiest form of a coalition platform that I will propose. In addition, let me stress, not without pride, that it was also a programme that enabled my party and me personally to hold another mandate, which is a kind of precedent in countries that carry out transition reforms and negotiate with the European Union, making success even greater. The success I would also say is the measure of our common political maturity and the way we set out after the elections to prepare the coalition platform and to develop the government programme that we propose. I and my party have known this for years, for me and my party, the political goals and interests of Croatia have always been ahead of individual ambitions and particular party interests. I would also like to thank the President of the Croatian Peasant Party Mr. Josip Fristic, the president of the Croatian Social and Liberal Party, Mrs. Djurdji Adlesic, as well as their party leaderships for their readiness to focus with full seriousness on the programming basis of the new government's programme. In particular, it should be appreciated that our coalition partners recognized the newly mentioned need with a new developmental step in Croatia and that they refreshed this strategy with both their ideas and their contribution. My special gratitude goes to representatives of national minorities. Their commitment and willingness to join the coalition platform precisely on these ideas and on the policy I have led in the past term clearly and unequivocally confirms that the current government has led the right policy both for Croatia and for all its citizens. This is also one of the measures of our joint progress, our real formation of Croatia as a modern European democratic country in which progress and prosperity will be ensured by the style and unity, dialogue and respect of all. Given the entrenched objectives of the Government Programme I present to you and given the strong demands of the internal and external opportunities in which we will implement this programme, the Government will need strong support and understanding of the Croatian Parliament. The tasks and objectives that we are facing also bring this High House to the level of responsibility when it has made historical decisions and when the most valuable paradigms of the Croatian state have been confirmed through the Parliament, which was the paradigm of community and clear orientation. In other words, no one has the right to step away from responsibility. Because being in opposition also means taking care of Croatia. Anything else would have been irresponsible and missed. True, our differences are sometimes so deep that it seems like we don't live in the same country, but we can't and we can't accept it. There is no political objective, party platform or individual ambitions that may be beyond our need for unity around Croatia's strategic goals because if there is a deepest lesson in our own history it is about the terrible price of our divisions. In this light, I would particularly like to stress that the government will act on a constructive gathering of all political forces and experts willing to contribute to the country's development and overcoming unnecessary and burdensome divisions in Croatian society. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about it and because I'm going to say it openly, it's waiting for a challenging period in which we will inevitably implement our demanding programme under complex circumstances. We are waiting with the rest of the need to ensure the implementation of this programme, in particular its economic part under the conditions of more severe economic and financial opportunities on the international stage. The world economy is in an extremely sensitive phase, there are structural changes in the schedule of power and relations of the largest economic forces, energy prices, energy security in general becomes strategic priorities, international monetary relations are also changing. All this affects national economies and accelerated globalisation further warns that the only possible strategic orientation is, in particular, a rapid increase in competitiveness and integration in the wider free market zones and particularly in the European Union with the strengthening of our relations with other most important world partners. In such circumstances, the close link and synergy between our economic interests and our foreign-political objectives becomes fully visible and inevitable. And the government on that platform will ensure the reciprocity of our foreign-political action with our strategic economic objectives. In such circumstances, too, there is an even greater need to speed up negotiations with the European Union. On our part of the negotiating table, the Government will do everything possible to prepare the remaining negotiating positions within the shortest time limits and meet as important as possible the necessary criteria with the rapid implementation of internal reforms and the timely adoption of the necessary laws in the Croatian Parliament. The Parliament remains at the heart of our focus towards the European Union in this respect and I am convinced that the continued action of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Accession Negotiations will contribute to the acceleration of our quality negotiations with the Union. We've been waiting for a few months for our new step towards the Atlantic Alliance. In my belief that Croatia will receive a full NATO membership invitation in April this year, I would like to stress that the government will continue the necessary reforms in the defence and security sectors and the necessary budgetary adjustments. I am also convinced that the growing public support and understanding will be positive in particular when measured in light of the security and political opportunities in the world and also in our immediate neighbourhood for decisions at the NATO Alliance summit in Bucharest, as well as for Croatia's further responsible participation in the division of responsibilities for global security through the United Nations, the peace mission and through other activities aimed at spreading peace and democracy in the world. In this light, ladies and gentlemen, it is of particular importance that we participate in the work of the United Nations Security Council. Our entry into the "world government", as they often call it, as they often call it, is not just a clear confirmation that the world also recognises our democratic potentials and contributes to the process of stabilising and strengthening peace. It's already a whole new dimension and a whole new measure of our responsibility. It will appear in the Security Council but will have to be reflected in our overall international action. During the period ahead, the government will continue to be special, continue to pay particular attention and interest to the permanent arrangement and contribution to the political stabilisation of Southeast Europe. And that is why, in any case, we support the long-known and often-supported one of us, and on this occasion I am doing so to the policy of the European Union, the open door for all countries, for all the countries of the future member states of the European Union from the South East of Europe. During the period ahead, the government will continue to pay particular attention and interest to the permanent regulation of constitutional relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to strengthen Bosnia and Herzegovina as a democratic European state three equal, constitutional and sovereign peoples. We will support and assist Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress as well as all the countries in our neighbourhood towards the European Union and NATO because we believe that this is the best framework and an integral component for all these countries, especially now we are talking here for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Care for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains our permanent commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, not just constitutional, not just Dayton, but moral and national. We advocate and advocate open and equal political and economic co-operation in our part of Europe. We have been and remain among the most active advocates of the co-operation process in Southeast Europe and the new free trade agreement CEFTA. We remain convinced that the Euro-Atlantic road is best for all countries of this area and in this respect we welcome and support the EU enlargement policy as I said earlier. Any lagging behind or giving up on that road, any hesitation about the strategic direction and direction of Southeast Europe towards the European Union and NATO would simply not be in the spirit of historical movements in the new undivided Europe that we want to build. We have confirmed our policy and during our chairmanship the process of co-operation in Southeast Europe and the "summit" in Zagreb in the presence of leading statesmen and officials of the European Union and of the United States as well as others. We will also confirm this by running the newly established Regional Co-operation Council with Sarajevo's headquarters with the main secretariat. We will confirm such a policy and willingness in, in a constructive spirit on an equal basis, in accordance with best European practice, to resolve and remaining inherited issues with neighbours including those shared with Slovenia in accordance with the already established process of addressing the third party. Finally, we will confirm this by leading our overall foreign policy activities, which will show and confirm our responsibility and credibility in the implementation of our national interests, but on European values and within the common European home, as we approach our membership in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the programme of government and government that I propose to you comes from a fundamental idea that Croatia should and can step into a new higher development stage and that we can achieve a new development jump. In this respect, the government's main objectives will be to ensure stable economic development with a steady growth of gross domestic product and to preserve macroeconomic stability. We will continue to develop knowledge-based society and develop measures for an even stronger activity of the knowledge economy to involve young people and educated people in entrepreneurship. To strengthen the overall competitiveness of our economy and to reduce the unemployment rate with the rest and through further development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The government will pay particular attention to the even development of all Croatian areas, aware that the balance of development is the presumption of the stability of the state and of the equality of all citizens. Continuing the construction of large infrastructure projects remains a priority for these governments, with particular emphasis on the synergy of transport connection with our entire Adriatic policy. This will also be an incentive for Croatian agriculture, which will pay special attention to the traditional Croatian manufacturing branch that is entering the necessary changes in order to strengthen efficiency and competitiveness. Systemic strategic orientation and promotion of tourism are also at the top of the priorities of this programme as well as concern for environmental protection and the introduction of order into space. In addition, the government comes from the programme goal of completing the overall transition process in Croatia. A new development jump is only possible on the basis of completed transition tasks. This primarily means the completion of all necessary reforms from the judiciary and the public administration to health care and the completion of privatisation. In addition, in the first month, the government will send the Croatian Assembly a proposal for additional additions to the Law on the Design and Action of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, which will refer to important areas such as public procurement, statistics or, for example, goods. We are preparing these modifications with a series of experiences and needs in the process of joining the European Union, or harmonising with the acquis of the European Union and good practice in the Member States. In addition, the main focus of our reform procedures and the preparation of new legislative solutions will be on those areas that include negotiating criteria to achieve a double impact; speed up the necessary reforms and at the same time speed up EU membership negotiations. The government will continue to support and encourage the social partnership. On the one hand, justice and social inclusion should be ensured, but on the other hand, and shared responsibility for the country's accelerated development. We remain committed to solidarity and to this principle. Especially when changes and price disturbances on the world market are being poured into our market in many branches. But the long-term response we see only in increasing production, supporting entrepreneurship and strengthening the market competitiveness of our economy. Not only in protests and constant high expectations, but only through budget procedures. The government I present to you is aware of the necessity of implementing this particular programme during this period. I'm gonna say it one more time. We just don't have time to stand. To stand in place. So this is the government of people who have already confirmed themselves and proved themselves in the previous term and who are ready to complete the start, but also the government of people determined to add their new energy. We are entering a period when Croatia will achieve its most important strategic goals precisely in the mandate of this government. It will be a measure of responsibility for our work. It's such a unique and honorable task that I don't doubt at all, that all members of the government will bend over and support this House of Commons in its future action. Ladies and gentlemen, I have sent a letter to the President of the Parliament requesting a vote of confidence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 97(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the Republic has entrusted me with a mandate to form a new government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia I propose the following members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia: Ivo Sanader for Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Damir Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Đurđa Adlešić, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Prof. dr. Slobodan Šuker for Deputy Prime Minister, Gordan Jandrokovic for Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Ivan Šuker for Minister of Finance, Branko Vukelić for Minister of Defence, Berislav Rončević for Minister of the Interior, Anu Lovrin for Minister of Justice, Bozidar Kalmet for Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Master of God Pankretić for Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Marina Matulović-Dropulić for Minister of Environment Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction of Master Darko Milinović, Doctor of Medicine for Health and Social Care, Prof. Dr. Dragan Primorac for Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Master of Culture Bozo Biskupić for Culture Minister Petar Cobankovic for Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, and Damir Bajs for Minister of Tourism. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia's Constitution and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union. I request the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to vote on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the proposed composition and I propose to the Croatian This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 107(2) I am delivering the Government's programme for the term of office of the Croatian Parliament until 2011 and the life of the proposed members of the Government. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention, I'm asking for your confidence in this government. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u106	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, Dr. Eve Sanader. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u107	Dear Mr. President, congratulations on your choice. Respected MPs and MPs, too. High home, ladies and gentlemen. I stand before this highest body for the first time, in front of the High House of Croatian Democracy, looking at this full hall and seeing what they taught us as high school students and high school students, left, left left, left, left. What brings us together? It connects us, and I am fully convinced, and with this I do not want to paralyze, love for Croatia. But it also brings us together a society that is not harmonious, which is divided, which is not detached, which we want to build to be a society, to be a community, not to be a crowd. The second question is when we begin to love Croatia, to live for it, whether we all work in the same way well for that Croatia. That's where I think different. What is a Croatian dream? The Croatian dream of us, our ancestors, grandmother, nona, fathers, was Croatia first of all. The Croatian dream is to work, to live freely, to create, to earn, to contribute to the community, to make money free, to care for its children and to make the state a servant and not a master, and that is not a particularity and specificity. So our work may be a little too free and poetically said that we work together to achieve a Croatian dream. The government and the program that we're presenting here today is something we've already seen. The program is an important thing, but people, people are even more important and these people are more or less the same here. And the results of the government that needs to be confirmed today and which should be given a mandate and trust are well known and we know what has been going on for the past four years. What else is important for the foundation of one community and what distinguishes the community from the crowd, the civilization from the barbarians? They're institutions. The moment Croatia has institutions such as those established by the European Union, Croatia will be a strong state, a strong community to which we will be fully proud. A few weeks ago, the Presidency of the European Union brought some views and Benchmark, or criteria for the start of Croatia's negotiations in the area of justice and human rights. It is these institutions that make a strong state and that leads to people having confidence in the country they live in. These recommendations, or attitudes, come from the club of those who are still impotent to us and who we want to compare to. What do they say? They say we are in the area of justice after four mandates, after 4 years of the government's mandate, which will be the same in key segments, that Croatia is still too old to start negotiations. So, let's start negotiations. We're back in first grade. We just need to establish the right strategy for judicial reform. And where's the reform? Where is trust in institutions? Corruption. And there's also a scrap of basic documents. And where's the party? And what a society where corruption is a model, a pattern of low behavior, and even more dangerous at a high level. Minority. They invite us to implement laws that we ourselves have passed and that we must live by. It's like in the Bible. As the people of Israel, live according to their laws. And that's not where we enforce the laws we make. We're talking about tolerance, about co-existence. For us in the SDP and on the left of Croatia, I believe in the whole, the question of the heart, not the pockets or interests. And we always in this society, in this country we like to call some important things too big, sometimes hypertrophysed names, and then too tight again. We once called it brotherhood and unity, and that as children, we who grew up in socialism mocked each other. Today we call it tolerance, as a tolerance to accident, to rust, to something that is in itself bad, so it needs to be tolerated. Co-existence, like something that happens kicking. So, togetherness. In short, it's the balance of work of this government, of that government, of this same government, that's what the top of the civilized world thinks of us. That's where we see ourselves and see each other rightly. What are the criteria for supporting every government, including this government? Two are the criteria that are generally, which is the program and these are the personnel and they are difficult to separate from each other, people implement the program. In the case of this government, it's her work so far, because people are mostly the same. The leaders, the most responsible people are mostly the same. As far as the program is concerned, it is a list of good wishes that are mostly hard to disagree with. This will be discussed more in detail by my fellow SDP friends because we talked about it as a big and strong team and during the campaign, and I see in recent days and weeks that some of the people on that team, who until a month and a half ago were declared socialist economists, incompetent, suddenly became desirable partners. Is it because they have a program or because the government doesn't have people? And we'll see about that. The following criteria are personnel. There's no great idea that can't pave the way to hell. People do programs. When it comes to trade these days, and they'll keep talking, I'm not such a tough judge. Politics is like that. It is necessary to agree on who will implement the programme and sometimes the agreement can or must come out of the existing institutional frameworks, ministries, administrations. It's not good to go out too much, but sometimes it has to. However, the key criterion with expertise is political human credibility, and the government we are proposing has serious problems. I will not speak of individuals, I will refrain from respecting this House and the Croatian public. We've talked about it a lot, maybe sometimes too hard about the campaign, but some facts remain. Some members of that government would not pass the test and test of human, legal credibility, but in the nearest neighborhood, in Slovenia, Austria, the Netherlands, Germany, they would also have to answer for how they live, how they acquired it, explain each kuna, lip, pfening. These are the standards we want, which we will set and according to which we will be asked to be tried. It is the right of the public to know about every kuna, every euro, every cent spent in a campaign to finance political parties and these are the standards in which we lag behind and after four years of the mandate of this same government far behind Europe, far behind some of the neighbours with whom we lived until 15 years ago in the same country that was not good for us. The work so far and the results of this government. I was already talking about something at the beginning. So, the European Union has said what it thinks about the institutions of this country, so also about the government that built these institutions or hasn't built in the past four years. We've been watching the last weeks of the reunion. One real little mess. In fact, the structural inability of a single set of people to influence what needs to be influenced, otherwise we don't need a government. I'm not talking about socialist economy, interventionism. I am talking about active economic policy measures, industrial, structural, development, regional policy, everything that they wrote and spoke about by socialist economists and for which we received almost 800,000 votes from Croatian people and thank them for that. We won't let them down. Energy. We know that the current energy crisis is not in supply, but in prices. But even here, if you don't have an energy policy, you fall with the victim, and the small, poorly organized, those who don't see fall first. Production in Croatia is the root of the problem we have, which is the problem of duty and life on a loan that we cannot pay. We all have some loans. Croatia lives on credit and threatens to become insolvent. Croatia simply spends much more than it produces, does not create knowledge, does not create added value, and it does not have to be built by building factories on Ural. It's past time, but the excuse for it isn't living in a free market, we don't live in chaos. The responsibility for not living in chaos is the responsibility of the government. Peace. In 2005, it was promised to be 70% more from the pay phone of the government's most responsible people. It's 40% or 40%. That's how a million Croatian people live. In short, some of the topics that started the campaign and the months before the campaign and that have been waiting for us in this High House for a few weeks. The first is a protected ecological fishing belt. In order not to be completely innocent, we too went along with the HSS more than two years ago with the initiative to declare it and enter into force before 1 January 2009. At the time, we didn't know that Croatia seemed to have made some commitments before the opening of the negotiations, that they had signed on those commitments by senior officials, not directly members of the government, but people under the authority of government members and that this was considered a commitment by the Croatian state. If we live by the laws and contracts of that obligation, we must obey, if any. If they do not exist, then the answer to who is telling the truth, us or Brussels and the entire European Union, must be given to the people involved. We will not do anything on our part to compromise what we consider to be the primary Croatian goal at this time, which is membership in the European Union. But we have to get answers to some questions. NATO. We worked hard for NATO after 3 January when Croatia was in semi-insulation and when some did everything conscious or unconscious to keep us away from it, as well as from the European Union. Conscious or unconscious. I believe unconsciously. We advocated a referendum. Not because we want to be destructive, but because that's how we see democracy. We see the right of citizens to know, decide and be partners in one of the most important decisions Croatia makes when it comes to its international position. It can be different. Indeed, the Constitution of Croatia does not say that the referendum is mandatory. But it says that it can, I read, and it needs to be discussed when it comes to things that are so important to national integrity, uniqueness, integrity and security. If it's not NATO, then maybe it's a smoking ban. It's NATO ladies and gentlemen. And that's where we saw the same oscillations and changes in attitudes. And that's why polls are important that show the supposed rise in popularity, and we're going to watch them with attention, but exit polls weren't important or credible. The way it suits who. So we will do everything in NATO as long as Croatia becomes a NATO member because we know and believe that this is the best Croatian interest. And everything in our work, our actions, our speech, our activities was just on that line. Constitutional changes. And we'll be around them if we need to make a deal. Only if it's a national interest. If it is particular party interests such as the one to whom the president is to be given and how a mandate should be given for the government's composition, we will not negotiate because we consider the existing solution to be good. And that Croatia, regardless of what the elections were two months ago, will win the government today. Maybe not what she deserves or what she wanted, but she'll get it. And the state will have its institutions and will not live in powerlessness. So the government will be composed and I congratulate you on that. Congratulations to those who have agreed, I congratulate those who have satisfied their interests and some Croatian interests will be satisfied. Some Croatian interests will be satisfied, but that is another question. Finally, Marko Porcia Caton the Elder has been spinning all along one of his Cetherum censors, so I'm going to do it again this time because it's our debt to the voters but it's also a fact. So most of the people in this country voted on 25.11. that this government and its current prime minister are no longer running this country. Most people... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u108	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u109	We listened to a speech that was long, it lasted half an hour, we disagreed with most of the things, or we kept quiet. But it's an institution thing, ladies and gentlemen. We're learning institutions. So most people in this country voted for the left center. Whoever doesn't see it, I won't tell him that he doesn't see anything or understand anything, but it's exactly that fact that gives us the right and the obligation to carry out in this country both the vision of these people and my vision and to be a strict critic of this government and to stop talking about these cheap historical patterns red and black because I want to build at least this party that I'm leading, as a party of all colors, but that every color is recognizable. And to you ladies and gentlemen, all the best, institutions are developing. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u110	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have a correction to incorrect allegations, and then I'll give the word to the prime minister. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in a number of incorrect allegations, I'm only going to correct some that I think is important to correct. First, counterpart Milanovic said European institutions are sending us a message that Croatia is not up for the start of negotiations. So I have to correct that incorrect quote because it is the European institutions that are sending us the opposite message. They send that Croatia is making excellent progress on its way, that it is a great negotiator and that everything it has done in terms of reform is really in line with all those demands and requirements that the European Union has towards us, but also with our views. Speaking of gatherings and structural impotence allegedly in which the state is supposed to say that Mr. Milanovic should first discuss with his mayor of the City of Zagreb and the SDP in Zagreb who has put more than a quarter of the citizens in a uncomfortable position and raised the cost of their lives. It's something that the SDP was supposed to talk about, not today, salting our minds about some alleged state impotence for, in connection with the hoarding. So please make a concrete move to Mr Milanovic, bring your mayor's office and return the price they were before the gathering in Zagreb. This will best help the Croatian citizens you are talking about here today. I am sorry that Mr Milanovic came out, otherwise he made us very happy and laughed with this statement that voters voted for the left centre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u112	Okay. It's over. Part two...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u113	That's a very funny statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u114	The second part of this correction was more replicas. Therefore, we stick to correcting false allegations. Mr. Representative Sima Lucin reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u115	Thank you very much. 209. Rules of Procedure. Mr. President! If you start by allowing MPs to violate the rules of procedure to correct false allegations, this assembly will turn into nothing. Because you know what. If we're going to correct everyone's opinion, even if you're going to correct someone's opinion, you have to have an opinion. That's the problem. So I would ask you to keep the Rules of Procedure in mind at least here today and several of the first appearances of this new House, calling on this House to retain one dignitity, because this way and in this way, I think we will send a bad message to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u116	Mr. Representative! I agree mostly with you. You know, you were in the last session that the fastest was exaggerated or allowed to correct the incorrect allegations and that we never strictly approached the problem from the position of the Rules of Procedure, but here's the thing, and you didn't call for what you owed on the article that you did. You said that but it says exactly how it should be done, and I'm going over it. So don't start trying to limit us to something that's already become a little bit I'm going to say even unfortunately tradition in this House that correcting an incorrect quote is used as a replica. We can come to an agreement, and we may suggest that we specify it in the rules of procedure that institute is perfectly accurate if that is possible at all. Otherwise, as to the nature of your remark, I fully agree. But also the practice that was during the last session of the Parliament. That's why I said that the second part of Mr. Matusic's correction was more of a replica. I hope it doesn't happen again. Here's Mrs. Bozica Solić for correcting the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Representative Milanovic said in his debate a series of false and false allegations of his own, and I would only part of his debate that was very important, which is when he said that no one was taking care of the wave of collection, which is not true. There was a lot of concern and concern about the wave of collection, but apparently Mr. MP said that question in the wrong place because he should have asked the mayor of Zagreb exactly where the prices were very much raised by municipal fees but I don't know if he's still talking to him. Well, he should have asked him that before. And another correction that's very important. I will say that I am not so sure and I would disagree when you said that you entered politics for the sake of Croatia and for the sake of national interests. I don't think so, because you just did.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u118	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u119	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u120	We've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u121	Again, Mr. President, Article 209. I'm asking you to give the representative in question a warning. It's unlegal, inhumane, rude to tell a colleague that he's lying. A colleague's representative may be uninformed. ... You said he told a series of lies. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When you tell the truth, you lie. So it can be said that a fellow representative is not informed, that there is not enough data but that it is a lie that is inadmissible. And I ask you to refrain personally from commenting and to share justice in this assembly. Please give a warning to your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u122	While I'm sitting here, I'm applying the Rules of Procedure and I didn't hear the word, "I'm lying." Let's move on. Mr. Krešimir Ćosic is correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u123	Between a series of incorrect allegations, I would say inappropriate improvisations when it comes to such a serious debate on such a serious subject, I quote the following. Mr Milanovic, you said there is no energy policy. There is a Mr. Milanovic, look at page 38. I quote only parts of this energy policy: "secure and quality energy supply, energy efficiency, renewable energy expansion, our energy system will align and connect with the Southeast European energy system, the electricity market will be strengthened" etc. In particular, just one example, there's a series further. Furthermore, Croatia does not create knowledge. That's not true. The past government has made a major contribution to the reform of the education system, participation in the Framework Programme for the European Union. This proves that the knowledge-based economy is very well managed, and that was one new added value, one new quality of the former government, which is very prominent in this government's programme as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u124	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Andrija Hebrang's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u125	Thank you very much. A respected fellow MP incorrectly stated that some members of the proposed government would not pass a check even in neighbouring countries as neither humans nor property status. It's incorrect, it's honorable people, the institutions of this country are checking their citizens and so are those members. And this insult of yours, which you have spoken unfortunately, there is no punishment in the Rules of Procedure, otherwise it should be earned. Secondly, you called part of our citizens a crowd. You probably think it's a poet figure, but the beautiful Croatian expression under the crowd considers it something else. If you think about talking about a lot of people then you can say mass. So the truth is that part of the Croatian people can be called a crowd. And the third amendment. If the majority voted for the left then I ask from this place the State Election Commission to change its conclusion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u126	Thank you very much. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u127	Mr. President, once again, when a colleague spoke, or I would say, he referred an investifier to the president of our party who spoke on behalf of the club when he paid homage to him, or falsely, that the speaker would say, imploded the citizens that they were a bunch. He spoke in principle of the difference between civilization and so on. ... These were the principled points of view, something found in his textbook. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] But you're reinterpreting, of course you're planting everything under the firm, or under this institute, correcting an incorrect assumption. That you've been listening a little better. However, I believe you've heard well, but you've just knowingly twisted and planted something in order to entangle the citizens in this way and in this way. The president didn't insult the citizens or call them a crowd.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u128	Thank you very much. Madam representative, I must. Look, you're calling on, you've corrected and pollemized and replicated the correction of an incorrect quote, and yet not referring to the article you were supposed to refer to when you got the word for correcting the incorrect quote. So you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, too. Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec. You also have a breach of your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u129	And I refer to article 209 that hurt my colleague Hebrang but also you when you react this way because my colleague Milanovic did not talk about Croatian society as a crowd. He spoke of a society that must be a society of tolerance, construction, which builds in a responsible manner and positions in political terms and opposition. If that doesn't seem to be the crowd. Therefore, your colleague Hebrang would be better off listening to MPs who say not to, not to correct what you think they're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u130	Also, it is not, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's the third time you've used and criticized what you're doing but only when it is, someone else is talking. Please, let's be nice and even and principled then to everyone. I'm saying that the breach of the Rules of Procedure you reported was not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's move on. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to say in the introduction that I listened well because after that, I didn't listen, so among other things I heard Mr. Milanovic say they had a strong, strong team, a number team. I would agree that he was a numerous and singing team, that's what we heard there is under the tent but I would disagree if he was a strong team because they fell apart far before the target. When they realized they weren't gonna make it to the finish line, the team fell apart. Next, here is a colleague of the second incorrect allegation that the government is responsible for the collection, my colleague Bozica and I and most SDP members live in an area where the SDP raised utility prices by more than 50%. So much for chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u132	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote by Mr Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is very difficult to correct everything because Mr Milanovic wanted to show disaster in Croatia. From the institutions... with the European Union, energy and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was supported by the fact that his option received more votes in the elections as many times as possible and in the media people counted and published because he had said so before. I claim here that it is incorrect, and Mr. Lucinu and what Mr. Milanovic said is not true. Thus, there is no need in the congregation to speak such false things as people have counted. And this option got a lot more votes, and Mr. Milanovic with this simply does not recognise the result of the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u134	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u135	Mr. President, you have injured Article 214, paragraph 5, which says: When one of the MPs insults the president or counsel, you are obliged to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u136	I don't know what the insult was about, and we're moving on. Let's move on. It's Mr. Prime Minister's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u137	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't mean to answer, react to the first appearance of an opposition MP, but I will simply do it for the truth and for what the Croatian citizens now are watching or who will be reading or listening to the truth through the media tomorrow. And they heard it from the Electoral Commission. The 25th November elections were won by the Croatian Democratic Union... The will of Croatian citizens and your comforts, Mr. MP, for your electoral defeat, leave it at home because it is false. [[Applause]] No matter what you think, how you interpret Croatian voters have decided that HDZ is the country's strongest political force. They also gave us support based on last year's work in the past term. Therefore, the will of Croatian voters who are, and I repeat, I have said it 10 times and I will say it here in the campaign. The voters are the ultimate instance of democracy. You're your interpretation that I don't know for which reason you're performing you're not going to change. They decided that HDZ has the highest number of votes and that HDZ has the highest number of mandates. If you had been given a higher mandate, it would have been "show" that you would have done. And we have 10 seats higher and we're listening to what you're saying that you won the election, that left option won. She didn't win the left option even if you counted on votes you don't have the right to count on because you didn't go to the pre-election coalition. If you went to the pre-election coalition with the HNS then it would not be a left option again because it is HNS, I will not interfere but is in the liberal family of European parties, and liberal families are, but when you can interfere with the HNS and other parties I can also give an IDS rating which is also in the liberal family of European parties and HSLS that is in the liberal family. So you'd be collecting everything you need to achieve most of your left center. You could only make most of the SDP because you went to the polls alone. As HDZ went to the elections alone, and then since I did, I spoke about it in the best possible coalition potential we also achieved the government. You wanted this post-election period of the November 25th election not to be 1-0 for HDZ but to be 3-0. The first time we win the elections, the second time for, a fight for the prime minister and the third time today we will vote the government and that will be 3-0. You could've gone cheaper. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u138	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u139	It's a false allegation, it's an incorrect allegation, it's an incorrect assumption that I'm falsifying the results of the election. That's a misrepresentation, gentlemen. And the incorrect interpretation of my words, society is more complicated than the mathematics that you're obviously an expert on, and I'm saying here what the mood in society is and what citizens and voters are like, and what the mood in this assembly is. Because as we've seen, no one has interrupted, but this is what we're going to have to learn... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u140	Please allow the representative to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u141	So society, gentlemen. is that crowd I was talking about is something more complicated than the way you realize it, but in that we're going to differ in these four years. [[Intruder: Please!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u143	Your Honor, Mr. President, future Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Representatives. I'm not going to start by collecting votes of election but the fact is, it was logically still 23.11. after the first election results dropped that the government would be reassembled by Mr Ivo Sanader. The IDS won't vote for that government. We don't have a voter's mandate for that, that's why. But I would like something else, that this government is successful because it depends on its success and how Croatian citizens will live. I'd really like that. Now let's move on. The way the government was born, let's not say it was beneath all dignity, but it wasn't correct. To a large extent, it was the corruption of the electoral body, it was often an idealess negotiation, marginally, forgot about the essential problems, the cost of life, the need to cut VAT to food from 22% to 10%, the growth of interest that someone had already talked about. A set of kunas that demote exporters, an external debt that gentlemen today exceeded 32 billion euros. We are only last year or this country has returned 7.8 billion euros. Over the next four years, we will pay back about 25 billion euros, our external debt for four years will no longer be 32 but 50 billion euros. Health care where we get ceilings on pregnant women, whether it's Sibenik or Pula, no one's raised their voice against Christmas Eve. Something was said about textile industry, forestry, this programme shows privatisation of shipbuilding. There was talk of change, and everyone forgot about it. The central topics were the changes in article 97, the ban on working on Sundays, the ban on smoking, the fear of being said to be discussing places, and God forbid it was all based on places in the government because maybe it would cost the citizens less, it was about ZERP, NATO, GMOs, the village o.k. that anyone who has one cow or one hectare gets incentives, but dear friends, the question is, can only these topics be drawn to this country? It's running away from how I'm experiencing it from a problem, from a need. And that says in my court, that the current coalition was long ago capsized, but about that later. I don't think they're either HDSS or HSS etc. I think Mr. Friscic and Mr. Pupovac would be in the government today. You know, 96% of the money in this government will be controlled by HDZ, or 75% of their mandates at only 3% or 4%, 25% of the coalition made up of minorities and several political parties. I also know that because of the government's failure to put together now, that left center has a problem, and I also admit that we have a big problem. All of this we see when it comes to the formation of the Government of the Right Centre, it would be similar if the Government were to form a left center, with the certainty that those who are now in coalition with the HDZ in that government would have a far greater impact. When I say that the left hand will have a problem with the one we belong to, and that's how we feel. I think of the fact that Croatia is likely to enter the European Union in 2010, 2011 and the possibility of the possibility of repeating similar election results as in 2003 is something that is frustrating to me. And then if one is acting in power from 90 to 2015, and that's 21 years, and the other is only four years, that says that this left center has problems and something needs to be done here. But I want to believe that things can change in the next election. If someone's done anything to change power, I think it was Damir Cain. The same policy that was going on, now I'm going to go a little regionally to Istria, I think it was Stepmom. Mr. Lino Cervar to whom I wished every good in the European Championship yesterday and today and his handball players, he calculated it, and probably that information was given to him by Mr. Shuker, that this space had received 2.7 billion kuna with decentralised funds from 2004 to 2007. No one to mention that there's 40 billion kuna going from that space to the state budget. From the total income Zagreb gives 12% of its income, Istria 6, Primorje-Gorski County 2.3%, I see others as a rule coming back. For 17 years, good Istria has not had a war, neither is Zagreb, Rijeka, someone gives and very little returns. We're not asking him to come back just to take less and it's enough for one to work, and then the other to share it. Why would these negotiations, too, say the ruling coalition, have been transparent? None of you gentlemen talked about how to create something but just how to spend something, which, in some ways, comes into the state budget and can no longer be that simple, and especially can't and shouldn't go a permanent punishment of some space. If there was only 4.2 billion kuna for Rijeka, Split, Trogoir shipbuilding in 2006, 2007 and Istria zero kuna, then I also interpret it as politics against Istria. If there were 360 million kunas for the Bridge University and their hospital in the last year, and for the heart rate, 11 million kunas and that's politics against Istria in some way. If one square metre is purchased in Slavonia by 0.5 to 1.5 kuna, and in Istria is 20 to 100 kuna, then for me it is a policy against Istria. If the Peljek Bridge goes to 3,4 billion kuna, and for the tunnel through Učka no kuna, then it is a policy against Istria as it is now going to the port in Gazenci, and I have not noticed that there is one kuna or that it went for one similar project in the area of this electoral unit, and on the other hand I will mention that the export of per capital to Istria was in 2007, 5 thousand 43 dollars, in one of the most developed Croatian counties of Primorje-goran all thousand $742 or the difference is as much as $3,301 per capita, and yet we have on the other hand the most expensive basket that is just down in Pula, and I am convinced that the pensioner with a thousand and 500 kuna in one Buzet or Pula lives just as hard as the pensioner with a thousand and 500 kuna in one Opatija, Split, Osijek, etc. And I can say that. I don't know. I'll think of a "Quiet", "TPS", "The Oilies", "The First Maidens", "Cimosa", "The Buzet brewers". Today things are set more or less, at least down. Today, opportunities are being developed by momentum, and as much today, I don't know Istria, and other parts of it give a lot of political parties, it doesn't matter what it is, when it comes to the economy, even though we all know that without them, it just doesn't work. I repeat again, Istria cannot be given, but it can be less taken and the HDZ has not developed this space in the past 17 years but Istria has been developing itself, and the Istrian money has been developing Croatia and who does not admit it, it is simply not sincere and who does not see it is not well-intentioned and has wrong intentions. Istrian politicians, as well as everyone else in this House, have a task, which yesterday spoke the President of the Parliament to fight clearly for national interests, for its end, for some universal values and not to overrun the pride of the end. It's politics, everything else is prostitution. If you're with the people who gave you that mandate clearly, then they'll respect you. If you let them down, if you cheat on them, they won't give you another chance. I will say once again, we are not asking anything other than to be taken less, to decentralisation Croatia, to manage our own on our own. The central government should create precisely that everyone starts to manage their own to a greater extent, and such a government would always support it. Where in this agreement, I have a government program, and a coalition agreement. They're literally identical, copied into each other, mentioning Istria. Page 56 is moving to privatization shipbuilding. It's an Oilman. I don't know which of the Istrian politicians will stand behind it. On page 73, it is said in the tourist land that as I read it looks like it will belong to hotels. It's not good. In this whole material, another reference is to the tunnel through Učka, i.e. the ipislon. Croatia will certainly halve its unemployment in the period 2008-2012. I'm sure of it. It'll be harder to reach workers than work. If the administration doesn't stop us from investing after Croatia's entry into NATO, it will be this year, I think that these new investments, the greenfield investments mainly on the Adriatic where they've been since the '90s. By 2008, five new hotels with more than 150 beds were not built, we release reconstructions, and we have thousands of kilometers of coast and thousands of islands. Then I don't know where that money can be drawn. The government has, we see a strong reserve in Croatia's electricity industry where certain parts are mentioned to be privatized. We're against it. Most likely this will be done according to the THT model, and if the ministers are not caught in, the people would say jam, I'm really afraid that easily this team can repeat another mandate, and that the real problems, external debt, exports, health care, pensions, will hardly be solved even though I kept repeating the same sentence on the 50th tribune that the best social policy is full of employment, that the best policy for young people is full of employment, because where happiness is greater than when a young man comes to work and starts to worry about creating his own family as is also probably the best policy of old full-time politics, that at least children can come to work, not that they are on their coats with a thousand or 2,000 kunas as they receive. When it comes to corruption, I guess it's stronger than us and it's going to be the central theme of future elections with redistribution. Two sentences about the village. Gentlemen, tell me who to take from you once. What kind of policy is it to only talk about redistribution, not creation? The village, all of us, with so far's policy of socialism, has been brought further simply to the brink of survival. When I talk about policy so far, I mean all of us. It doesn't matter. I claim that in a whole series of parts, even down at my place today it is far more desirable to live in the country than in one Poreč, Umag, it is not important, Novigrad etc., but that these people might need to live parallelly not only from the village, but also have a safe job somewhere on the side, he and their family. I'm glad there won't be any new taxes, especially the one on the property, because it would be a disaster, but I regret that there's an opposition looking for an opportunity in some other election. This mandate will be a song according to the present, Croatia no longer has a problem with The Hague, ZERP is a sweet mother to The Hague, unless we regulate this hunting season and that. Croatia enters NATO and the European Union, Croatia has to sell Croatian electricity, unemployment is falling, the economy is autonomous, the only real problems are the meaning of corruption, inaction with the administration, bribed institutions, health care, export, external debt, the fact that 20% of Croatian citizens live below the poverty threshold either because of receiving, whether because of age or because of illness, whether their pensions. Clearly, it is not easy to run any government. We admit that. It's not easy to run a single municipality, let alone run a national government, but the opportunities were better than in 2003, as they were in 2003, better than in 2000, etc. And that's why we had to win the election. So be it for all of us with happiness, but what will determine Croatian politics can be a social blow. That's what I'm afraid of. I won't say it's going to be hungry, but many won't just be full. This pricey blow that is now in action is simply becoming intolerable. I welcome the Prime Minister's resignation. Unfortunately, he spoke more about Croatia's position in the world than Croatian citizens, from which they live, how their pensions are, and how our nursing homes, health homes, etc. He spoke more of Bosnian Croats and neighbours than of us. It's important because it's supposed to show a message to the world, absolutely to the neighborhood, but we live here, and what a bunch of citizens tang is their personal standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u144	Thank you very much. We have a few corrections. Please concentrate really on the correction and it'll be faster, everything will go. Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u145	Your Honor. Agent Cain here said that this government has corrupt the electoral body. I'm not going to say that Agent Cain is telling a lie, but I don't think he's being referred or most likely quickly forgets the period when the IDS took part in a coalition government somewhere in 2000, which was basically a eclipse for Croatia's social policy. I don't think there's a need, we all know very well what this socialist government is and what damage it's done to workers at the time from the pay cut to the move from the bankruptcy law to the second row, the reduction of maternity benefits, and now not to mention a whole series of social measures that went to the expense of workers, so it would be smart and good when we're criticising, let's also be self-critical. Because, you know, the one who's ashamed of his past doesn't have a future, because otherwise this is just empty barking per month, and I don't think that saying that voters are bought can only be said that this government has been correcting the mistakes of the four-year coalition government that reduced the social rights of workers and citizens. /Applause./ [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u146	Mr. Representative! This, let's not bark at the moon, this kind of parabola we make, etc. That's not right. And me, who answered for Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain. [[Intruder: Cain.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u147	This Regulation shall enter I'm glad you warned Mr. President Mr. Kunst. And I would just tell him that he can keep barking but in front of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u148	The same remark applies to you, with you repeating it, so it's a little bit even worse. So come on, I suggest we avoid such expressions. It will be easier for all of us and the Parliament will in some way carry out these tasks. Here, there's still a correction to Mr. Silvano Hrelja's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u149	Mr. President! It is an incorrect statement by counterpart Caine that voting for this IDS government would change the voter's will since IDS is a liberal party and a regional party. And it is true that in the event of this government's support by the IDS, it would certainly cease manipulation of voters. And my colleague Cain would keep a lot of promises he made to the pensioners. Because IDS has three omens. In Istria there is a little left, in Croatia a little left, and only on the right in Europe. It's about like a camel. Second. The best social policy is not simply a full-time policy at all costs of colleagues, Cain. The best social policy is a lot of well-paid jobs and thus excludes the jobs of self-preservers and waiters that are contained in some projects in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u150	Thank you very much. We have a correction to Mr. Nevio Šetić's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. I must correct an incorrect quote or, as some have said today, perhaps insufficient information, information. Because it retreats multiplely that the young Istrian university, the Pula University that this government has allowed to function, that it has won 11 million and that it is a bridge 300. First... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This would be completely wrong and not comparable at all because the fact is that Pula University is funded like any other university and teachers receive salaries, students get those support they have, student standard and everything else. I take it this may be wrong here, but I want to link it to this 2.7 billion that this government has invested in Istria and the 40 that is leaving. We'll never get to the truth about that methodology. And where are the pensions that, where are all state-owned enterprises, where are the schools that are financed, hospitals? So I think we should take another methodology for assessing the same things. But in any case, I'm doing well that some big projects that are announced like the train tunnel through Učka and the Istrian Ipsion, the highway, are still going to have to pay for something.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u152	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Cain said investment is 3 to 4 billion in the construction of the mainland bridge – Pelješac v Istria because it is not allegedly invested in the Učka tunnel. Well, colleague Cain, it's not against Istria. This is for the development of Peljesac, Korčula, Lastova, Mljet, Dubrovnik coast, Dubrovnik, Konaval, the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And that is the benefit of all Croatia because it finally connects Croatia into one whole. It's another thing. For us from Dubrovnik, I personally trust and trust everyone in our county and the city is glad when we get to Istria, when we can pass through Učka tunnel and now there will be a second pipe and train tunnel too. We're also so glad that soon it will be a full profile of the Istrian Ipsylon highway. The highway has not reached us yet, but we look forward to highways in Istria as we look forward to the arrival of highways in Dubrovnik and the mainland bridge – Pelješac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u154	Correction of what? ... He can't because it's, he can't do business. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who is it, Mr. Antun Vujic, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u155	Mr. President! I wouldn't answer or like to answer things like this. But this beginning of the session of this Parliament. You have now allowed a whole series of those who have applied for corrections to incorrect allegations to actually harm Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. This is how we do extra discussion. If we're going to be talking here, I mean, actually discussing, we can follow the English Parliament's standard where there's really no other way but all the corrections of the incorrect quote and... a little longer, longer than three minutes, but I think it's limited anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't make sense and it won't make any sense if you don't intervene energically with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and it says directly that it has to stick to the subject and correct only the material facts. These are all impressions, you have to break this now at the beginning because we're not going anywhere and we're actually going to compromise Parliament's work. And I'm afraid that's how we started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u156	Mr. Vujić! I want to repeat and forgive me what, I must explain or explain this remark of yours. I never challenged all those who warned about incorrect corrections of incorrect allegations or partly incorrect corrections of incorrect allegations. But I expected you to say that since this morning, there have been at least three raises of this plate around the breach of the Rules of Procedure and each time it has been incorrectly raised that... And it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So far, if we don't change the Rules of Procedure and I plead to change it and make it precisely all regulated, then there won't be a chance that someone will treat this or that institute that is incorrectly applied in this House. Until then, there is nothing left for me but the fastest to understand the institute of correcting the incorrect allegations and to tolerate the injuries of the Rules of Procedure which are also incorrectly here, on several occasions here have been highlighted. So what's on one side and on the other, the practice doesn't need to now ask me to arbitration on one case rather than arbitration on another case. I want to even the practice, and so please, we're going to propose an addition to the Rules of Procedure and ask that we prepare ourselves to make these things, because there's a lot of unnecessary time here being spent around this. I totally agree with that. But I have to solve this problem together. Here, I don't intend to explain this anymore, but this is simply true. And we still have one correction to Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Cain's to prove his belonging to the left claims to our coalition partners, and we've noticed that the trend has already become to have far greater influence in some left-wing government, which is absolutely incorrect. In fact, most of us remember a coalition government that was where the SDP headed that coalition of its largest partner sat in several parties, your party, and I won't say a few more but almost forced you out. So that's the influence of coalition partners at the left center. Furthermore, it is also incorrect that the government has something against Istria because it is a square meter in Istria from 50 to 100 kuna. Comrade Cain, our agency in St. Sunday will tell you that the square meter is from 50 euros to 300 euros and we don't feel that the government has anything against us at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u158	This is the correction of the incorrect claim. However, in the broadest sense, the correction is an incorrect quote if the MP says it's incorrect what you said and that's exactly what I'm saying, no matter what the argument is. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSLS and HSU club, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u159	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, candidates for vice presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The Constitution of the Government is usually a solemn act in the European parliamentary democratic states regardless of all political battles, of heated passions, of mutual quarrels, of political competitions, of plantings, of debauchery, of the government's constitution is most often or almost always a solemn act because it is a constitutional act but also of a legitimate act. In doing so, parliament, parliamentary majority and citizens who have chosen us all actually legitimateize a certain order, and this legitimacy act is actually the way in which political will flows into certain mathematical quantitative proportions. But when reality is too ceremonial and we can even say the circus girl in which we often participate, then in fact the ceremony and the solemn acts are mostly banalized or tried here about disputes, corrections, corrections, corrections of corrections and various other methods actually come down to something banal, something everyday, something quite ordinary. I beg you, for the sake of dignity above all of us, for the sake of all those citizens who went out to the elections and gave someone their trust, for these people sitting here waiting to be elected and who are already as long as you can start tomorrow if you want to criticise, we do so in the atmosphere of mutual tolerance and realize that this solemn constitutional act is also a legitimate act. Everything in Croatia is really happening in something we can call and what I said we should declare a social patent, post-election campaign. All countries have pre-election campaigns, and we have had, but it is truly amazing that in Croatia this puzzling post-election campaign is going on, and then the election results are not recognised, and then the election results are interpreted, and then the votes are being raised to everyone, and then it's trying to prove in some way that the left has the advantage or that it has more votes. Ladies and gentlemen, mathematics is inexorable. Let's stop dealing with metamatics, let's stop trying the meta-lingual way of actually interpreting what are very exact quantitative indicators, the parliamentary majority was formed yesterday, and today it's really a matter of choosing the government. There was talk here about the difference between mass and civilization's prehistory. Somehow, mankind progresses, says Kant, raising itself. So I believe that Croatia's democracy is progressing too, I won't say as Cain goes on, but it's progressing slowly, gradually in that we're raising ourselves, and it's certain that one of the phases, one of the steps in being brought up, is what we're doing today and what we've been doing for a month. As much as anyone liked it and as much as they talked about it today, and I have to say that those in politics and even more who couldn't stand it, so they showed the right face to both blackmailers and hostages, and to people who set up ultimatums, and to political Lilyputans and losers, and to political dead people, and I don't know how not so ugly. However, we have just done what distinguishes political democracy from other forms of government. We finally made it, we finally brought it in, we finally negotiated and concluded a real programme coalition agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, you may like it or not, but all the coalition European governments are resting on a clear programme coalition agreement exactly as ours is. As soon as tomorrow, I repeat, criticise. However, the fact is that it was necessary to finally do so in Croatia because "the vervain of the volunteer, the script of the manent", so words are scattered into political smoke sometimes or most often. However, what is written remains. In this agreement, we have finally stated to the coalition programme agreement what will be done in four years of programming and programming. We may not have introduced everything, perhaps the opposition will say that their expectations have not been met, but this is what you will actually be able to monitor and monitor what coalition parties in the government have promised or imposed themselves as topics and as a programme, which they have actually implemented. In that sense, I think that the coalition agreement that has been translated into a fundamental document of government action is strategic and general, so it advocates the adoption of certain strategies that are normally in Croatia so as not to deceive citizens either. We're strategy masters. We have in the last eight years as far as I'm concerned, we have a strategy almost from the locomotive to the universe. However, we have not turned a strong, strong, or almost any of this into reality. And you know that life most often resists excessive administration, especially that we can testify as liberals. Life does not allow too much norm and too many specific strategies but in this sense this document has its own strategic generality but also has operational particular points. Operationally, taxed. In this sense, this document is comprehensive and contentable but on the other hand opens up enough opportunities for me to say in the operational action that I would say in the daily work hectic of government things are actually sort of reduced to the measures and moves that the government will have to make on a daily basis. Similarly, this document will be taxed on both the general and national interests of Croatian citizens but will also state the entirely existential interests of Croatian citizens. I'll tell you what, this is the first document I remember that advocates this and clearly states that in 4 years, all the road crossings need to be protected. Someone will say it's banal for the document. And I'm telling you that is of great existential importance to Croatian citizens. So we finally came to the conclusion that we are no longer just discussing the EU, the Hague, strategic documents, but finally starting to introduce these things into the programmes. I'll tell you this as mayor of the city who protected and now the last one, the last crossing protects how important this is for Croatian citizens. Therefore, all those who have not already read it to the end today or perhaps slept through what they have read speak of being just a list of good wishes, let them look at how many of these are operational, I would say particular, existential questions for Croatian citizens. Not to mention the lowest pensions, not to mention the increase in the social base and so on. There's no point in talking about everything in detail. You can read it. What's certainly good, what we've kind of consensually accepted in the pre-election campaign, no matter how we do it. Some will say they have better measures, some will, of course, argue they know more, is the fact that for the first time it is stated that education will grow at a rate of 10 to 15%. I hope so, knowing so far Mr. Primorac's former secretary, his responsibilities for education that it will be 15%. I'm asking you to. Croatia has only three development chances. The first is education. The other is education. And there's a third education. And all the things that we've talked about that Damir Cain has been good at, all these great measures and economic and energy, agriculture won't actually bring anything if we don't invest first of all in education, so let's just say it's good to say that in the agriculture chapter the first time mentions the education of farmers, lifelong education because you know that farmers who won't have certificates won't be able to use the SAPARD or will not be able to report for the SAPARD programs. Just one detail of the individual again. So we all agree together that education becomes truly the fundamental value of this society. Exactly what we may have talked about most in HSLS in the campaign. It is equally good to finally mention both the food and the processing industry. Gentlemen, I agree with Damir again. We only invested too much in shipbuilding. Of all the vertical support consumed by Croatian society almost or over 90% have swallowed shipyards, and workers, mostly workers, 90% in Vartex, MTC, Karlovac or elsewhere. Or the ones in the leather industry. Or the ones in the wood industry actually haven't seen anything since the inciting. So it's good that we've led 700 million kunas to be thought to invest in the textile industry. That he means to invest in the leather industry, in the wood industry. Of course with horizontal support. Of course, the possibility of sectoral integration between education and the economy. To invest more in research programs. That's what I think is in this economic programme and what we can still see as progress at least as regards these strategic documents compared to before. And what I would like to say for the end as a small curiosity of elections, of course, shows a certain political cartography of Croatia. The HDZ mostly received votes or most votes in the south. The SDP is slightly higher in central Croatia. HSS and HSLS are the same in northern and central Croatia. It is also good to congratulate the Prime Minister that there are a lot of people in the government or there will be those who live right in northern and central Croatia. And we could even tell in a joke when we take the government and the Parliament that we have two Koprivnicans, Podravci, 3 Bjelovars. So maybe the government headquarters could be halfway to the Virus. That's got to be good. It is good, therefore, that this political cartography is in some way being translated into this cartography, territorial cartography, into political cartography so that all parts of Croatia are represented in the Croatian government so that we do not get to see the results of the elections as some sort of territorial confederal tendency rather than actually show that all corners of Croatia are unique in order for Croatia to develop as a democratic society, as a society of prosperity. We, of course, support HSLS and are really glad that our president will also be Deputy Prime Minister for Internal Policy. I think Monday we should think about both energy and the wave of collection and anti-corruption programs, everything that makes one efficient, internal policy and an efficient public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u160	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that at 11 o'clock and 13 minutes has passed the time to report for a ten-minute hearing. And I would also like to inform you that five other clubs and 33 representatives have applied for the debate. That's what I'm saying, of course, with the hope that maybe if someone wanted to give up the debate, they'd give up. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u161	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and future members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak to the Parliament in a new assembly and, somehow, before I begin on this subject, I would like to say that over the years, Parliament is still developing. This will be the beginning of the mandate of one government, but it will be the beginning of our mandate, and I think it would be good, useful and important to try to function as Parliament and not as a football stadium, to function by listening to each other, discussing the most intense arguments, but not with cheerleading passions, not by trying to silence each other because it will lower the dignity of each of us, and the dignity of this institution, which as much as we appreciate or despise it, is the only rights of the dam in each country of dictatorship. Therefore, by appreciating this Parliament and all the people in it, arguing however hard you will, but at the same time understanding what this institution is, we are holding on to something which is why we were primarily elected here, which is why I suppose we all originally wanted to enter politics together. Now to go back to the government program that's here before us and what's our main topic and it should be the main topic this morning. I have an organisational, technical remark that I don't think is irrelevant and that should be avoided from happening in the future, which is that this programme of the government on the bench came this morning. The other thing is that everyone assumed that this programme was a government and coalition agreement that has been on the Internet for some time, but the government programme cannot get members of Parliament five minutes before they have to discuss it, because it is one of the most operationally important documents discussed in this House, so I hope that such things will no longer happen in Parliament. As far as the program is concerned, the program is a mix of everything and everything. The problem is that it's very uneven, the level of generality absolutely cannot be determined. The programme determines such things as Croatia's participation in reforming the United Nations, up to the level of determining the level of concession of the 10% note for the use of geothermal water. My colleague Chehok used to say how important the ramps were. Of course they're important, but the government programme can't be that the government will be government, that it will do what's in the daily job description, that it will do a number of things that will be the subject of, say, the decision of the government's session. The government's programme is that this government, along with what its regular affairs and obligations are, will work further differently with some vision of development, which is the goal of leading the country over the next four years. In that sense, this program is a set of different things and reminds me of a warning that our logic professor has highlighted to us as an example of a wrong methodology or a wrong procedure by saying that it's impossible to share handcuffs on gray, brown and cunning, because something in the sharing criteria is wrong. So here's something about the criteria for determining the themes that are included in this program, it's just not right. The goals are very general. There is no clear vision of where Croatia will take this step, this new step from what we have not seen or what we have not seen before, which we have not decided so far, but in this Parliament, where Croatia will function differently, will be more successful than it will finish the jobs that started eight years ago towards the European Union and a little later towards NATO. The only concrete goal to read is the rate of growth of 7%, which is not too ambitious and rate, the polling unemployment rate of 7%. But I'm going to look back at some areas that I'm not only talking about in general, but certain areas that are being discussed in this government programme. I can't at all, of course, but some of which were most discussed in public and where we expected the most innovation and new ideas. One of them is the management of state property, a special part of this programme. We remember everyone, remembers the Croatian public, as much as after the "Maestro" affair was launched, as was said about the termination of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. That decision was supposed to be made sometime this summer, namely last summer. That's not gonna happen. This is where the Croatian Privatisation Fund is spoken of quite insecurely and vaguely, in one part it remains, in the other part it is said that it will remain but will be weakened, and in the third part it is said that it may be abolished. So the government's privatisation programme is that it may stay, it may be weakened, and it may be abolished. The classification of assets in this part of the management of state assets is proposed to be classified on promising and inspective state property. Who's going to classify that? Based on what criteria? It's obviously a huge space. I'm not saying it's intentional, but I'm warning you because I think it's time for a warning right now. It's a huge space for corruption. What's perspective, what's unspective state property. The only criterion is what's expensive and what's cheap state property. There's a clear criterion, it's a market, it can determine what's cheap, which is expensive, and through what's perspective and what's not prospective state property, and this opening of a corruption space will be seen not only from here in this assembly, but believe me, you can see it from Brussels. Property or part of the property from the Croatian Privatisation Fund is proposed to move into closed investment funds, into several closed investment funds, from which only one can read that the situation will be quite non-transparent and no one will ever know who has a review of the state property. Exactly the opposite of what we have warned and what we have been saying over the past period, which is that in some way we need to enable insight, a unique insight into everything the state has and, of course, use the market as a valuation criterion. Regional development is fiscal decentralisation, something we expected the most, which was most talked about. Fiscal decentralisation, to put it short, is gone. It is said that more funds will descend from the state level to the level of municipalities, cities and counties, but it is not said that the original direct revenues of units of local and regional self-government will be decentralised. There's no mention of that. It is only said that on the basis of different criteria, they are also changing through this programme to collect all that money, and then some of it, and by the 2011 election year. 20% to drop to the level of units of local and regional self-government according to some of their own intentions, looking at who, to whom not, using here, I have counted at least four different types of criteria that allow each situation to apply another criterion and justify the drop or drop of money to local and regional levels by some other criteria. The only rights of decentralisation of funds, which then enables the decentralisation of powers, are the decentralisation of the original incomes, so that most of the original incomes are allowed by local and regional self-government units to remain there. It's the only possible way. The rest is once again the dependence of local self-government and regional government on the central government and the state. Therefore, since the major talks on decentralisation, on redistribution of funds, on regional development, there is absolutely nothing in the programme here, but only the state is allowed to operate with more money wherever it pleases, where nothing with units of local and regional self-government will do. I mentioned several criteria, not to waste time on it now, but let's just say in one case it's said that some of the funds that go down to the local level won't be able to use for wages, in other places it's said that they won't look at the kind of costs. It illustrates that for each municipality, the city or county will decide whether or not to. Ecology and environmental protection. There's room, colleagues and colleagues for ZERP. In this area. It's not mentioned in a word. Ecology, environmental protection is a place for ZERP. I warn you, ZERP is not just fish, ZERP is and ecology. Take a look at the Mediterranean map, the level of pollution of the Mediterranean, as far as only one narrow, yellow line along the Croatian coast due to sea current, everything else is black in the Adriatic as far as pollution is concerned. It's an area where you need to start working right away. The fish are to be arranged, to see what can be done, but no one has any objections to the ecology, but no one has included it, the protection of the Adriatic as an integral part of the ZERP in this government programme in some projects that we should work on protecting the environment together with our neighbours, so together with the Italians, along with Slovenians, probably together with other countries that go out to the Adriatic. There's no ZERP. Nothing is said about the completion of a state that is also ahead of us, some of the topics mentioned, the issue of resolving the electoral law, which is not only an electoral law, but the completion of institutional construction of the state, the right to vote by minorities, the double right to vote by minorities. Nothing. There's nothing to say about regulating the diaspora vote that we've now seen is a space for unprecedented manipulation. Justice. Justice, don't say anything at all, the only thing about justice here is better that it's good than it's bad, to cut short what's said. No programmes to be done in the judiciary, the judiciary hangs behind our necks and as an obstacle to the continuation of negotiations, i.e. for successful negotiations with the European Union. And finally, to skip one big part, because obviously I've written a lot more things down here than there is time. You remember the pre-election period, remember the campaign period. One of... motives, one of the main things was education, education as a strategy for Croatia's development, as a cornerstone of Croatia's development strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Education, colleagues and colleagues, from this program has disappeared. Education has a thin two-and-a-half pages, it's not any development strategy, it's mentioned. Let's say, we have a problem, thousands of problems, but one of them is the implementation of Bologna. Nothing about the main obstacles that stand in that way, nothing about the fact that we don't have enough students of technical and natural sciences. It is mentioned only as two points that you will learn a special Croatian language. I welcome it because I really know that there are many people who do not know each other in the written word or in the spoken word to serve very well, but it cannot be the foundation of our education policy. Education, colleagues and colleagues, as a development strategy in Croatia, we will not see from a distance in these four years if the government will adhere to this programme. For this reason, the HNS will not support this government, nor will the government's programme, believing that it is neither in line with what has been pre-election, nor, of course, with the priorities that we believe Croatia should follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u162	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. First is Mr. Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u163	Mr. President! A colleague, Pusic, said that I said that the ramps are mentioned, but that she thinks she shouldn't mention the daily government's daily moves. I'd like to say it's not a daily move, gentlemen. In Croatia you have over 6 thousand seems to me to be crossing. That's only a thousand protected from it. It's a program. I'm convinced, and I apologize to the citizens today, and we won't be able to do it in four years. It's not just short-term, not only not daily, it's not short-term. It's a long-term project. And that's why it's good to stand. Second. I would tell my colleague Pusic since I am one of the authors of this program that she misunderstood decentralisation. The state today has a secure pass-by account. It's a flow account. It's not Shuker's or the government's funds. It's a flow account. And we want to no longer return 9% to local self-government units from that flow, right... It's 20% of the funds coming back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, of course, it's a decentralisation of resources. And third, I'd like to say that on purpose this education chapter is short but concise...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u164	Thank you. Comrade Chehok! It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u165	Well, I know, but I have to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u166	It's a classic replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u167	Three are incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u168	No, no. It's a classic replica of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u169	It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u170	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u171	Because the incorrect assumption that education is not spoken of but that in all possible chapters, both in agriculture and in the economy, you have education in all chapters.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u172	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u173	Your Honor, Mr. President! Commissioner Vesna Pusic said that no one included in this programme of Adriatic protection as an component of the ecological programme, of course speaking about the context of ZERP. I am correcting the incorrect allegation because on page 32, it clearly states that there is a need to continue and strengthen international activities in the declaration of the Adriatic particularly sensitive area and the preamble also says that we should value the relatively well preserved environment in Croatia as our development opportunity. Given that the Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean and that Croatia is the fourth in the world by biodiversity, of course, that this aspect should be taken into account and that it is an integral part of this programme. When it comes to ZERP, I can say that, of course, it is not just fish and fisheries, but management of 25 thousand square kilometers of our territory, but also protection of biodiversity and complete ecologicality of the sea, because it is an integral part of the law that this Croatian Parliament has passed. And I can say with pleasure that for the first time we have the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, so I believe and in this segment we will contribute to protecting the Adriatic in an ecological sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u174	Thank you very much. We have another correction, Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go1
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. In line with the illogical division of foxes into yellow, brown and cunning and your exposure there are several illogicalities. One of them was corrected by a colleague. I would do another in terms of education, because it is clearly outlined what this government does or does and what it intends to do and what it has done in continuity because this is a government that works in continuity. And it's particularly illogical and incorrect, incorrect... The claim when you said that diaspora space is a space for unprecedented manipulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I absolutely reject this for the sake of the Croatian public, because it was in these elections that there was no abuse of any single voter vote, not one voter. However, there were incomplete electoral lists and not all voted who had the right to do so. Therefore, I ask that these lists be made... That's right, it didn't vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why these lists are being renewed, audited, so that everyone else actually has the right to vote. Thank God there was no abuse like some people wanted to show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u176	Thank you. Let's move on. It's the SDSS Club and Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u177	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister! Let us congratulate you on behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Prime Minister and the members of your elected Government on the election. Also allow me colleagues and colleagues to say a few words about how the Independent Democratic Serb Party understands its participation in this government, its support and its role in the Croatian Parliament. We in the SDSS understand politics as the art of possible. A more specific art of what was impossible until yesterday becomes possible today. We have seen in a series of elements that such a policy is possible. That what seemed almost impossible yesterday in terms of interethnic relations might become possible today. What seemed almost impossible yesterday in terms of returning and exercising rights in the areas of return becomes possible. But of course we wouldn't want to stop at that. We would not only like to limit ourselves to this because this would also narrow our own commitment as a parliamentary Croatian party to narrow down the space for action and policy understanding. We from the SDSS in this parliamentary term, in this assembly and in this government will manage the following three principles: the principle of solidarity within Croatia as a state, because it is obvious that solidarity is not enough. There is no between Zagreb and other Croatian regions, nor between Istria and other Croatian regions, nor between touristly developed and economically almost devastated areas and solidarity. And in particular, there is no sense of a sufficiently developed sense of the value of a culture of solidarity in this regard. Especially from those of us who speak the language of politics. The other thing we'd like is social sensitivity. Sensitivity for people who in these fast, uncontrollable sometimes wild elements of transition failed, couldn't even make it, didn't even have a chance to succeed. And we ladies and gentlemen should promote at least a sense of social justice but not only when it comes to SDSS but also develop mechanisms that will be active that this feeling can be visible and that it can be present, and that people can feel it. Finally, the second principle that the SDSS in this Assembly and Government will be supported and entered with full awareness of the validity of this entry will be governed by the principle of civil, inter-human and interethnic tolerance. We are not only past the experience of the bitter war but we are still experiencing the experience of difficult historical divisions because of various political orientations. We of the SDSS do not have much power to influence how these three important orientational principles will work for us, but we will do everything to make our strength greater than our capabilities, to be active living mechanisms of work in this House while being clearly visible and present in the government's actions we support and in which we participate. There are several elements, Mr. President of the Parliament and Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues I would like to warn about the government's programme on behalf of the SDSS club. Areas of special state care for people who have returned there, settled and who will want to live there, and who will still return and settle there must be areas for which the state will develop specific programmes, a special policy that will no longer be just a policy of social, which will not be just a policy of caritative character but will be a policy of development and a sufficient quality of social. We want to and in the programme of this Government, this step will be taken, precisely from the point of view of reconstruction, from the point of view of humanitarian and caritative assistance to this particularly important, important, development and social dimension for all these areas, because every woman and every man, every child living in that area, we in Zagreb cannot imagine what difference, which trials and which concerns they may have in view of the conditions in which they live. And for that reason, we will make sure that these areas, regardless of ethnicity, no matter who makes up the local majority, are focused, on the particular focus of this government. Also, we want it to be kind of our ideal that in every part of Croatia each of its people has equal living conditions. It is not possible to achieve either what we have heard from people who have spoken as part of the ruling coalition or from people who are currently in position. It really has to be a comprehensive job. Without infrastructure that will connect all regions properly, which will allow all people to have quality infrastructure from electricity, water, roads, gas, sewerage to social infrastructure such as kindergartens, infirmarys, bus stations, bus and other connections, we will not be able to talk about the development and equalisation of all Croatian landscapes. And on the other hand, equally without the urgent strengthening of the budget of local self-government units where this should be strengthened and special measures we will also not be able to talk about equating and creating conditions for all people. And then, of course, without the specific development programmes and without the truly effective development policy and mechanisms that will be in its function, it will also not be possible. We from the SDSS as we negotiated with the mandater wanted there to be a Ministry of Regional and Rural Development. We got a new ministry so that we could influence that it might be organised differently, maybe we'd be happier, but this way we're happy. What we think needs to be done in this respect is, of course, an even stronger coordination of the work of a whole series of ministries on which this regional development policy will depend. From the Ministry of Education to, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and of course, the ministry led by Minister Kalmeta. We also think that employment policy, labour rights policy must be in the serious and high focus of this government. The harmonisation of our Labour Act with the European Charter must also be one of the priorities not only because of the negotiating request but also because workers in this country must feel secure and feel protected. We also think that the policy and employment programme of this government must have strong mechanisms at its disposal, with the exception of enhanced funds for the employment policy, the Croatian Employment Service must also be strengthened. It must indeed become, in the right sense, the words of the labour market agency which will be able to ensure the necessary dynamics of that market and give people greater chances and greater prospects of employment. That is why we advocate and we are confident that we will have a cross-resor coordination that will achieve the necessary results on that segment. As far as judicial reform is concerned, it is absolutely certain that many things need to be changed, from which the courts and judges are given such positions that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice have great limitations to carry out a serious reform, to the fact that only the Ministry of Justice should be established in such a way that it can be more effective if more State secretaries are needed, if necessary and more effective management of the administrations that exist within it. The same applies, of course, to the Central State Administration Office, which, as counterpart Pusic rightly says, needs to ensure that electoral legislation is reformed but it is contained in the programme, that government. In segments where we were able to negotiate as a party, in segments where we could advocate reform and when it comes to minority legislation, minority sources but bearing in mind a broader aspect of the reform of electoral legislation, which will likely include a reform of legislation concerning diaspora elections. These are sensitive political issues but we did not hesitate to discuss them and that exactly how we should be sensitive and approach them and approach it with sensitivity. As far as education and culture are concerned, we think that in Croatia we really need to reform some of the elements of our education system that we have no division between us. Not on political or interethnic grounds. And we will be committed to implementing a reform in which all citizens, all children, will be included in this and that the special rights that minority members will achieve will not be based on total exclusion but in addition to what cannot be in the general and national programme. The same applies to the restoration of those cultural values and monumental values that are unforgivable, an important part of our tradition whether it is a distant past, whether it is the past of the 20th century. A lot was either abandoned, much was or was destroyed. We want these important features with this government, these important heritage to become an integral part of our identity and our cultural values, and we believe that in these four years we will do so. As far as politics is concerned, we would, of course, like to develop such relations with our southern neighbours to be mutually beneficial, and members of national minorities to be in the capacity to create mutual trust, improve minority policy in the region and, of course, create assumptions for the affirmation of other policies alongside it. In the end, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister of the SDSS and I as part of this club will do everything possible to make this Parliament and this assembly the most serious debate. When it comes to critical, when it's necessary for analyticals. The way it suits the habitat of each and every one of us. That's what this Parliament needs. My experience in the past term says it's possible. My experience in the past is that this is the best thing that we MPs can give to our people who chose us and to this House of Highs who is his most representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u178	Thank you very much. Now he's asked for the word of the prime minister, Mr. Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the debate of the esteemed representative of Dr. Pupovac, and I would like to add something here. We have already worked very well in the past term not only with the SDSS and representatives of the Serb national minority but with representatives of all minorities, and I have pointed out that we have continued in this programme, in this mandate and that we will continue to benefit all Croatian citizens. But what I particularly want to highlight and thank the representatives of minorities who are here is that we have agreed that each of the agreements says that we will also take care of the Croats in Serbia, the Croats in Italy, the Croatian national minority in Italy. Especially when it comes to Serbia that we will insist. It's a government program. I thank you for the support you have shown as well as the coalition partner in the government that Croatians in Serbia also get the right to vote not on the party list but as a minority community that they can highlight their candidate and join the assembly. I also thank the president, the representative of the Italian minority Dr. Radin, who, together with the Government, will seek to reach the Croatian minority in Italy and to reach in his rights and standards that we have in Croatia, or which standards are accepted in Europe, not of course and unfortunately of all countries, but of the majority. Likewise, I can say for the representative of the Czech minority Mrs. Chuhnil that we have agreed that we will work together to ensure that in the Czech Republic, the Croatian minority who, unfortunately, almost disappeared that it is not allowed to do so but to work together on it. The same thing I would like to say about the Bosniak minority and the representative of Dr. Tankovic, who, to whom we will seek consent with the opposition to the next, if he comes, and will have to change the Constitution so that the Bosniaks and Slovenians will return to the preamble of the Croatian Constitution. When it comes to Slovenians, we will do so and show an example to Slovenia, but at the same time ask them to give them that status in Slovenia. Croatians in Slovenia do not have national minority status. We will therefore take the first step but we will seek and insist that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union and NATO, recognises both the Croatian minority and other minorities who are in Slovenia, who today do not have recognised national minority status. So what I'm saying is that this is also a step further than our work so far and so far, the cooperation I thank you for so far. I look forward to future cooperation, but for the benefit of Croats in other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u180	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives Club appreciates the government's focus to protect and develop the rights of minority national communities in Croatia. It is not only visible from the words addressed today from this speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, in the presentation of the Government, nor just from the cooperation we have had in the past 4 years with the rises and the declines, but which lasted the entire mandate which was not small. They also clearly stem from the fact that agreements concluded by minority representatives and the SDSS with the prime minister today for the first time in Croatia's history were an integral part of the government's programme. It's never happened before, and we welcome that fact. They're part of the government's programme. It is a fact that we must respect and a coalition relationship from which many could learn both in ourselves and in the world. Of course, the negotiations that led to such a result were not easy, but they were equal despite the fact that the relationship in the mandates between minority representatives is always natural, and the party represented and represented by the mandate in an obvious disproportionate manner. The dignity of the participants in the negotiations and transferred to the populations that we represent, the dignity of the national minorities is never questioned, but affirmed from day to day which is of great symbolic value because it speaks precisely about what Zoran Milanovic has highlighted here, I said Zoran Milanovic may listen to me now. The tolerance and the co-existence and solidarity Mr Milanovic speaks of, but that is exactly the kind of agreements we had, they talk about. None of us are naive, we know our voices are worth it. But what I'm saying is that even in times where this relationship depends more on reason than on the heart, I'm using and paraphrasing again what was said here from this pay phone before, they've shown a tendency to last, and that's very important. We are also human because we have reason to tell us that we have to accept the conversation that we intend to have an ideology that is no longer available, that is, that is, almost no longer exists. The paradoxical right center may also be because it has a strong voice of its national sense and identity, shows tolerance for those who express their different minority national sense and identity. We weren't, of course, handling the wing "we're all the same" because it's never true and it's always more the same than you than the slogan "we're all different" and it's always true and it's proved true and it's proved a good basis for discussion and for conversation and for agreements. That is why fellow MPs and fellow MPs have never looked like political trade, and how it might be when it comes to human rights and the rights of national minorities. That's why we minority members from below 1.5% are also grateful to fellow Pupovac who knew with great political wisdom and responsibility to give up a very high office in the government, so that here with us in the Parliament he defends minorities, his minority and other minorities. We appreciate it. The representatives of national minorities, the five of us signed a document, an agreement together except for those individual ones, which defines several fundamental problems common to all minority communities in Croatia. I would like to emphasise the fact that the first point speaks of positive discrimination in the vote and I would like to say that to Mrs Pusic, thank her for mentioning so-called. popularly called double vote, but there is one, not that it is not in this programme, the government's programme, because it is in our agreements that are an integral part of this programme. Even he assumes a model that should be seriously discussed over the next two years. I would just like to underline that fact and record that there is one deadline that we have set together to lift what we consider representatives of national minorities to be discrimination because by choosing between the two constitutional rights, minority members remain always deprived of one. Also bilingualism, i.e. the use of minority languages especially in municipalities that have such statutes, but also in general, is something that represents the very foundation of the social life of national minorities and the constitutional law, and in general the laws which regulate it, have not yet been applied in any way, remains another large area of application. This is not just the government's programme in the version of our agreements, but also the European Commission's guideline. Otherwise, the National Minorities Club is absolutely focused on European and Atlantic integration precisely with this order, European and Atlantic and expects this government to bring us into the European Union and to know how to overcome the obstacles and above all meet the requirements that the European Association and the European Union expect from us. Finally, we would be happy if the proposed government programme in the upcoming human rights mandate mentioned more, and it would certainly be much better to have this area as a separate chapter setting out basic priorities in the protection of human rights, such as further improving the rights of persons with disabilities, gender equality, deinstitutionalisation of social care systems, patients' rights, consumer protection, strengthening of civil society, the development of media, etc. The youth families are mentioned, but we must insist on further strengthening the overall system, human rights in the Republic of Croatia. We would also be happy if there were more in this programme to speak more about decentralisation of political power and regionalisation of Croatia. However, just for the reason I said before, the National Minorities Club as a coalition partner of this government will support this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u182	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u183	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, because I haven't had the opportunity to congratulate you on the election in the Croatian Parliament, so I am using the opportunity now and I believe that the Club of Representatives of the HSS with all the clubs in this House will have correct cooperation. First of all, I think it is an extremely important day, because we are getting a new Croatian government and it will not be the Croatian Government only of those parties that have entered it, it will be the Government of all Croatian citizens. That's why it's of interest to trust all the MPs who are in this House, but also those who are watching the debate, that this government, in any case, is better and more successful than the previous ones. Politics is what people who make it and my deep belief that with more good people in politics and politics can be better. Many here today have said that we need to exclude emotional reactions, that we need to discuss rationally, but whenever we talk about people, of course emotions can't be left behind. Because politics isn't just about us doing business professionally. Politics and politics make up our citizens, those people who want to buy bread don't have enough money for it. And it is our responsibility to try through the best possible people to implement the best possible programmes for this country to move forward so that our citizens have a better standard. The Croatian Peasant Party is not trying to change its fundamental parliamentary relations by this coalition co-operation because it would not be possible, nor were we the main factor in this. But what we want, we want to impose our themes, our themes as specifics of a joint programme to be implemented within this coalition government. In order to have an impact on the implementation of the programme, it is quite logical that we should also be participating in the executive government. I remember the election campaign when many commented on why HSS spent a year and a half working on programs when they wouldn't have a chance to spend it and laughed behind our backs. I remember the polls that went out in various media outlets that said the HSS won't even cross the threshold, so the debate on the programmes is way too high. The HSS isn't even through an election campaign, but neither where we act, and you all know that we have very strong regional and local fortifications, never worked against our coalition partners, nor worked to destroy them. We want to be a constructive coalition partner, and I believe that time will show that it is exactly who we are. When it comes to our programmes, I will mention the one that is our basic programme, the most valuable programme we have promoted, the one we have worked on for a long time, which we have promised and which we will implement because that is, of course, the condition and participation of this government. It is a question of the rebirth of Croatian villages and the survival of Croatian villages. And I'm sorry that many people don't understand what this is about, maybe because they haven't read it or they don't care at all. But many who sit here today came from Croatian villages and I don't think we should forget which table they rose from because they'll have to come back to that table someday. What HSS sees as the key problems in Croatian agriculture is the collapse of the Croatian village because over 100 Croatian villages, or 180 specifically, remain empty, over 2 thousand Croatian villages have less than 100 inhabitants, and 90% of Croatia's space is actually rural space, which means that we are losing the guardians of Croatian space, to lose the guardians of our national rural space. Another problem that HSS sees in agricultural policy is the availability of agricultural land where we offer a completely different concept, because we believe that if we want to develop agricultural production, family farms must enter the holding of agricultural land. It can no longer happen that according to the model of privileged concessions, the rich are rich, and those with one cow fail. And finally, thirdly, what we consider a huge problem in Croatian agriculture is excessive imports of agricultural products that grow year after year and last year exceed $2 billion. The Croatian Peasant Party has therefore offered this programme and we are glad that the coalition partners have accepted it, and I believe that you will accept it, too, because this programme represents a preservation of our national interests. We advocate that people stay in the country, but not to return them to the 19th century, but to introduce the Croatian village into the 21st century. In order for young people to stay living in the Croatian village to provide adequate education, they should be given adequate health care, they should be assured that they have water, roads, sewerage, so that they have the same conditions for those living in the city and then can be created because some have said that they do not see that new jobs will be opened, although it is known that many of you are local officials, so we cooperate, because I was recently a deputy mayor in Sisak-Moslavina County, we have signed a series of agreements on international co-operation. So if one Styria can open two additional jobs through agriculture based on one new job in agriculture, I don't see why one Croatia couldn't do it either. But this process should be approached in a completely different way, through branding of indigenous rural products, because it is not enough to produce only a pig, it should be known to make that pig cool, and then that tower well cash and sell it well. It is bad if we offer imported food to tourists coming to Croatia. This is why the Croatian Peasant Party advocates and it is an integral part of this programme that Croatian peasant product is sold in Croatian tourism, because we know that Croatian tourism accounts for 20% of GDP. We also advocate that payment be paid back with incentives to all, to all family economies, and that they be paid in time. What we are particularly interested in and we are pleased that it has become an integral part of this agreement is that there is no sale of agricultural land to foreigners for the next 12 years, but there is no sale of natural resources, water and forest. What we're already doing where we're acting is trying to create added value through unprocessed agricultural areas in a way that we put them into processing, so we can sow the oil tail and produce renewable energy sources. Here we see also Mrs. Mayor Ozlja where with just the producer of biodiesel in Ozlja my county has achieved exceptional cooperation and where we have managed in some way to create new jobs, fuel to which citizens of the City of Zagreb are driving today, because here for the last 6 months the bus of ZET is driven by biodiesel produced from the oil tail from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is produced in Ozlja. So you need to create assumptions for a different approach to the development of rural space, creating additional income, creating employment and preserving what we are proud of, because it is not enough to basement ourselves in our tradition, and then let that Croatian language, culture... It falls apart, especially the Croatian village that preserved that language, culture and costume. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were also mentions of this as a way that we want to declare Croatia a country free of GMOs. Well, of course we do. We've been working on it for 10 years, and we're gonna do it in this term and we're gonna do it. This is not just a matter of protecting agricultural production, it is a matter of protecting biodiversity, which I have already said is Croatia's fourth in the world and which can be the engine of a different development. In the end, Croatia was also declared 2008 or indicated that it would be a tourist destination if it turned to one of the green types of tourism. A well-preserved environment in Croatia should be used as a developmental opportunity. We think we know how we can do it. And above all, it is necessary to focus on the development of eco-agricultural and eco-tourism and to encourage self-employment in this segment. There were comments that, and it was actually one of the main comments that filled the pages that this coalition would deal with only a smoking ban because that measure was good and everyone supported it because people died of lung cancer. But this coalition will no matter how funny it may be for some to deal with modernising the refinery in Sisak, Rijeka, Petrochemy in Kutina, because there people die of lung cancer, bronch, respiratory system because of the neglect of those who run such large and public enterprises. I agree with those who have said that people are important and that they will implement programs. And I've only partly highlighted the programs that are important to the HSS and why the HSS is part of this coalition government. And that's why I'd like to say a few sentences about the people who are going to represent the HSS in this government. I hope the other one doesn't mind. The HSS has offered its best people here, the Master of Božidar Pankretić as Minister of Agriculture, not because he was the Minister of Agriculture and has experience, but because he has been working through one of his professional work on the topics that we consider to be the biggest problem in Croatia today. And because he's been a big part of this program. Mr. Damir Bajs, who is one of the most successful mayors in Croatia. For 8 years, the president of the Community is a county, but also a man who is not hard to go to the field, who is not hard to solve problems and who is open to cooperation because as far as I know Mr. Bys in his county support all political options, so probably when people recognize all the political parties and give him their trust. I must say that I personally want the Minister of Tourism and that I am glad that it comes from the continental part of Croatia that when it comes to my Moslavina will say that I see that you are trying, that you are working on these wine roads, I will help you. I personally want the Minister of Tourism who, when he comes to my Posavina and sees the Posavina houses and when he sees Krapje, the European village of construction heritage or Cigoč, which is declared the European village of storks, will say, you are guarding this area and therefore I will help you. I want the Minister of Tourism who when he comes to Baranja will say, you know you really know how to make a spectacle of the gastronomic offer and that's why I'm going to help you. That's the kind of tourism minister I want. I believe Mr. Byce will at least partially fill my cells. And I am convinced that Master Pankretic will do well to implement the program "The Rebirth of Croatian Villages" because it is the only way for the Croatian village to survive. These are the arguments for which the Croatian Peasant Party and of course these are the people behind whom the Croatian Peasant Party stands and supports this programme and this coalition government. But of course, no support is unreserved and that we will be careful how the program is implemented, how consultations are carried out, and expect maximum correctness. Repeat. HSS is in power in Koprivnica-Kryzeva County, Bjelovarsko-Biogorje County, Krapina-Zagorje County, Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb County, Zagreb City, where our partners are both SDP and HNS. And I don't think any of them could ever complain about HSS' correctness that we've always been a correct coalition partner. That's how we're gonna be in this government. But we also expect those who share power with us at the level of these counties or municipalities and cities, as well as at the state level, to reciprocate with the same measure of correctness. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u184	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u185	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2011 and I would like to say a few words about it on behalf of the club. This program is ahead of us as ensnared and summed up. It extends to over a hundred pages, covering as many as 28 chapters, so it is comprehensive and refers to all areas of life in our country. What is good in this programme is constantly moving through the financial component of this plan so that we can see accurate budget expenditure forecasts for some chapters such as chapter two, chapter five, ninth and tenth as the most important expenditure chapters. And if in this whole program we wanted to take out a suffix or its core, then I would refer to the specifics in the chapter of macroeconomic policy as the most important. In the chapter of macroeconomic policy, this programme clearly highlights several of the most important factors of Croatia's further prosperity through the development of its economy. It is primarily a provision that a state budget balance policy will continue to be implemented as it has so far in order to balance it by 2010. This is a very optimistic goal that has not been set, let alone been spent by many European Union countries and by no country in transition. I am sure that with Prime Minister Sanader, the new government will achieve that goal. Why is he important? This means that by 2000, we will have income equal to expenditure, that we will not have to invest further abroad, but that the money we are now paying on interest for these debts abroad will be able to invest in their own economic programmes. This is the continuation of the government's policy because it also halved in its four-year period the share of the government's debt, therefore, of the state's foreign debt. I'm not talking about the debt of banks and private entrepreneurs. The debt goes into the total debt of the state, not covered by the government. It is a debt that is high-quality because these loans that have been achieved and invested in the Croatian economy will create new jobs and improve technology in our economy. That is why this provision is far-reaching, most important and deserves this emphasis. The second thing that is quality here is that it is predicted that the programmes from the budget will be evaluated as much more carefully as so far and for each programme on the burden of the state budget here are the two specifics that determine it and that is to be calculated so-called. Cos benefit or possible benefit and profit from that programme according to the price invested from the budget in it. And secondly, a much stronger internal audit will be set up in the ministries to spend state money, i.e. national money from the state budget. And the third rule in macroeconomic policy but which is much wider than that is the commitment that the government has imposed on itself, which is very difficult, it is the introduction of a tax number. The tax number will not only be a significant step in creating a rule of law, it will also be a very significant step in introducing a fair social policy because it will only be the tax number that shows who is really in social need and who abuses it. And I assure you, the enormous resources that go to so-called today. social programmes will be translated into real social programmes and will make a significant contribution to those who are in a particularly social need. There is no need to stress the next important fact of the social number. The social number will enable and be, the sorry tax number will be the most important medicine in curbing corruption. Why and how? Because the tax number will also show the flow of money to every individual but also its property, and avoid the possibility of obtaining real estate with dirty money. What some say is transparent will be done, and I would rather say clearly what we bought and what we sold and what we earned. And only then in Croatia will what exists in other countries already happen, although under the table you earned the dirty money you won't be able to buy anything for it because it will be visible. Therefore, the tax number will have multiple benefits, economic, social and corruption at the threshold. And that's why I congratulate the government on these brave projects. As for the other parts of the Government of Croatia programme, they are in an economic and developmental sense a continuation of what the Government has done these four years and that is good and that is logical, and what someone said has not changed many people in the government. It is good because they started well and it is a guarantee that it will also continue well with the refreshment of our coalition partners who will certainly contribute significantly to this quality. So what do we see in this program? We see further growth in gross national income. I remind you that in the term of office of this government, the mandate behind us reached as much as 7% last year. This is the highest percentage of gross national income growth in Europe, of course among countries in transition. I'm sure that's the way to this program, this government will continue. I mentioned that the government's duties abroad have fallen and that gross national income has increased. But those two facts need a good connection. Therefore, gross national income did not rise at the expense of increasing the government's share in debt but rather in reductions, and it grew on the basis of an increase in the industrial production index and the industrial production index grew in these four years in continuity with several small slowdowns that were transient and short-lived. Investments in this government's period because the government created conditions for them were growing at the highest in all countries of transition but also in the countries of the European Union and reached a record just before the end of the past term of this government. What is still to be noted is that financial market indicators, primarily on the Crobex index, have been growing all along, dizzy, bidigitally growing annually with several small exceptions now in the pre-election and post-election period, which is normal in all countries. And what's the consequence of all this? The consequence is that Croatia is becoming and has become a country of entrepreneurs. In all countries developed civilizations of Europe and wider small and medium-sized entrepreneurs carry the greatest burden. They participate in gross national income everywhere over 60% and in the number of business entities everywhere over 90%. And that's why this government created opportunities to increase the number of entrepreneurs. She created them in two ways, by reorganizing the state administration, by removing bureaucratic barriers. And secondly, it's equally important to create an optimistic atmosphere because the optimistic atmosphere towards our Irish friends who showed us this in the recent past, the optimistic atmosphere for entrepreneurship is the first factor in its success. The result is that the number of entrepreneurs in Croatia is on the 100 inhabitants of the so-called TA index increased from 3.1 to 6.4. More than doubled the number of entrepreneurs per hundred inhabitants. And on the world scale, the number of entrepreneurs in the population of Croatia has risen to 18th place from the wicked 40th place. I'm sure that coming up towards this program, according to this government that will realize it will continue to be this steeped up. And to conclude on this chapter on the economy, the most important consequence of all this is the lowest rate of unemployment in the history of the young Croatian state. And the goal that the government has set here is to achieve a 7% unemployment rate with these methods that are shown here and in the current term, it is absolutely feasible. In addition to this economic part here, I say the continuation of the current programme is refreshing with our coalition partners and therefore guarantees success, perhaps a few words on the protection of national interests when entering international integration. Joining international integration is one of the biggest events ahead of Croatia in the government's term and after winning the war, Croatia's biggest event in its recent history and near future. Entry into European integration is a step in each respect but only on one condition, that the price paid for it is not too high. And the price is mostly paid if one people who enters those integrations cannot protect their national interests. And that is why this government has been working within 4 years to protect national interests because other member states of the European Community and other communities of the peoples are doing so. And I also see in this programme a whole series of guidelines by which the Government will protect national interests in the forthcoming and remaining negotiations to join the European Union. I'll just remind you of a few big steps in this regard. This is the protection of national interests in the area of agriculture which has been reached by a very high quality agreement. Then it's the protection of national land. The Government's decision not to sell the state land but to lease or to pay the right to build no matter what time-limit but remains owned by the Croatian state. The decision not to sell forests, not to sell strategic water sources. It is a decision to protect the Croatian coast. By not allowing the construction of 70 metres off the coast, this government broke the appetites of many who wanted to build in the Croatian sea. I also remind myself of the Law on the Protection of Islands, which are therefore smaller uninhabited islands which are the foundation of Croatian beauty and which are one of the most important factors in which Croatia differs from all other countries in the world. The government protected them by a provision of first-bought government rights when such private islands were sold and provided for in the budget for appropriate financial resources. I would also point out from this programme that the government is continuing its knowledge-based society strategy, on information. In the past period, Croatia came from the European bottom by information literacy, after using the Internet to the European summit. In some parts, we are even at the very top, and not less important and not least, the specifics in this programme under which this government protects the dignity of Croatian defenders and in which this government protects the interests of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in other countries of the former Yugoslavia and beyond. That is why I believe that even on the agenda of co-existence that Dr. Pupovac spoke of many times by Prime Minister Sanader that this co-existence will also be brought not to a European level, it is already on it but much above that level. If this programme is met, and I believe it will be fulfilled, then we can predict: in the current term, Prime Minister Sanader's government has made Croatia the most desirable country to live in the region. After this term, after the implementation of this programme, I am sure that Croatia will be the most desirable feature in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u186	Thank you. Lately, an individual club debate ended. We're going to an individual debate. The first is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u187	Thank you, Mr. President, forgive me, Vice President. What the Croatian public certainly knows is about forming a new government and the government's programme that the state will be burdened with the new two ministries. When HDZ formed power, after the 2003 elections, it had just fallen by reducing the number of ministries as a guarantee of a less efficient administration. Unfortunately, we saw that the small and reduced number of ministries were both not a guarantee of the government's reduction. However, the state administration has accumulated and the number of civil servants has increased, in general, by officials. So there is no doubt now that, with the increase of these two ministries, the administration will continue, but if it were in the service of the citizens, then it would be, it wouldn't be bad. However, such an expense would be acceptable. Now in what conditions we're discussing today's government programme. What kind of Croatian reality is that? What the public was also immediately informed about will be the government's first moves is that smoking will be banned in Croatia in public places. I think that's one of the following questions precisely in the reality in which Croatian citizens live. And that's the trend of collecting everything and everything. Of course, this is caused by anger, primarily by unions that announce precisely one of the difficult lives of Croatian workers, a general citizen and a protest. Namely, just as trade unions are warning the four-member family now is no longer the minimum for a ticket of 6 thousand and 14 kuna, but it is now up to 7 thousand kuna, especially if they are tenants. And there's plenty of them. Retired statistics are even more devastating. The basketball for 2 pensioners now, or from 3 thousand and 378 kuna today, is already 3 thousand and 500 kuna. How can two pensioners, or a family with two older people, where they have only one pension to survive in the first place? Only with magic. Therefore, while the elections were still being held, we simply may not have noticed that they had collected fruit and vegetables first and not minorly for some small amount but for a 10% amount. But let's move on. It collected bread and milk afterwards. But let's move on. They've collected energy. So that magical, magical figure of 8 kuna, here it is, it's gone up, it's grown. The truth is that neither the Croatian government, with the best will nor any government, can, especially we cannot affect global gatherings. But the government simply has to take measures just to mitigate the effects of these global gatherings. And that's something we've been looking for in this program. But it's not visible. It's something concrete that would just give the citizens hope that this price explosion and then the fall of standards won't really come true as these gatherings are just saying. The average net salary for us is 4000 and 579 kuna. Croatia has 250,000 unemployment, unemployed. And now compared to this purchasing power with the countries of the European Union, we simply have, we have 30% less purchasing power. Forgive me, 70% and 4 is less purchasing power and prices are only 30% lower in Croatia than in the countries of the European Union. So these are the problems from which, or from the government, Croatian citizens expect it to solve them. And such a programme that will answer these questions Croatian citizens expect. So in short, that Croatian citizens live better, that their standards are increased, not that they are being broken. Who can provide that? Of course, a good life can only provide citizens with good government, or good government. The basic characteristics of good governance are that the government is predictable, that the government is calculating and that it is controlling. This is first of all seen through public administration, whether public administration that implements therefore generally laws and lower sublegal acts that assist the administration in the realisation of therefore and the programme that must then be passed through laws, is it so. So here we see in the government program what, in the new program, is being prepared in public administration. First of all, it is said that public administration reform is one of the key factors of further development of the Republic of Croatia and that quality, professional and rapid public administration assumes the acceleration of economic development and guarantee of public interest. It's absolutely true and true. And how do you get what's in the program? It is necessary to complete the depoliticisation process of the public administration. And it is said that it is in the process, and that it is necessary to ensure in practice effective rewarding of quality work and sanctioning of non-work in the public administration and a whole series of things that are actually repeated from year to year, or every term of office. And there's nothing important to object to. But more than how the government and the government act in practice, it is much more important than what is written, therefore works and not words. You are here yesterday's first demonstration of power was that Mrs Blažević was resolved and was not re-appointed. And here we write depoliticization, here we write that we will ensure effective rewarding of quality work and sanctioning of work in public administration and in general in administration and in administrative professional affairs. You're a very discreet man. Then how do you believe that you really mean what's written, even what's written well? And in that good public administration, here's what they say, what they say in the program. That a large number of administrative relations increases the number of potential administrative disputes and the quality of government is best seen through an administrative trial, and that administrative trial, i.e. that the Administrative Court is burdened most precisely, and on which they judge, they judge precisely in cases of lawlessness of the state administration due to unlawful treatment. And that number hasn't been reduced unfortunately. All these years, it hasn't been cut down, and we're saying that here's a need to improve judicial reform. There is no reform of the judiciary without an effective public administration, which means legal conduct. And as long as political accounts are in the administration, as long as the best ones are eliminated from the administration, as long as what is written here is not appreciated, there is no talking about it effectively, and in all the other consequences, or programmes and objectives that are wanted and must be achieved if it is to be a member of the European Union. In the judiciary, it is therefore impossible to change the situation more significantly if the administration is like this, and what kind of justice is this we have received information from the European Commission that is talking about Croatia's 2007 progress, where it says there are no specific rules or procedures or objective criteria for progress in the judiciary. That there remains a large number of backlogs, but what is most important and most important is that it says so here on page 51 of this report, literally here I quote: "Corruption is both politically and institutionally still very widespread and not seeing good and transparent conditions of good governance, the calculation of transparency." It's literally what it stands for. We are just as sorry as we are, it was hidden from the public, warned by the European Union, or the European Union is now clear, and it comes from their saying of the obvious, but it was still in Croatia on December 21st, as Croatia is in the correctional exam on judicial reform and it is being added to the specific criteria that it must meet in general in order to open these negotiations on the judiciary itself. Here are the statements, so when is this...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u190	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic incorrectly claimed that Mrs Blažević's resolution had taken place because of political similarities and because of allegedly political accounting. In fact, it expired its four-year term and, of course, it accidentally wanted to have a political reckoning then I guess that would have been done at the beginning of last term, so four years ago. But as it is indeed the end of the term of office, it is then that there is a right for another person to come to that place. So it's not about any political reckoning or political resemblance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u192	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u193	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, from your opening statement, I would agree with that finding you said, that in Parliament not only the position but also the opposition must be responsible. That's what I talked about here in Parliament on several occasions. I agree with you and the SDP has always been a responsible opposition when it was in opposition. Some other parties have not been that we are responsible speeches and this debate that we are having today on the government's programme. Personally, I think that the government programme should be more concrete, that it must establish both objectives and priorities and measures, but also which will then be operationalised by the resolution ministries, but that it should say what legislative changes are needed. This, however, seems to me to be in some way a set of hints that the government would like to do in the next four years. Since in these 10 minutes it is not possible to talk complexly about the whole program that has been proposed to us here on a hundred pages, I will refer only to the section relating to the country, agriculture and food as mentioned in chapter 10. I miss a few things here, some things we can do, including my colleagues and colleagues in the SDP. We lack what condition it is that we can then see if the measures are sufficient to resolve the situation. I also miss the goals and priorities because anything is not possible in the state in which agriculture and the village is being solved today. I don't even have priority measures here clear enough, I don't see what's primarily in the legislative sense of change. So I'm going to remind you very briefly what the situation is, because I think you should start not from incentives but from agricultural land as a basic resource for the development of agriculture. Today, we have about 450 thousand households in Croatia that count about a million and 500 thousand members and have a total of nearly a million and 200 thousand hectares of land. Of this, about 720 thousand hectares of private-owned agricultural land are, however, precisely that private-owned segment is characterized by this decapitated property on which it cannot be managed rationally today, to ensure income stability. That's what the next statistic says. 700, or 380 thousand households, have less than 5 hectares of land, and everything somewhere around 21 thousand, even less than that, has more than 10 hectares, and we know that rational production at 10 hectares is not actually possible at this point if it is some cultures in agriculture. What is a major problem for Croatia and that is repeated cyclically every few years is the problem of drought, and we only water a few thousand hectares of land. And now, which should be the objectives of agricultural policy I actually couldn't read to the end here, because they're not said. I think every objective of every country's agricultural policy must be to ensure the safety and quality of its population's diet. Unfortunately, we do not have enough production for domestic needs, so we are forced to import and we are increasing the deficit in the external trade of agricultural and food products from year to year. Income stability should be ensured for those agricultural households whose activity is essential, they should provide income support, i.e. payment insurance to those who have an additional activity. The problem of nursing households, a major problem in the Croatian village, should also be addressed by certain social policy measures, not agricultural policies. In this House, two parties have already proposed the so-called social pension in the SDP, the HSS National Pension. I didn't notice the saying that this is what it says. And now I'm going to try to go from every point that's been suggested here. As far as land policy is concerned, I don't see any major changes here. I personally support the establishment of an agricultural land agency, but I think it should have a very different function. In our agricultural programme, we in the SDP, too, have proposed the establishment of a Agricultural Land Management Agency, which should then actually have a function and management, state agricultural land, but also the arrangements of the total agricultural land. Because when we talk about the Agricultural Land Act, we tend to focus on the state, and it is still in the minority relative to the total potential. I haven't noticed here that we treat land as one special national value. This is where colleague Hebrang said we wouldn't sell state agricultural land. The programme does not show this, but it is said to go, that priority concessions will be abolished, concessions will be transferred to the relevant counties, etc. We think we should approach serious investments right on the agricultural land segment that should be brought to culture. Three things are important here. It's one thing to round up properties that can be made by different agrotechnical measures, but basically we think that the agrotechnical measure is a combination. There's nothing about it in the program. Compassion is a complex measure. It's not just rounding up agricultural land, it's editing total space, it's also fixing land books. The only talk here is about setting up land books, which is a big and responsible job to do in a short time. What about irrigation? We don't have anything to say about irrigation here. In the past term of the government president, the then Prime Minister said irrigation has road construction status in Croatia. In four years we've done a little bit, not to say we haven't done anything, in this program we don't say anything. Another important segment is incentives. If this is how we're going to treat incentives, it means turning back from what we had a year ago or in the last year. In other words, we must, it is high time, we are already late to separate social measures in the country from economic measures that should go through incentives. I agree that there is a need to change the policy of incentives, but Croatia is so different in climate, by geographical differences that it is necessary to finally introduce regionalisation into agriculture. Croatia could have four to five agricultural regions where desirable production or recommended production would be determined and incentives adequately established. Then the incentives could be on large surfaces, but also on this one throat if it's mountainous and mountainous areas. The segment that matters in agriculture is education and someone here pointed out that for the first time something was said. However, what is said about education? It is said this way, the entire life-long learning of manufacturers will begin to apply from 2008. And what do I think we should do? High school programmes should be changed in agricultural orientation schools. In what way? So people are educated so they can run their own family household. So they get basic knowledge not only from agriculture, from veterinary, from the economy and perhaps from other knowledge. It will help to transfer new technologies and new knowledge to them. Nothing has been said what our higher education institutions are? What are institutes? What's the role of college, etc? I think it is, at least it's written extensively about the agriculture programme, that these are more hints than concrete programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u194	Thank you very much. There's one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Kovacevic! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec said the deficit in agriculture is constantly increasing. We can say that we are not satisfied with the level of exports, yes and imports, but what is the fact between 2003 and 2007 exports were doubled and we also had coverage of imports by agricultural and food industries 43% in 2003, while today this coverage of imports is over 60%. And it is also particularly increasing the exports of highly finished food products to the most demanding markets of the European Union and from the old Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u196	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Milanka Opačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u197	By reading Mr. President, by reading this programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the next four-year term, I have to admit, I don't know what this was all about and negotiated for a full 30 days. The more the good part of this program is good wishes but without concrete measures. On the other hand, some chapters are fully copied from existing documents. So for them, the technique applied to what we call copy traps. They took the existing documents, they copied them. My question is just why? Was there no new ideas, or does that mean that from these documents we'll only spend one piece of it and that the other part will remain a dead letter on paper? It's a particular chapter on family matters. In fact, here are 17 or 18 measures, actually 14, of 14 measures, 10 are measures literally prescribed by the National Population Policy. So 10 measures were copied literally from a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which is the obligation of each government, and that another government would be obliged to implement the National Population Policy programme. And so we have again, as had the National Population Policy, which was copying parts of existing laws that the government did not implement, now we have in this program copying parts of the National Population Policy as something new. No, I don't. It's nothing new. It is therefore a copying of a document that has become a document of the Croatian Parliament. The question arises, therefore, if this is in the Government's only 10 measures, is the rest of the National Population Policy something that will not be implemented? On the other hand, some deadlines have already moved. When compared to the deadlines recorded in the National Population Policy here, the deadlines are shifted in advance. So the deadlines are already moving in relation to the documents this House voted on. Does that mean, too, is that also a message that all deadlines in the National Population Policy are moving because things are unreal? In fact, the creation of a housing strategy at national, local and regional level especially for young people who are just coming to the labour market and are on the way to creating their own family, in the National Population Policy, the deadline was the end of 2008. The government's programme now lists end-2009 as a deadline. So, one of the most important things for population policy is exactly apartment and workplace, because no young family or better said will decide to create a family without what is basic, it is a roof over the head and of course some kind of basic profit. For example, we also had a rule on the terms and conditions of use of the right to assist the child’s child’s equipment. The same deadline was in 2007. It didn't work out, it didn't work out, and now it's due in 2008. So again, there was evidence that apparently some of the deadlines were written as a good wish, but there was not enough strength to do so. Next. The status of equalising the status of mothers and pregnant women employed in the labour contract and volunteering contract was equally time-limited in the National Population Policy in 2007. It's not done, it's not done. The government's programme now says it's due by the end of 2008. This means that we can also expect that the deadline will be extended on 2009, 2010. So when it's in somebody's interest to really spend that part. Four years ago, we warned here that it was very bad to connect two major resistors, a health resort and a social care resort. I'm sorry you didn't separate those two resistors this time. Over the past four years, it has turned out to be bad. It's bad because these two systems are very large and burdensome with problems and it's not possible to solve them in such a way that they are joined into one ministry, because only problems within the health system are large enough to require the full engagement of one minister and one ministry. In the past four years, it has actually been seen that the system has, in principle, been somewhat reversed by the social care system. So there was nothing going on in this system, they were changing the secretary of state because in principle for people who work in that system, especially for citizens who expect support from the welfare system, nothing in principle happened. The pressure on the welfare system is increasing. Unfortunately, in that part, those who work are not helped to be easier and much more accessible to our citizens. On the other hand, we said that this bad separation of one and the split of one single system between the two ministries, the family ministry and the Ministry of Social Welfare has proved to be the same for four years now. Mrs. Kosor took the part that's easier, where there aren't so many problems, you can give some rights as much money as you have money but in fact all the problems remain in the Ministry of Social Care. And then we warned that family problems would be difficult to solve in two separate ministries because of the fact that family problems are the most often decided by social care centres. But, well, you've decided to keep working like that. And I must admit that you, Mr. Milinovic, will have a very difficult job in your vault. That it was like I said, so the welfare system was completely something that wasn't a matter of interest. I even asked the former minister on several occasions if he even knew that he had social care because he mainly focused on health care, which was logical because he was a doctor by profession. But in any case, look at just one example of how the welfare system doesn't work. In fact, UNICEF spent more than three years ago one of the actions that the citizens of this country paid me seems to me to be more than 2 million kunas for a children's fostering programme. In fact, in this programme there are again children who are located in institutions who have stayed out of the whole story. The state is so worried about it, it's just giving out financial resources, and nothing more than that. So then an action was launched to get children as far away from their homes as possible, so to go to foster homes. However, in addition to collecting money, certain programmes needed to be made, in a way, towards the citizens in order to obtain them for foster care as much as possible. Unfortunately, nothing was done, and we got here in that foster care bill that actually documented that no child had gone into a slightly larger number of foster homes because of the fact that nothing had been done in the social care system itself, therefore, as a step further in the work. And finally, since this government has also written in this programme that population policy and the rise of birth is something that is a priority and that is very important I agree absolutely with it but I also hope that you as a minister will do something that is not written in this programme and I think it is necessary and it is necessary in this country to adopt a new Law on Medical Aided Insemination. I think we're working under a law that definitely doesn't match medical achievements today. I think that part should make order and first of all bring that part into line with European guidelines. We will have to do this sooner or later, but it would be much better to do it for ourselves, because of our citizens, because of a number of children that we can get in this way without doing it as something that will be a commitment because we are entering the European Union tomorrow. So here you are, and this way, I'm asking the Law on Medical Insemination to come to the assembly bench this time. He entered the parliamentary procedure here, however, was removed before he saw the light of day and debate in this home. And here, I expect that in this term the HDZ Government and the coalition partners will show their sensitivity to that population that has... to a number of children. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u198	Thank you. He asked for a word to address the mandater, Mr. Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u199	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Several comments on the presentation of representatives on the subject of the Government programme. First of all, I would also like to update when I mentioned my coalition partners in the opening presentation that I accidentally left out the Croatian party of pensioners who have a single representative, but every representative and everyone's programme is important, so I would like to say that in cooperation with the Croatian Party of Retired and in the past term we will continue to have good successes in this, that we have improved the material position of Croatian pensioners and that we will continue to do so. From the ranks of the opposition there were words and I will begin with this last topic, which is family, population policy and what Ms. Opačić said. I am pleased that you are in principle in favour of such a policy as you spoke of and which we are talking about in the program but I will also, even if it is in critical tone. But I'll also remind you that what we achieved in the last term when compared to what you're talking about and what you're like the government that preceded us did to us that it was heaven and earth. Your former government abolished three-year birth licenses for twin mothers and three and more children and ordered that within a month, and that is 60 thousand mothers in Croatia have to get to work immediately, within 30 days. So that was the measure, you cut birth benefits. As soon as we arrived, we increased the birth benefits, abolished this poor provision that the 60 thousand mothers must step down immediately, immediately within 30 days, to get to work. So we've returned that possibility of three years of maternity leave, and we think it's a good thing. We hope that you support this measure as we hope you support and increase the maternity benefits that we have introduced along with coalition partners in the past government. We hope that you support and that we have heard and welcome, delegating birth benefits for the first time in Croatian history. I hope you're also supporting an extra for the children we've made. I hope you're also in favour of the introduction of an intrinsic supplement for the third and fourth children that have never been before. And these are the successes of this government so far, and it will be and we will continue with such a most intelligent policy still. Now, a few words have been quoted by the majority of MPs in the opposition by the European Commission's report and by the fact that it is the chapter of the judiciary but in general the European Commission's report. Now let's say things are right. The European Commission's report, ladies and gentlemen, of the distinguished Croatian MPs, which was an annual report that was adopted about a month or less than a month before the elections, praised Croatia in all chapters. In all chapters there is visible progress, somewhere a little more, somewhere a little less which does not say and does not mean that there are no challenges and that there are no areas where we still have to work. But read the European Commission's report, it's on the Internet, you can see it, and you'll see what it says. This is when you mentioned the chapter of the judiciary. We got, yeah, that's right. We've got a few more criteria to meet, and we're gonna have to meet them. And no one said by the government or by the government that there were no problems in the judiciary. That remains our biggest challenge. But together, of course, first of all, the responsibility of the Government is, we do not want to share with you the responsibility but we are looking for support in the reform of the judiciary because it is one of the assumptions for the normal and the situation in Croatia that we want and not just for Croatia's entry into the European Union. According to this report, the commission was fine. Read chapters to chapters always qualify as they are and what is done in that chapter. And he says progress has been made. If they say progress has been made, it's not bad, it's good. Is sufficient progress achieved that is a second question. He's not in many, and he's here with you. No, no, no, that's another question. The important thing is that progress has been made. And there it is, and there it is, and it is in all chapters recorded by the European Commission. And we will not argue over the European Commission's report. It's available to all citizens, let them look at it, let them evaluate it. But we say that there are challenges that are not yet, which are ahead of us and which are of course not ultimately overcome. And that's where you're right. I would also like to say the same thing when you talk about equality, equality, or not specifically about it, but I will say that when it comes to gender equality and the situation that has been so far and we will continue to work on, and that is, it is that we must all continue to promote gender equality together, ensure a better position for women in, on the labour market. The programme of support for women entrepreneurs will also encourage a special employment programme for women victims of domestic violence. Otherwise, the fight against domestic violence remains one of the biggest challenges but for the whole society not only for the government, and I will once again say that violence against women in the family is nothing but violence in the family not only against women but also against children or partners is no cavalier delicacy but is a crime. That's what we believe. That's what our program is and we're looking for that support. But we are particularly looking for the support of the Parliament in the measures we will bring for the employment of women because 60% of the unemployed are women on the labour market. And that's what we have to change. I'd also like to say a few words about credibility, about tolerance. That's what it was, I didn't want to react to it right now, about that, but I have to say, at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the credibility of politics, the question of the government's credibility is being evaluated by voters. You all have the right to do that. So do we. Anyone can talk about another political party, the other political option, but the only standard and only one, the only arbiter, the arbiter of the maximus that Latina would say are voters. And voters have confirmed by their choice that this government has done well. Once again, we will be given the mandate and we will continue this mandate with coalition partners who have added value to our work so far and who we welcome to continue on to the benefit of Croatian citizens, for the benefit of all in Croatia. We hope with your support and with criticism where she is, where she is needed, where she needs it, and be sure that we will make all the critical remarks that you have made in yours today, in your statements that we will seriously consider them. That we will try to install them into our program and our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u200	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First it's Mrs... Milanka Opačić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u201	So I'm correcting an incorrect quote. Namely, Mr. Sanader says, "Delimation of maternity benefits has been introduced for the first time in history." It's not Mr. Sanader. By 1996, birth benefits were decommissioned. In 1996, the government, then the HDZ, introduced a limit. So you just fixed something your government did 10 years ago. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u202	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Gordana Sobol's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u203	Two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Prime Minister, I dare say that it is incorrect to say that in the field of gender equality you will do certain things because in the document that you have sent together with coalition partners in this House you have not in any way shown yourself about the position of women in Croatian society and what is intended to be done in that part. Second, it is one thing to be rich in words and another to do something about it. Another incorrect quote, sir, was 61.6% of the unemployed women's share of the total unemployment rate at the end of December. By 4 percentage points, it increased during your previous term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u204	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will propose an extension on the basis of Article 204(2). I shall propose to supplement the agenda pursuant to Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure: Elections and appointments. [[The intruders don't understand.]] To clarify here, clubs have proposed and sent for a consensus on selecting the Committee on Foreign Policy in order to work on the staff and other support needed by the Foreign Ministry in terms of elections and ambassadors and similar debates. Well, let's not wait a month for that. So please accept... the agenda of the following point: Selection and appointments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any objections to that point? If there's no one to put this point in the agenda? Thank you very much. Now we will interrupt the session by wishing you a pleasant holiday and pleasantly or in the sweets of meals and drinks. And we'll continue at 15:30. Thank you very much. The selection and appointment committee will hold a session in room 202 immediately. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Please members of the selection and appointment committee at 202nd session immediately. The MPs continue the session with the same agenda. The first is Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u206	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would ask the candidates to take their seats, it is not their turn that the legislative authority is waiting for the executive power as long as they are candidates, which will only be if they really become executive power. I welcome candidates and candidates, colleagues and colleagues. For me, if it's clear to me, then it's clear to me that a prime minister who's not there now, too, was not easy for him, that it was certainly not easy for him to put together this proposal that he was supposed to be an acrobat on a wire to equilibrate in order to satisfy the programming appetites of his future partners, and these appetites would be the best way to describe themselves in one of the items that you can find in every furniture salon, it's called a chair. So when he was able to somehow satisfy these great programme appetites of partners, when the great art of acrobatic and I have to admit it was really a skilled man, when he was able to put this proposal together, something else surprised me. In fact, when it comes to the part of the staff he could have influenced more than he could have affected the part belonging to coalition partners. Actually, I'd like to mention, here's tourism, I'm a fellow Mr. Byse, it's not about him, it's about the problem of tourism. You see, when tourism is mentioned, I don't know why, but in Dalmatia, it comes to the sea first. And it seems to me that the average citizen of Croatia would ask that the first as a psychological test responds to the association of tourism to mention the sea, islands, boat, Adriatic etc. Here it turns out that we're getting a minister, I say it's an honor to propose, I don't know a gentleman, and I don't know what his abilities are, from that part of Croatia where tourism isn't as developed as in these other parts. Since the mandater has shown that there are good hands to be said in our country in Split, I think that according to this people's "no escape quotes" that we could have introduced one new in general in political life and let's say we introduced two tourism ministries. One for this coastal part, and one for this inside part. There have already been some discussions and debates about how it will help develop tourism in the interior so that this part will not remain disabled I suggest here to try and do so. Otherwise, it seems not good to think sometimes that the method that came to the proposal is something like a game of luck, like Lot, tombule, buttholes have one game in Split, there say the Scotlands Batules turn into something then a drawer of this act so who's best to be it. I don't think that's a good method like not a good method for that same common mouse white luck sharing. I can't understand any human resources either, I have to mention them here for myself and for the public. I was particularly surprised by why the prime minister went to do these kind of roschas, some kind of alterations. For example, Mr Roncevic moved to the Ministry of Interior, Mr Vukelic, from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Defence. Let's just say that since Mr. Vukelic is joining me in the Brodosplit affair, I don't want to get involved in the judiciary so that I don't get attacked by a dozen MPs right away, let the judiciary do so, and I don't propose Mr. Minister for Justice. But let's say it's also odd that he's proposed to be Minister of Defense, not to say the Minister of the Interior. Because you see, it was precisely the Ministry of the Interior that failed when the State Attorney's office had taken action and expressed doubts that it might be a major serious crime, money laundering, evasion and other miracles, the robbery of taxpayers, and since Mr. Vukelić was still the chairman of the Watch Committee of "Brodospleta", and since the police administration in Split has not yet completed its investigation, I think it might be useful that Mr. Vukelić, as future police minister, was eventually the one who would have ended the investigation, because we are in a truly strange situation, in a situation where he would end up in the course of justice how he ended up, and the police investigation won't end. I think if Mr. Vukelic were to be or when he was a defence minister, he would defend us the way he defended us from corruption in "Brodosplit," my mother would. I don't know, that's my opinion. He claims to have been a great economy minister, and then I would have left him to finish his job, not to change his medals. I think it's strange to see, it's strange that in Croatia lived some kind of new Renaissance age, a lot of Leonard da Vinci, they know everything. Well, it's strange to me that now you can be Minister of Economy, now defense, tomorrow's singing, which I know gymnastics has no idea. Either you're a genius, you're an unquestioning genius, and yet on the other hand every genius will say I don't know everything or you don't know anything. Dr. Crescent. Zubovic, pull out his teeth, not yell at the MPs as they speak. I'd like to declare Mr. Vukelic a lifetime honorary worker of the Split bootlegger. Let's do it. ... And we'll talk to my colleague Zubovic later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, to me. I'm just actually saying it like this, you hear a lot among people, so people wonder, you talk about corruption in Croatia, here they talk in the European Union about corruption, and we kind of don't hear what everyone knows, what everyone hears. And I'm so glad Mr. Hebrang's coming in, because he was talking about a bunch and a crowd this morning. There are some differences, there are differences and it's good to know, I would even recommend two books. He's one of the famous Spanish philosophers named Jose Ortega y Gasset, he wrote the book "The Rebellion of Mass", and the other is American sociologist David Riesman, he wrote "The Lonely Bunch". When you read it, you can learn anything smart. Our mandater who doesn't has ended up with one Latin sensation, so I would just end up like this in view of what this proposal looks like, everything he's going to cause, so I think some strange solutions, I would also repeat a Latin that says act non verba, so works, not words. In words we are strong and against corruption, in words we are strong against everything, and in practice we work so that we enter this new period with big and old doubts. I think that's bad. You've got most of it, you'll vote it. David Copperfield would be worse off than our prime minister. It's not easy to charm bari kukumari in this way to create government. We'll get what we get, and you'll get an answer very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u207	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u208	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidates for members of the government. I've been very interested in studying the government program and the coalition agreement. It's actually the same document. And after studying all that together, I have to say that it's not exactly true that it's just a kidnapping for a chair. There's a chair that obviously doesn't have a lot of kidnapping. It is a chair of the minister or minister of justice, and the reasons are clear why there is no kidnapping for that chair. It's a difficult portfolio and I want a lot of success at the beginning of the future minister, and I think she has a really hard job to do. Why? The problems with justice and corruption have been more or less familiar to us all, and for the past four years, I think anyone objective can say that it wasn't done for these or those reasons too. The figures show it quite convincingly regardless of what is true that the number of pending items is certain, I won't tell the tricks, but some of the actions decreased below that dramatic number that once was. Moreover, I don't even think that the number of pending proceedings is the criterion by which we absolutely have to evaluate the judiciary for reasons, because if you have a million pending cases, and there are so many opportunities and inflows, that means that the current inflow is solved, which is why it wouldn't be a problem if the files don't usually exist older and the judges have broken down some mechanism to keep the norm and some files that are problematicly delayed from the side, but that's the reality that unfortunately judges are often forced to do. What made me feel bad and sad is what happened last night, yesterday. In fact, on the news, we heard that a letter from the European Union came in telling us that when we get the diplomatic dictionary and all this together, we didn't do much at the implementation of the anti-corruption programme and that we should start to implement it, and they almost told us that justice reform should be redesigned. Following the judiciary, I saw that there were a lot of initiatives, but there were inconsistencies in the past term. There were many CARDS projects and this and that, however, there was not a single lead and my first proposal to the government was that all these initiatives and support that our friends from abroad wanted to give us in a way co-ordinated and that we didn't have one initiative that draws to the left, another to the right on the same issue. Let's just say that we had very different points of view about the narrowing of the judicial network. The best example is misdemeanor courts where there were ideas that they should be abolished at all, so that they would be attached to municipal courts, so that management would be given cases etc. So there was no consistent policy, and I think there should be some way that both domestic and international initiatives should co-ordinate into one meaningful policy. This thesis of the European Union that this reform really needs to be redesigned almost again, I think it is quite worrying. And I'm worried about the fact that the government got that letter somewhere in mid-December and that until the press put it on the Internet, at least I didn't know. Which is why it wasn't in public I don't know, but if there's a reason that in some way this problem from our consciousness wants to suppress it then it's not good. So I hope it won't be the case. When we look at the reason why there's no kidnapping for a minister or minister of justice's chair, I think it's clear. There is a huge dissatisfaction of people with the situation in the judiciary. There is a perception that is likely and unfair to the judiciary in terms of the great corruption of the judiciary, and that is probably where perception is stricter than what we would get by some exact research. I still claim today, as I say otherwise, that there are many very good judges in Croatia. What I also resent to these judges is that they are not critical of their colleagues and that through those instruments of independence they have, primarily the State Judiciary Council, they do not sanction those who dirty the face of the judiciary on the one hand, and on the other hand, this overwhelming institution of justice that should give citizens justice and solve their problems makes them ineffective and an institution in which citizens do not trust. The problem of the judiciary is closely tied to corruption, and they are as listed by the judiciary as they are, because when you see this program, you would think by the thickness of the rest of the chapters that this is our least problem. I think it's just the other way around, and it's too bad it's all in some sketches. I would even say that the projects that are on the Justice Department's website now from last term that are more detailed and better than this program. So I hope that changes. But this whole problem and the package that we call the judiciary and what we do is a problem is closely linked and linked to corruption. Corruption and justice problems are our systemic disease and are not solved by intervention in terms of bringing together five courts or doing this or that. The problem is very complex. It covers organisational aspects, includes process, legislation, moral standards, including ethics, professional ethics. And it really takes a very coordinated effort to solve these problems. Speaking of support, the prime minister's candidate, or prime minister, has repeatedly called for co-operation to address the problem. I'll remind you that it seems to me that, hopefully, you'll agree, in the past term, if there was a resistor who enjoyed the support and the opposition and the authorities in terms of giving, let's make, if necessary, even here, now I am, that Madam Minister took part in... Some regulations, wanting to get this whole problem out of the agenda somewhere, were the support of the justice system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that happy fact that every government can wish you had the support of the opposition, even for harder and more unpleasant steps, you haven't taken advantage of it, that's too bad. And that in the next term, you will likely again enjoy the support of a similar nature. And I kind of appeal to you to take advantage of her. However, when we speak to the problem of the judiciary, it is the building, it is the computers, it is the information, it's all important and the judiciary can't do it without it. The problems are here some time and dramatic. Some judges have neither the laws under which they judge, unfortunately they say, and complain or renovate the courts that are planning to close. So there are serious infrastructure problems. But there are people in the judiciary. The biggest investment I need seems to me right in the judge, in building their not only independence, it's the first link. But there's another one, like the same coin, that's a responsibility. And I think that this Parliament together with the judiciary, along with the judges, must find those mechanisms that we absolutely do not have today, which, with responsibility and expertise, will have this third element, it is an element of responsibility to work, according to the profession and towards Croatian citizens, for which ultimately, our entire country exists. A parallel problem with corruption where the impression and perception that Croatian society is harvested from the lowest to the highest level of corrupt elements is management. I'm sorry that in this crumb and all this over-the-counter stuff they say, here's what we're saying, the chair hasn't found a place for the Department of Administration, because I think the state administration and from the point of view is a serious problem in this society. And I also plead to consider raising the quality of legislative activity. Nomotechnically and conceptually, our laws are indeed at a bad level, even those who serve the judiciary are neither good nor nomotechnically nor conceptually. For example, when it comes to fighting corruption, I will be specific. We have an acronary penal code that is absolutely time to change it. The penal law that I may have unfairly peed on some of his writers saying that, by writing such a law, writers actually kept lotteryes to those who grabbed what they grabbed in the conversion and privatisation. And finally, before the end, reforming the judiciary is not its own purpose. The aim is for the judiciary to serve Croatian society and to establish a single value that is often burdened with money, work, business, technicals. That's justice. It's morality and justice. And that is why I appeal not to forget the SDP club initiative that went after constitutional changes to allow the punishment of war profiteers and those who have seized what does not belong to them in conversion and privatisation. In one word, here's the time already at the end, of course you could go on long and wide about the details of the problem that the future minister is waiting for. I can't talk about the details, but I think it's one of the most ungrateful chairs. Madam Minister, I don't envy you, but in any case, I think you have a responsible and difficult job ahead of you. And here we are, hopefully, with all of us, that you will meet this difficult task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u209	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u210	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected candidates and candidates for the Government of the Republic of Croatia! I fully agree with the mandate that there is, of course, the highest responsibility of government for what will be in the Republic of Croatia in the next four years, but I also accept this challenge that he has set here today that there is also the responsibility of the opposition for what will happen in the next four years. In order for that responsibility to be so divided, then one is like, one of the preconditions that there is mutual respect and, in particular, that there is respect by the authorities for what it proposes, suggests, discusses or brings opposition. And I hope that in this term what was in the last term will not happen, that no opposition bill has been adopted, that no almost amendment except for those who have nootechnically improved text has been accepted, because it is almost impossible in four years that opposition and opposition MPs have not had enough quality or any quality proposal to accept any of it. We will see, or already today, in the draft of this programme of the Government that part of those laws proposed by colleagues from the then opposition of the HSS, from HSLS, will come to us very quickly on the benches now as almost a genius solution in this mandate. So let's not be so narrow and accept only what comes from the government and the government and completely ignore and reject what comes from the opposition. Now let's move on to the government program. It might be good, but we don't have a prime minister to explain to us what the government program is. We've got here one extensive material. The material is called "The Government of the Republic of Croatia Programme" for the term of office from 2008 to 2011. There are 104 pages, and 104 pages are listed as some kind of agreements. What is crucial here to know, are these agreements an integral part of this, this government programme or not? If so, it should have been written. If they did, then it was good to make a copy of the paste as was done and with a coalition agreement with HSS, HSLS, because it wasn't copied, but it was really made a copy of the paste because, apart from those few pages that were thrown out, even the tipfelers were photocopied in this government programme and with the tipfellers that are in the coalition agreement. So that's one thing. And secondly, it is illogical that, for example, in the government programme, it says that some representative supports the government without writing it in the original government programme. So it would be good if we really knew where the government's program is and where it's not. Of course, what I was particularly interested in was the issue of decentralisation. Since, especially after the elections, I have talked a lot about decentralisation, I have to admit a lot more, i.e. I expected that the coalition partners would just succeed in putting crucial pressure on HDZ to truly install decentralisation into the government's programme and that it was being implemented rather than just announcing itself and talking about it as it has been spoken of in the past four years. And I believed that by the end of this term, 20% of the fiscal revenue from our Parliament or government would really belong to the units of local self-government, but then when I read the government programme, I saw that there was one big trick. Therefore, it is not said here that the fiscal revenues of local self-government units will be increased, but that the revenues from business will be increased. These are two different things and this suggests that the government is not ready and has no willingness to redistribute tax revenues within the Republic of Croatia but is likely to continue to retain everything there is and that in some other way it will allow the defacto that local self-government increases its income from business. We will obviously have decentralisation as we had in 2007 when 800 million kuna income tax was decentralised but therefore 2 billion kuna taxes were taken on profits from local self-government units. And that will show up very quickly when the final budget calculation for 2007. In order for decentralisation to be done in the Republic of Croatia, we must lay some groundwork. We must primarily standardise the quality of public service that citizens are entitled to. We must tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what every child will get at school, what every patient will get in the home of health, a pensioner in the retirement home, which is why we will provide from public services. When we standardise that, then we must determine what is the average price and the standardised public service that we will provide to the citizens. And then we have to tell you where the funding from that public service will come from. Only then will we be in a position to remove these huge misunderstandings in regional development. For example, that the hospital in Koprivnica and Čakovec has the lowest capital and that the hospital in Sibenik has the highest capital, i.e. the highest doctor and staff per bed. Or having such a large disproportionate quality of space for primary and secondary education in Croatia. Only then will we be able to say what the minimum standards are that we have to finance and only then can we say ok. Local self-government units have founding rights, i.e. they have to take care of primary schooling, secondary schooling, health care, primary health care, social care, and we give you so much money. Most units of local self-government should then be able to do so alone and for those who could not do so then should form or remain this Alignment Fund, and funds from the state budget should be transferred from that Alignment Fund. Unfortunately, we are in a situation today that this is not the case but almost all cities and municipalities or counties depend on the Alignment Fund where they must receive grant for decentralised funds. And it's not exactly what counterpart Chehok said in his debate, so it's going to increase decentralised funds in a way that's going to be a passing account. No, I don't. The intention remains to raise most of the funds into the central budget and then to finance projects, of course, by discretionary decision again, of someone who will decide and only by doing so to increase the original incomes of local self-government units. It's just what the SDP can't agree to. The SDP argues that by the end of the government's mandate, 20% of the fiscal revenues collected in the Republic of Croatia are collected by the original unit of local self-government and not by the end of the government's mandate, and then you have to break the doors of the ministers or someone else and beg for it. Furthermore, the SDP advocates dislocation of certain administrations because, for example, we do not see any reason for the Regional Development Administration or the Rural Development Administration or the Rural Development Agency, or the Agricultural Land Agency, to be in Zagreb. We don't really see any reason for that. It can be where we have administrative capacity today and where this rural or regional development is indeed taking place. What we are particularly concerned about in this government programme is that it is only talking about the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and it is said to enter into force 1.1.2009. May 17th 2009 is local elections. What about the Law on Local Self-Government, what about the Law on Public Roads? We have been waiting for two and a half years to pass a Law on Public Roads that will allow large cities to consume the law they have been given to care for their public roads and to redistribute public roads management and then income on those public roads. For example, with the Law on the Communist Economy, it was said in the former government's programme that it would be passed in 2004. It's one of the fundamental laws that needs to be passed for the municipal economy. And finally, I must say that the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry has been completely unfairly deployed in two parts and perhaps a sign of this sitting today of future ministers in benches where it is seen that Cobankovic is on one side of the government and Pankretic is on the other side of the government. And in particular, we do not know what kind of relationship forestry and regional development has, or where regional development ends and rural development begins. So it was obviously broken overnight over the knee instead of staying on the idea of establishing the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, not leaving local self-government out there again somewhere in the central state government body.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u211	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u212	Your Honor, Mr. President, it is not the correct conclusion that Mr. Mrsic's intention is to merge everything into the state budget and then discreetly ethically decide who he will return to. I don't know how Mr. Mršić knows what our intentions were when we wrote the agreement. I would never dare talk about someone's intentions, not yours or others. The intention is, and this is in the agreement that 20% will now return 9% over the account, you know well that they will return 20% to local self-government units and that is indeed fiscal decentralisation. And there's no other decentralisation. And when you talk about original incomes, then you should know that the possibility that units of local self-government remain part of the fissus is not possible if we want a balanced development of Croatia. How are you going to return part of the VAT if, for example, it gets the most harvested at the border or in Zagreb? And now that you determine this linearly that 2% of VAT remains units of local self-government, you will again make Zagreb the richest. So consider what you are talking about [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u213	It's Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u214	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, proposed members of the government. Today at the debate on the formation of a new government allow me to say a few words about the possibilities of this government in solving a specific social problem, which is corruption. I won't be wrong to say that the basic characteristic of the previous government was a tendency to this very corruption. Because corruption is exactly the big problem of this society, and the government instead of suppressing it, it encouraged it. That's so, I'm not exaggerating the best of demands... New mandate or old habits [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Not at your place, gentlemen. [[The intruders don't understand.]] That this is so, that I am not excessively expressing the requirements of Brussels. The launch of judicial negotiations requires the implementation of emergency measures in the same judiciary, including the final start of the fight against corruption. No matter how much the government tries to reciprocate. I guess the European bureaucrats also made it clear that all of those operations, "Maestro", "Gruntovec", were already called "the usual dusting" obviously the same Brussels but also Croatian citizens. This government, which will be voted by the majority in the Croatian Parliament today, is, by all means, the continuation of the previous one. Almost the same ministers are sitting in it, and more importantly the exact same prime minister, which means that, among other things, the continuity of corruption affairs will continue. Unfortunately. And all of these people's affairs would be hard to count. Let's remember Brodosplit... , getting military trucks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many will put first the racketeering that involved a driver who fell solely because he was a small fish. The bigger one can't do that. Everyone could notice that they always get hurt if not drivers then doctors, small lawyers, sometimes some vice president, but never their superior. And that is because in Croatia it is not ordinary, petty corruption is at work in the highest spheres. I'm not talking about individuals, I'm going to talk about the concept that's being implemented. And the concept is the new robbery of Croatia and the wealth of the chosen. What was a privatization in the 1990s is now in addition to the same privatisation that continues under the old tried recipe at least 2 major interventions in Croatia's social wealth. The first procedure is in the most valuable that Croatia still owns and that is its space. While the second project implemented by this government is mass manipulation of tenders in the construction of infrastructure facilities, a significant part of the budget money flows into selected companies behind which custody accounts are hidden by many dignitaries. It's nice to be rich but it's not nice to use your function to get rich by getting from ordinary citizens. Take, for example, the sale of the Croatian coast. Untouched bays are transformed into apartment settlements, and instead of olive groves, villas are built. With spatial plans, agricultural land turns overnight into construction land. Of course only for some, those who are close to the authorities. How many units of local self-government were forced past their will to draw tourist zones to get from the ministry consent to plan. I know some. And instead of doing something, the government's sole interest is to favour the capital from which many are suspiciously acquired. Is this why the ruling party also wants the seat of the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, which previously belonged to the opposition. Because they know where the money is and where the weak points are possible. Also, huge money is turning today in infrastructure projects. The city authorities were falling somewhere because of the hall, but that was the exception. Others didn't even get a hair off their heads. The roads were built unqualityly and expensively. When I say unskilled, it means the viaducts were collapsing. Two pieces and a tunnel. Piece 1. At least you know. At the same time, the price of a kilometer of highway has increased from 4 to more than 6 and a half million euros. No less than 60%. We already had a known case of the fast road Galženica-Zadar 2. Unfortunately, the state's attorney's office has not yet been shown on criminal charges. Then the Ploče-Ploče road at a price of 500 million kuna for 10km of road, with all the companies participating in the competition as competitors entering the business. As was the case in the ongoing competitions to build a full profile of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. On that road, land work collected about 300 million kunas, and more than the original plan was used to purchase equipment, with a company with a more expensive offer that ended with lawsuits. The last pearl in the low pearl is 800 meters of highway on Macele. Although there was an offer of 74 million kuna, an offer of 136 million kuna was selected. I guess that's the most expensive road ever built in these areas. Unfortunately, these are not isolated examples. This is a systematic withdrawal of money from the pockets of Croatian tax collectors. On these several roads alone, at least one billion kuna was taken. As many kindergartens could be built for that money, the question can be asked. Because the way it works is famous. The projects adapt to the demands of investors, performers. Competitions are made for furniture, which achieves far higher prices than real and control of all appointments. The corruption round is attended by ministries, state-owned companies, several large construction consortiums, and is particularly interesting in the role of the IGH, which was also discussed by the president of the state whose owners are also government officials. Everything is set up, all paid by Croatian citizens, and they are rich and they say everything is by law and they say they are the guarantees for the protection of Croatian interests. So that I don't just talk about what happened we're going to the next, future infrastructure projects or new profits for the selected. Modernization of Croatian railways. The eye on her was largely cast. Then building a low-level rail that experts say is impossible as designed, but someone took the money for the project as well as for the Pelje Bridge. I hope it will be built, and we will see how much billions of prices will rise because I am the leader of the IGH says the price could be higher, because the economically invaluable and environmentally devastating Danube-Sava channel, of which the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska will benefit the most. Two years ago, the state land on the route of that channel was sold to private persons so that the same land would be bought at 18 times the price, I own the papers. Or I don't know if it's known to the future Minister of Agriculture that the price of the irrigation project, which was promised the truth four years ago, of course, was nothing, with about 360 million dollars per 60,000 hectares per project from 2003, has increased to about 600 million dollars according to the current government project. Logic seems to be, if a mile of highway costs 60%, then the hectare wouldn't be as expensive. And why is that? It's simple because the government this one voted yesterday and this one today just wants to be that way. Because its fuel is corruption. So the question raised by a significant number of citizens whether this government is going to end corruption can be answered incorrectly. It didn't work out anywhere, so it won't work here either. I hope so, though. As you have said to the Prime Minister here, that you will speak of this, and everything is absolutely true and in good faith, even if you think about it and imagine it seriously, because everyone in our heart is a strong and stable Croatian state, and because of that which is an ulcer, which is unfair and unfair, we must remove it from it. We must do this for those who died for her, for our own sakes and for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u215	Mr. Pancic, you're reluctant by your conduct you're deviating from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. Why? Because you conducted the investigation and made the indictment and ruled. You even know what will happen in the future in terms of railways, bridges, prices, etc. You have insulted the government here by finding that the government is prone to corruption, that the government encourages corruption. You seem to know everything, you've conducted investigations, you've carried out the charges, and now you're making judgments. It is a deviation from behaviour in the Croatian Parliament. ... You step away from the usual behaviour in the Croatian Parliament and insult the government in several ways, you know what she has done and what she will do in advance. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're a prophet. You are a prophet, but you obviously have the only opportunity to keep on showing yourself to the government and the institutions of this state. I am not going to give you a warning, although under Article 214 I have the right to do so, but today as yesterday we will go without such strict measures, but I ask you, as I ask the other MPs either to sit on the left side of this assembly or on the right, to stay away from these qualifications and insults during their discussions. My intervention as chairman here is well-intentioned, I don't want to point out further things, but I want to be polite, normal and reasoned here and not to be pre-indicted by people who have nothing to do and who don't know what's going to be in the future. I ask you all together colleagues, to begin this session in a dignified and reasoned way, not to serve such qualifications as Mr Pancic, who continues to work in this session as he did in the past. ... Now there's a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Krono... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you throw me and insult me, then I'll call you back, Mr. Pancic. For now, I want to be correct. But I'm asking you gentlemen to be correct. Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, even though it would be simple to say I'm correcting the whole exposure, it's impossible, so I just have to say this. If we're talking about a coastal suite that the government encourages it, it's not true. The largest apartmentization of illegal construction took place precisely in your time because you made a law by which illegally built buildings could be connected to the infrastructure and that the entire coast was concreteized, built without your finger being removed. Second thing, you're attacking the judiciary. It's not true that the judiciary doesn't take as much as possible, but it's hard to tell the judiciary today when a Goran Strok turns out to be a victim, and we know well that he's got, that you've set up hotels for him for small money, you've invested a lot before, and now, suddenly, from the one that should be investigated by the judiciary, you're making a sacrifice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u217	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u218	The Honorable President in his speech, Mr. Pancic, misusing one term. In the neighborhood, we have a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he mentioned only some Republika Srpska entity in his speech, at least as if it were a sovereign state. The state's name is Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u219	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic also corrected the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u220	Mr. President, it is very difficult for me to correct Mr. Pancic, because he has made so many accusations not only on the government in the previous term but on all institutions, the institutions that have worked on the projects, any roadways or bridges, no matter what infrastructure affairs, he has accused everything of corruption, he has accused everything of crime and it is truly amazing. And I would ask the president of the club or party president to talk to the gentleman and explain to him that he simply can't function anymore in Croatian politics today. We don't accept that. We do not want such a conversation in the Croatian Parliament, and it is your party's turn to talk to you, to educate you a little so that you can function in the Croatian Parliament and understand what democracy is. If you have any evidence, please report it to the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u221	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Prime Minister with future ministers and ministers. I'd like to start by saying a little story about wedding preparations, and it's something old, something blue, something new, something stolen. I feel like I see a very well-prepared bride in this program of government, but good wedding preparations don't mean a good marriage. In reviewing the government's proposed programme, unfortunately, I saw nothing that would impress me or make me think that finally things are still moving. Mr. Chairman, please introduce a little order now and ensure working conditions. Thank you very much. Persons with disabilities cannot enter a single system that will promote and protect their rights. Even when it comes to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, it's mostly about the Ministry of Health. I believe that the future minister will have so much sensitivity and will increase the social care system a little bit. Unfortunately, by abolishing the Ministry of Labour and Social Care at the beginning of the last term of this same government, the same old person with disabilities does not consistently follow any systems. In the meantime, not only have some rights been abolished, but many have not even been introduced, and unfortunately since the last census in 2001, when we counted 421 thousand people with disabilities today, we have reached 480,000 inhabitants of our country who have one of the disabilities. In the programme offered by the Government, people with disabilities are not mentioned in part of human rights, although Croatia is among the first signatories of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I wouldn't say much, but I'd like to try to repeat to you the words of our and your ministers and you personally, Mr. Prime Minister. My representative question since 3 November 2004 was referred to Mrs Kosor in which I ask why the money shown in the 2004 budget as part of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship was secured for the functioning of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, which was already spent on the 11th month of that year. Also within the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, the money was not spent at the 11th month either. So, the first 11 months of that year. That's what Mrs. Kosor told me about the Fund that she couldn't answer me and that I had to ask the Resoring Ministry. However, the question arises as to how it is possible for the Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government of Croatia to have no insight into persons with disabilities or not to be interested in what is happening with the employment of persons with disabilities. That is precisely what the need for a single ministry to regulate social policy towards all groups of people at risk. It also informs me in writing of pilot projects carried out by the Government on small groups of people with disabilities. But let's move on. At the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament held on 27 January 2004, I asked the question when it would begin to equalise the rights of persons with disabilities regardless of how, place and cause of disability, which was otherwise foreseen by the national strategy from 2003 to 2006. To me, the Minister also answers, this national strategy concerns all persons with disabilities, both genders of all age groups. He also says it is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia and will be implemented by 2006. However, it should be pointed out that it also shows in this response which I can deliver to you, because it has been delivered to me in writing, it should be pointed out that this shows huge resources of the state budget and that the coordination process will largely depend on economic and other opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. This is exactly where people with disabilities become hostages of the state budget, because I wonder if the economy has evolved so much, if we have everything increased, if we're very good, where are these money for various projects and the rest that protect people with disabilities? How to trust the Government, who, from its formation in the former current composition, says that according to the strategy, will amend existing laws and regulations, create professional analytical bases, develop psychosocial support programmes for children who care for parents with disabilities, organise public debates, etc., while at the same time abolishing the right to pay VAT on imports of cars to people with disabilities, abolishing the compensation for the transport of children with developmental difficulties and only to pressure the opposition restores that right. It does not monitor the growth of living costs and does not raise the amount of personal disability that was last raised from 725 kuna to 1,000 kuna and since then have not raised a single kuna. So this is 2008. And just one note. Since this morning, the city of Zagreb and the mayor of Zagreb have been attacked. The truth works, persons with disabilities, the rightholders of the personal disability in the City of Zagreb receive another monthly fee of 200 kuna, payment of municipal directors and free help in performing household chores. But the government thinks it's moving on, and it actually seems to me it's going to stay in place. In its swing of social sensitivity, social justice and the foundations of social inclusion, the government does not pass any law that would contribute to the previously spoken words, except for the Law on the status of parent parents and unfortunately again on a small and constrained number of children. Mr. Sanader, I've asked you a representative question. I thought that you as an eloquent man who holds a strong impression, but not the content to answer that question, but other than being known for your good body language, you are also known for not loving very unpleasant situations and always avoiding them. You leave hot potatoes to your ministers and close associates, so by answering my parliamentary question all the time you've talked about handball law, and I've asked you about children with developmental difficulties. But we're moving on, but unfortunately not too far. This society continues to operate on pilot projects of which only few have a somewhat organized quality of life, and if they are close with persons with disabilities who are controlled by the Government. You said in your opening statement that no one has the right to step away from responsibility, and I wonder why you've stepped back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u223	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u224	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs! I don't know how long it would take me if I tried to fix everything that my colleague Škulić said. But only a few things. I think all fellow MPs should know that it is not true that this government does not take care of persons with disabilities or that it has not led through the past period. We all know that in 2007 it was a year of equal opportunities and it is no accident that the government signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Which means we should all be clear. By signing and ratifying the Convention, the Government has guaranteed one of the highest levels of respect for the rights of persons with disabilities. As for the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u225	Finish it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u226	It's not that either, I'd just like to tell you that you don't know where the money went. The money is divided in accordance with the requirements. Any request has been granted which was based on the law and the money that has not been spent has been returned to the state budget. And you all know it very well... /Applause./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u227	It's Madam Representative Gordana Sobol's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u228	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, candidates and candidates, colleagues and colleagues! This morning we received the Government Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office of 2008. - 2011 which, I will agree with someone who had said before me, actually when I compare it to a coalition agreement on forming a parliamentary majority for the term of office 2007. – In 2011, between the three parties, it is essentially nothing but some form of slaughtered coalition agreements. HDZ coalition agreements with individual coalition partners. I'm actually sorry that there was no time or desire I'd say sooner that somehow all these coalition agreements are really being translated into a single government programme. This is basically what we're talking about in one part of the government's programme and then in the other part we've got further coalition agreements slaughtered. And now, of course, you should comb well and see if everything that is written in these additional coalition agreements is even included in the government's programme. What I would also like to say by not entering, of course, and I will not evaluate, is particularly estimated whether all the proposed candidates and candidates are capable and competent enough for the resolutions they will receive, for which the parliamentary majority today will choose them. That's what time will show its own. But I have to say that really when on this page of the coalition agreement, which is in the final line, it says, the decision-making criterion for personal issues, what the coalition will respect when it comes to personal solutions from the well-known area of professional competence, vision and motivation for its achievement, commitment to public service, integrity and respect for regulations, ethical principles, governance and skills. I still think that some candidates should wonder if they meet all these standards? So I'll just remind you briefly. When we talk about commitment to work for the public benefit that we have had in the past term cases that our ministers were chaired by supervisory boards and boards of directors who, where they decided on state property, where they were affairs and they said they knew nothing about it and that they couldn't know. So much for talking about public gain. But what I would especially like to point out in my presentation, or warn, is that area that I have been following for several years more or less. It's an area of gender equality. An additional clagvort gave me a mandate when in some way it was challenged here at, from this pay phone in response to colleague Opacic talking about how this future government in its programme will therefore work in a way on gender equality, on improving women's position, and listed a number of areas, employment measures and the like. So then I'm in a break that was a little longer than I normally went to take another look at that proposed government program thinking maybe I missed something. Maybe there's something written somewhere that I haven't seen when it comes to the problem that the prime minister was talking about. However, when it comes to women, in this programme of government, I think women are mentioned somewhere in three places as workers in the leather industry, as mothers and pregnant women, and as young women who are said to be able to do so in 2008 in some way not to be discriminated against in employment. Mr. Prime Minister! Gender equality is much, much more and much wider and much different from what you wrote in this coalition agreement, or in the Government programme, or what you did not write down. It is convenient to mention otherwise a series of national policies in this programme. National policy to promote gender equality, which has been strongly defended in the adoption of 2006, is not mentioned in a single letter. In its introduction, the first sentence in this national policy says: National policy to promote gender equality is the basic strategic document of the Republic of Croatia, which is adopted with the aim of eliminating discrimination between women and the establishment of real gender equality by implementing a policy of equal opportunities for the period from 2006 to 2010. Or somewhere on the page behind that, it says: In the process of accession negotiations with the European Union, the adoption and implementation of national policy also means the adoption and implementation of one of the important strategic documents that meets the political criteria for membership related to further harmonisation of legislation with the acquis and the improvement of equal opportunities policy. From what it says in this national policy, a colleague, Opačić, said in a way that, in fact, parts of the National Population Policy were literally prescribed in this programme. Unfortunately for those national policies, it is not even mentioned in this programme. Or when it comes to equality between women and men, or even positions, then there is one sentence or end of a sentence under the family section where it says what will be in the next term of priority. Well, in the end, he says, and special care will be devoted to increasing equality in family and society. What it means, how and how it doesn't stand here in this program. If we're going to do it the way it is now, somewhere about a month ago, there's been a study conducted by the Government's Office for Gender Equality on the position of women on the labour market. And imagine, there's been data that we've been repeating for years and research on it already exists that there's discrimination against women on the labour market any time they're hired, whenever it's about getting fired when they decide to be mothers and especially when they need to go back to work or when they're about to do something 50 or more years when no one else is going to. And then the government says that, imagine, discrimination on the labour market when it comes to women being abolished by proposing an ethical code that will be signed by employers who will oblige employers not to discriminate women in employment, work, etc. Please, all anti-discrimination provisions exist in the Labour Act and they are not implemented, they are not respected, and we now think that by the ethical code, or this future government yesterday, we will think that we will force employers to be here to say better to women. Or, I wonder what we're going to do on the fact that in Croatia 20 percent less than men are paid for the same job of the same value. Unfortunately, there is nothing in national politics either, but there is, of course, even less in the work programme. What are we going to do about harmonising family and professional life? There's nothing about it in national politics, and I guess that's why there's nothing in this government's work programme either. I will actually conclude by saying that when it comes to women, their position in Croatia, their participation in decision-making bodies, so where in some way the power and money are concentrated as far as past and future governments are concerned, is actually going to change nothing, and that the policy that this government has implemented when women remain the same, and that means that we will probably take at least some steps when it comes to combating violence against women or suppressing domestic violence, but when it comes to the employment of women, when it comes to harmonising family and professional life, when it comes to the participation of women in decision-making processes this government will not do anything in the future, because it is not enough to just say, it is not enough from the opportunity to talk about statistics, but it is also necessary to implement certain things in the work. I'm sure this government is in no condition to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u229	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Madam Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, mostly more or less I agree with Mrs. Sobol, but this about national policies is a little bit as strange and because of gender equality they're kind of mentioned in this government program. However, the national single policy strategy for people with disabilities who had just been passed by the second half, I think last year by 2015, it does not even mention the equalisation of the rights of persons with disabilities, meaning what was to be done by 2006. Then, it was just about the pilot projects. There was no framework legislation that would solve the problem of people with disabilities. I think women can be much more content than people with disabilities. Croatia has also signed among the first UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but it has not set out to equalise its legislation with people with disabilities, so I think that women are a little more content and I believe that women with disabilities will also be identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u231	Thank you very much. Do you want an answer? No, I don't. There's one correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u232	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's the second time you've been through an incorrect quote. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u233	Mr. President, counsel Sobol must know that the government's programme cannot determine the price of work. The labour price determines the labour market. Secondly, trade unions are fought for the price of work through collective agreements, so it certainly does not need to be expected that in this programme the government will write the labour price for any group whether they are women, whether they are men or any other activity. It also cannot be written in the government program that the government will not know how many people to hire. Well, that determines the labour market. The government needs to create conditions for that, and that's exactly what this program is all about. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u234	Correction Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. So for the second time, there was an incorrect quote just before, Mršić, and now colleague Sobol, it is not clear whether coalition agreements are part of the government's programme. So if you had really read more carefully, as you said, then you would have learned on the second page at the basic points that it was an integral part of the government's programme. All additional private agreements concluded with representatives of national minorities and with the president of the Croatian Pension Party as well as a coalition agreement between coalition partners is an integral part of the government's programme. So that's the incorrect thesis you've already been through twice. If you had read more carefully, you would have seen what was true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u236	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ante Kotromanović's turn. Here you go. ... Excuse me, Mr. Kotromanović. He has a reply to the replica before that. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[The intruder can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u237	Thank you. I don't know about the replica my colleague Škulić gave me can't be more satisfying than people with disabilities because people with disabilities are basically one huge group and in the same way I would say treated in this government programme. As far as a person with disabilities is concerned, it is mentioned that this national strategy will be implemented to enable so-called equal opportunities. In which way and how, of course, this programme is not mentioned and I am aware that all measures in such a programme can't even be mentioned, but then this programme of government is one such mouse I would say to whom it came down to, so only the conditions are mentioned somewhere and the measures are mentioned somewhere and concrete measures will be taken. In particular, for example, when it comes to amending the Labour Act when it comes to the trade of fellow Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u238	Thank you very much. ... Mr. Ante Kotromanović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u239	Dear President of the Parliament, fellow MPs. Here I have carefully read that part of the programme basis and the HDZ coalition agreement, the HNS, the HSS as regards particularly defenders and armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, and I have seen that there are good things to understand. And yet I saw something else that had no fresh ideas, that there were no ideas that could enlarge even better and better quality work with defenders and work with members of the Croatian Army. ... So come on, shall I speak, or will they speak? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. [[Intruder: Please!]] Give me a minute to be parliamentary. Accordingly, as an old soldier, I have decided to propose a few measures and a few things that seem to me to be smart and that are of top interest to the defenders of the Croatian Army and I hope that my colleague Kosorica and future Minister Vukelić will listen well. And that, that it will implement what is called yours, your programs, and that will be useful to the defenders themselves. I don't know how much you know, but this Defense Act has handled people with disabilities, victims, essentially all kinds of victims. Very well solved and I'm very happy with him, but he didn't solve the other category of people that, that's the mass part. It is several hundred thousand people who were members of the Croatian Army, volunteers, who are now on the verge of existence living. Some work, of course, some don't. I think you should give the gravity in that context absolutely. Because today there are about 25 to 30 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders and they are part of this society. I say they live on the edge of existence. I met them. During these years I have made over 80 stands and I have seen that part of the people and I think we should take a little, especially undescribed care of those people who were members of the Croatian Army but even more years than really. And I will therefore propose, for example, that the Minister of Economy have a special department to monitor the employment of members of the Croatian military or defenders and that it will inform us every year as far as it is resolved, I say, during the year, of members of the Croatian Army or of the defenders. I will also suggest and suggest that for this very category of people who are very, very difficult to start thinking about how to take care of them in a stable manner. Many of them are without an apartment. So these are people who are not disabled, who are not victims who live among us. You probably know a lot of people like me, something like POS. I also suggest, I'm glad the defense attorney is going to be Minister of Health. I suggest better and better care. We need to do something for these people. They've been waiting a few months for a head CT, a magnetic resonance. These are people who are frustrated, who are sick. I think we should do something to speed things up. That they have this possibility of getting to the doctor as soon as possible. I also suggest that we introduce these preventive checks not only for disabled people but for all kinds of members, for example, for all defenders every two years because they are no longer suicide problems. I'm good at it. The biggest problems today are the various diseases that attack us. The tumors and similar things that attack us. In recent months, here in the last three months, only mine, my three colleagues died like that, one in "jogging" died. Simply, his heart cares, and I think that I should say that these people have preventive checks every two years and that we can track what diseases they're torturing and who are bothering the defenders. I also suggest and I think that Minister Kosorica will understand me, today when a man wants to initiate a procedure for recognising the status of disabled people until the final status of disabled persons and obtaining a pension takes about 4 years. Of course, I don't blame the Department of Defense here. We have 9 to 10 commissions, I don't know how many commissions and these people are terribly tortured and frustrated. The last member of the Croatian Army I personally know was my soldier, Pavić from Sinj, who killed himself because the subject had been lying on these commissions for 5 years, I don't know, from Split to Zagreb. I think that it should break, literally militaryly break these bureaucratic procedures and speed up these procedures so that people get a solution whether it's positive or negative. I think it's one of the more important and important problems. I hope you understand, ma'am, that you'll do something about it, as planned. I'd also like the Defense Fund not to... With 1.3 explaining to people that these shares are very important, very valuable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they didn't sell them like that "jutura and free", we know well that there are many tycoons of the Homeland War and should explain to people that the Defence Fund is a good idea, a good idea and that it is maintained as long as possible. It's one closed type of fund so people can accumulate their rights and resources over the years that come behind us. Mr. Sanader, I'd like you to help me out a little bit. I am very sad that this new system of points is making us members of the Croatian Army who were active participants in the war. It means who we were fighting. Maybe there's about 140 grand of us somewhere. I'll just take an example, here, maybe it's not the best way, myself. But I've been through all these battlefields. I've been in a series of battles. I have fewer, I have fewer points than I have one secretary I don't insult, I don't want to offend anyone in the MUP and the MORH, which has continued since 1990. She may have 5,000 points. I've got three grand and some points. I was in command of a dozen, of water, of company, of brigades and of operational groups. And tomorrow I... I have a conversation with the Hague investigators in a few days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Give me something you can do in that context. I find that unfair. For that category of people who truly fought and fought for the Croatian state. I also suggest that we have a new medal "The Hero of the Homeland War". And I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister to help me. You know who our heroes or antiheroes are today. People who have the most medals. That's the man who's in Vienna now. He has the highest medals in the Croatian Army. And here's something for the dead members of the Croatian Army. There are about 15 thousand of them, and they died a lot of them with honor and honesty. And Mr. Prime Minister probably knows Father Ratomer Kliskovic, who, the soldier who died in the IV Guard Brigade, was wounded twice before that by pulling the wounded. In the end, he died that same day. Let's have a mild Zadar for a hero. We don't have, we don't have this new medal new to single out those people who served and died for the Croatian state: Marko Pavić, Goran Kliskovic, Vlatko Rudic, Frank Fox, not to list all the people I know, who were the right, the right guys. When we talk about the problems in Morh, I'm glad there's a future minister and a former minister. Do you know, here's the strike IV Guard Brigade, the elite unit as many people as there are today? There's about 1600 people. It's about 500 to 600 on sick leave. They are located most of them in daily treatment at the Psychiatric Hospital in Split because they want out of the system. I've read that, I like it, there's a lot of things that are good, but I think we should give the weight to people. That's what I was gonna say. Because people are demoted. They're no longer motivated. Because a soldier, a guard, has a salary of 3600 kuna. I think there should be something more to do about it because it's poorly equipped. And I'm telling you that NATO's Croatian planes will not ask to fly over Afghanistan but will seek cannon meat. So upstairs are members of the IV Guard brigade, military police and other people. The question is, the day someone gets killed up there, it's roulette, of course. I believe that these people must have a better status in the Croatian Army, and I wanted to say this, that I should be given the focus to equip the Guard brigades. They proved themselves in the war as task force, we performed all operations at the head of the Guard brigades, and now I think I should put a weight on the equipment first of them, the motivation of the people, and later on, this is the second thing that's armored vehicles, aviation, etc. I also think as another thing that is very important to me, that we should better and faster, with faster deadlines to equip that Coast Guard or Navy that is located I think as part of the Coast Guard because from 1.1. the application of ZERP has started. I think that what I said in the introduction, 15 thousand people round, something more, to preserve the borders of the Republic of Croatia and at sea every pedal and on land every pedal and I think that we should absolutely do everything about these priorities to make sure that the Coast Guard and the Navy in this first cycle put it into operation so that it can be controlled, because today we don't have any major threats from neither the east nor the west, the greatest threat we can have is going to be Italian and Slovenian fishermen flying into our sea. Here I am so briefly saying it all together, I want a new minister full of success, also continuity in work, a lot of success, and hopefully here I am for the first time speaking in the House that I was good. I thought I was good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u240	Thank you. We have a lot of corrections. Mrs. Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u241	I just wanted to say for a little while, my colleague mentioned the disabled in his presentation. I would ask that we use the official term of disabled persons in this House. It has been an official term in the Republic of Croatia since 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u242	Okay. Thank you. Tomislav Ivić, here's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only correct my colleague Kotromanovic who says there are currently between 25 and 30 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders. That information is not correct. The number is significantly smaller, the number is below 20,000 unemployed Croatian defenders and I can say that over the past four years, more than 7,000 unemployed Croatian defenders have been employed through the measures of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. And the other thing is, it's incorrect that through the secretary's score system, they can have more points than members of the combat squad. Just so that it wouldn't happen, the rating system has divided into a combat and non-combat sector, so it's practically impossible. And what's important, all the regulations that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity brought from the law to this point was made in cooperation with the organizations of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bozica Solic, here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is representative Kotromanovic said in his debate that there is nothing new in this government programme for defenders. That is not true, because the main objective in this programme is to emphasize the dignity of Croatian defenders. But my dear colleague, I respect you immensely as a Croatian defender, I say so here at the High House, but you must know that it took for more than a year to correct the former government of all the injustices that your contemplator has just done to a political Mr. Pancic who was a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u246	Thank you very much. Correction Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u247	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct in this series of inaccuracies that my colleague Kotromanovic made, I will only correct some, which is that there are no active employment measures, that there is no plan for the employment of Croatian defenders. He is defined and through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, he handles more than 7,000 of the newly employed. Co-operatives founded and supported by the Croatian Defence Ministry certainly employ new Croatian defenders. I also want to say that it is absolutely impossible for the secretary who was in the office to have the same number of points because it is clearly distinguished which is combative, which is the non-combat sector. If you didn't sign her up to be in the fighting sector, then she doesn't have the same number of points. If you signed her, she has the same number of points.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u248	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Zubović's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. esteemed colleague Kotromanović, I'd like to make it right if the secretary has more points than you do. I think it's as incorrect as most of your exposure isn't correct. If you say what that secretary's name is, I'd like you to tell us, or at least to me, and we'll check that mistake, tell us the name and last name of that secretary, then your exposure will be true. If you don't tell us the name and last name of that secretary, you're not telling the truth here. That's one thing. Another thing Mr Kotromanović here in the Croatian Parliament is that one minister should not refer to Kosorica but Mrs Kosor, Minister Kosor etc. Using expressions... If I didn't, it's not appropriate here, Mr. Kotromanovic, we should be a little different. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u250	Thank you very much. We have another correction. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u251	So I still have to correct Mr. Kotromanovic's incorrect allegations that he unfortunately hardened NATO will seek cannon meat while referring to Croatian soldiers. I think it's wrong first, secondly, and it's inadmissible politically because it creates a false perception of what NATO does, how it does, and what kind of people it needs. I've personally been to Afghanistan several times in all parts, I've visited several times Croatian soldiers, and I want to say very simply the following. NATO is looking for professional soldiers, well-prepared, well-trained, and these were precisely Croatian soldiers, and I also said in this Croatian Assembly, they are the best diplomats in the best way to promote Croatian state politics and Croatian state interests on the international stage in such a challenging mission. Given the need for the Croatian public to understand well what NATO is doing, since we need political support, Croatian people, it is extremely important to understand what NATO is doing and how it is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u252	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, once again just for the record that we know how to deal with each other, we mention that in addition to countless corrections of incorrect allegations we have 22 more applications to discuss. Just for the record, and I'm going to voice hope again that maybe that, with your consent, that number might be slightly reduced. Let's move on. It's Mr. Agent Neven Mimica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will talk about two or only two specifics of the new government's work programme, public administration reform and integration policy. Unfortunately, both of these components only contribute to my dissatisfaction with what is being offered to the Croatian public as an implementing programme of measures of the new government. For a well-designed state improvement programme in any area, a detailed and precise analysis of the existing situation must first be drawn up. If such an analysis were made for the area of public administration, it would undoubtedly result in several important results and conclusions. It would have been the first to believe that the separation of political and administrative management in the public administration had not been implemented in a unique way, that the merits were not considered to be a major element for progress in the service, that the role and responsibility of civil servants were not individually defined, that the salary was not in line with the working effect, that the management of taxpayers' funds is not optimal, that the over-response role of state and policy in the restructuring of funds through the budget, that changes in the legislation are frequent and often hastent, that the number of unemployed in the state administration and persons dependent on the functioning of the state administration, that inadequate motivation and work ethics reduces the effectiveness of the work of the administration, that there is a closed state administration towards the users of services and citizens, that so on the so-called state administration. The reform of the state administration at the end of 2003 is merely a limited project of the last government which has narrowed down to the number of ministries and ministers in the government, that this limited procedure is also devalued by today's re-enlarged number of ministries and ministers, and that the 2005 Law on State officials is only a poor attempt to conceal the intention of maintaining a politicised state administration without a real desire to implement the reform of the administration. Croatia is a public administration of three and red taped, expensive and wide, and citizens have no confidence in it. However, such a state administration has shown its willingness to promote the process of adapting to the acquis of the European Union, but only thanks to the capacity of a small number of individuals, not to the systematic action of administrative bodies as a whole. The successful functioning of the conditions of membership in the European Union will require a short period of time of major shifts and reforms that will lead our public administration to a level of a functioning system capable of participating equally in the European administrative space, on European public administration principles. Such an analysis of the state administration's situation imposes the need for its thorough reform, more thoroughly than it has been offered here to enable a more efficient administrative system to reduce the costs of the administration, improve coordination and coherence in the work of the administration, redistribute functions between the level of government and between classical administrative bodies and executive agencies, improve the management of functions common to the entire government sector, especially functions such as human resources management, budget management and legislative planning. If coalition partners had the readiness to analyse the situation in the administration then their programme of public administration reform would be far more ambitious, more concrete, more convincing, and most importantly closer to the real needs and expectations of citizens, and citizens expect changes in the behaviour and actions of civil servants and state institutions in a way that creates a smaller, more professional, more efficient, more cost-effective Croatian public administration that is able in a relatively short time to travel a long way from the rule and management of citizens to the service of citizens. The government's programme, unfortunately, does not give them hope that this will happen even in the term of office of this government. And now another important program issue that I want to say something about. The government's programme rightly emphasises all the priorities of the euro integration process. The SDP will certainly be a partner to all those who will strengthen Croatia's reform capacity, so much needed for better life in better Croatia and for Croatia's more prepared entry into EU membership. We will also support the important role of the Croatian Parliament in this process and, in particular, the work of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Accession Negotiations with the European Union. But we want the National Committee to be a real forum for broader discussions and proposals that will contribute to the quality of the reforms that prepare us for membership, not just the place of formal confirmation of the government's negotiating positions. When we criticise and question the reform capacity of the new government programme from the SDP, we do so from constructive positions. This is not the way we plead against Europe or the alliances for Europe, so that some would set it up for us. By pointing to the fully visible reform deficits of the programme, we are strengthening the alliance for Europe's Croatia, which is much more important than the alliances for Europe. If anyone among political rivals or in the media in this concept of SDP's euro integration policy finds any indication of Euroscepticism or the confusion of European partners, then it can only be a failed attempt to discredit our strongest political instruments. The SDP is originally a pro-European party according to its vote, political orientation. Today we are equally pro-European-oriented and Eurooptimistic as we were yesterday and as we will be tomorrow. We would like the euro to be more optimistic and in the programme with which the new government today presents itself to the Croatian public. A few more words. I am sorry that the part of the programme on foreign policy disappeared from a clear and firm statement on implementation, the way in which the environmental and fisheries components of the ZERP are implemented, but there is nothing to say about the Mediterranean dimension of our foreign policy, and in that part there is a wrong interpretation that the completion of the process of entry into the European Union is an external political process, while in any case the internal political reform process is primarily. In the end, as much as I respect the right and duty of each new government to draw up a programming document that will touch the limits of its own abilities, this programme is still merely a catalogue of good intentions and a list of promises. And that is why it is not possible to give confidence to a government that, in its programme, generally gives answers to questions that it wants and very rarely answers the question of how and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u254	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u255	Mr. President, members of the future government! We received the Government Programme of the Republic of Croatia by 2011. It looks like a beautiful movie called "My Songs, My Dreams." However, there was one screenwriter in the film and there were obviously more writers who failed to agree, so in this programme the government is one combination of obviously not finished. And in this programme, it obviously depends on the director-in-chief and on the choice of actors who may be good, it may not depend on whether this programme itself is going to be in four years, whether it will be a good movie or whether it will be a movie "B" production. When we talk about health care in 2003, there were a lot of stories about how the debt remained, how the system was about to collapse. In Chapter 17.1., it states to implement the consolidation of the health system and the financing system. Therefore, the previous government has done nothing better or worse than the SDP-led government, which means that structural reforms have not been implemented in the system itself and that the system generates around 100 million kuna each month, so we expect this financial reconstruction of the health system to cost taxpayers around 4 to 5 billion kuna again. I wish my colleague Milinovic luck. He's got the hottest chair in the government. And his problem will be how to meet the needs of the system and how to finance it. What worries me about this is that, on page 76, the suspension of the administrative fee. We all gave up administrative fees in the pre-election campaign, so he gave up HDZ. However, on the page, it writes, after the adoption of the tax number, to elaborate the amendment proposal and the legal framework for the financing of the health insurance system with part of the market base with the protection of special population meetings. That means, my dears, that the health system in my possession goes into private hands, that we will again give out of our pocket a certain financial compensation as we have given for the administrative system. If anyone can talk me out of it, please let them talk me out of it. But it definitely means that the health system, what we have kept for years, is within the state to be a social system, to move to the market and to become part of market relations, to relationships in which there are no such social elements as social elements should be if the state protects the financing of the health system. In financial consolidation, he says, erasing words to cover losses. This means that, and there are no signs of reform of the health system throughout the programme, it means that my colleague Mršić in Koprivnica will need to find funds to finance the loss because if the system is not restructured, it will continue to generate losses, which means that local self-government will have to find funds that do not have to consolidate the system itself. When we talk about primary health care, I also said that at first there were obviously more writers and something went on, something didn't. We clearly support the expansion of home health and the extension of home health, but it has been forgotten that other things need to be put in that home of health. A colleague, Kotromanovic, spoke about veterinary health, about veterans. The well-known mental health centers are, trying to establish these centers, and then eventually one or two of them ended up giving up. And what's left of us swears to the islands and swears to special areas of special concern. In this programme on this, it means health care on islands and health care in areas of special health care, there's not a word like I say my wishes, my dreams. What I am pleased to do is, in a way, to give up privatisation in primary health care because it is put out of effect of the Regulation on conditions and procedure for the lease of parts of the home of health and medical institutions. So you stop that one process... which began in '95. He brought a great evil in primary health care, for in primary health care no one is satisfied, neither are the patients nor the doctors who work in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us hope that coalition partners will also condition or affect their main partner that this... Stop and make a final reform of primary health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about hospital facilities, there's nothing about reform either. However, one indent writes that county hospitals will continue to be equipped with new equipment, a magnetic resonance apparatus for each county hospital. Gentlemen, what about the county hospitals where the ceilings fall off, where there's no other apparatus? Do they need magnetic resonance or self-repair? And an old story. The financial consolidation of all hospitals will take place. So the rest is the same as four years ago. If there is no reform of the system and four years from now, consolidation will also be carried out. As for the personnel in the system, it's about categorization. However, there is nowhere to talk about improving the material attitude of people working in a system of nurses, other healthcare professionals and doctors who are currently underpaid. And from this program, I don't see anything that would bring any improvement to the very people who work in health care. And they basically carry the health system themselves. And in the end I think that we're going to have this program of government in health care written just so that it's and it's not going to happen because here it is, and it says that the hospital in Blato is going to be built in 2013. The hospital that ended 30%. If it takes this government five years to finish it or seven, then it probably won't end this program that's written like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u256	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u257	Very short. When you mentioned financial consolidation in health care that should occur and which will, above all, reflect on efficient business in hospitals, thus and better service to our citizens, i.e. patients. Here has recently appeared this propaganda that appeals to the citizens and the very very hospital of Peter called "pregnant" where here is the country very briefly and simply asked our citizens to renew something so in the interest and when we swear to a population policy, so there is no means to restore the delivery department, or that part of the hospital itself, is something that is actually embarrassing. Citizens will certainly also help as much as they can and help the state instead of the other way around, that the state helps them but something is also frapantic, something that offends women's dignity, that on that occasion, please show only the belly of women from which there is a source of bricks. It's something inadmissible, it's playing with a human body, especially a woman's body. It's something to react to. And here I am, probably the lawyer for gender equality will come forward. But here, my colleague, I'm also drawing attention to this in accordance with what you've been saying in general about these problems... In hospitals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u258	Thank you. Answer Mr. Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u259	Well, it's on the trail of what's written in the program that the program is basically socially insensitive and healthless, that there's no plan to reorganize hospitals. I know that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will take the money out of their pocket and believe it the most drawn by people who have the smallest incomes they are always the most socially sensitive. But I think that the state must intervene in such cases and that magnetic resonance in every county hospital is not what Croatia needs at the moment but needs modern hospitals such as Zabok and Koprivnica as it is written in the programme itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u260	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u261	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So by reading these materials today, I have asked myself a question that is actually the greatest task of our parliamentary representatives as well as the government that we present here today. My answer is that our task is to ensure a greater quality of life in Croatia. In the SDP, we consider this to be a social democratic vision of the quality of life and, in our opinion, the quality of life that we as parliamentary representatives, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia must provide to the citizens of Croatia, is more than a standard of living. The quality of life in us assumes freedom as well as freedom from fear. It represents a security that is greater than human solidarity, a chance for self-determination and self-confirmation, for meaningful use of your own strength in work, in play, in life together, for participation in nature and values of culture, a chance to stay or become healthy. My question is whether today's government can achieve this goal for the citizens of Croatia. Unfortunately, it seems to me that neither the programme presented to us nor the majority of the people who should be achieving this programme are guaranteeing that Croatia will live better in four years. The government program we got has good sides. And we're gonna support those things in SDP. However, much of this programme stems from the coalition agreement, and in many places it is simply mixed and broken often without logic and platform with only one idea, to enable the formation of the government. So, as a whole, when we look at this document, our citizens have received a vague strategy of everything a little bit, or a vague state policy that is unsettled in many segments and is probably deliberately subject to personal and political criteria. There are many examples. As time goes by, I won't bother you all. So let's say, if we look at what it says about state policy towards ports, shipyards, privatisation has no answer. It's all wrapped in some kind of fog. But what is interesting is precisely what needs to be done for the future of Zagreb Airport and Osijek but Rijeka Airport is not mentioned at all, although the potentials of Rijeka Airport are within the framework of the river traffic direction of strategic importance for Croatia. Finally, a few words about health care since counterpart Mrsic said a very important part. What I want to say as my personal opinion, I also find it a huge mistake that we have not separated health and social policy and at Ministry level. And what I particularly think is not good is that this government, as well as the previous government, is missing the chance to change the name of this ministry. It's supposed to be called the Ministry of Health. It's not just symbolic. Health, improvement, health care, prevention and treatment of diseases is a job that is not just a job of the health system, it is much wider than that. And the Ministry of Health would actually be the right name for a single ministry that is crucial to every nation. As far as health reform is concerned, which is indicated only in this programme, I can say that health reform in Croatia has become a myth that lasts for 17 years and in this bribe, the only thing that happens is that every year Croatian citizens have less and less available health care. I'm afraid this proposal will not make it any better in the period ahead of us. My colleague Mrsic didn't say anything about emergency medical care, so let me just point out that sector as an example of unemployment in the past meeting of the Ministry of Health. According to the 2003 Health Protection Act, expert advice on emergency medical assistance was to be established for the Ministry of Health, which was to pass a whole series of legal and sublegal acts, the protocol on how emergency medical care should be operated. If I asked you how many times this expert advice met in four years, I'd probably be given a one-digit number, but the number's zero. Therefore, no protocol that was to be adopted has been adopted. So probably for this reason, this passage is like this, and it does not actually offer any future to one of the key activities in the health care system. A colleague, Mrsic, says the Blato Hospital will be built in 2013. And what do we say, Rivera? It says to build KBC in Rijeka. When? Empty. In 2020, perhaps as Minister Ljubicic said. Therefore, I ask that I insist that the future Government declare itself on the dynamics of the construction of the Clinical Hospital Centre in Rijeka and that until the final construction it will also explain how it will invest in the second most important hospital center in the Republic of Croatia. And I conclude, the highest rate of youth unemployed in Europe after Poland is in Croatia and the highest rate of high-level staff drains in transition countries is also in Croatia. This program we got today doesn't give me the guarantee that this will change, and that's why I can't give confidence to a government like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u262	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Hanzek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u263	President-in-Office, the respected future ministers, I am Ivan Hanzek. At least once at this age, I belong to the youngest and it's an internship in the Parliament. I come from Hrvatska Zagorje and I am one of the four to be offended by the distinguished Vice President Jarnjak, but the one from the central part of Zagorje MPs. Two in opposition, two in the ruling structure. And it's an honor and a pleasure to be in this debate today, but since I'm the mayor of a small town, then I'm pragmatic. We have too little time to change something important or something, and in my view, with an indication of what we expect or what we expected in the programme, a far more important moment of evaluation of the intentions of the future but then the Government will already be the Proposed Budget of the Republic of Croatia. And so I'll be brief. This is the courteous part. I will only briefly note that it may not be lost in the meantime to welcome the infrastructure in the Zagorje area of connection between Varazdin and Šemnica and the area of the town of Krapina. But I hope that doesn't mean forgetting, giving up building the quick road of Mokrice, Oroslavje, Maria Bistrica. The esteemed Vice President has not yet begun. And before that, the merger with the Flemish Huma. This is extremely important for the eastern part of our Zagorje but not only Zagorje but also Prigorje. It is also extremely important for what I have a mission to pass on, and this is that thousands of pilgrims can get to the shrines that we consider our most important, the Marijan Shrine of Maria Bistrica can come faster and simpler, but also to ensure the rapid economic development of this region. Traffic is definitely a condition, an assumption of economic development. And another topic I'm going to mention, the correction of the incorrect quote I'm going to say about Bračak Hospital. I hope here is the new Minister Milinovic, with the support of parliamentary representatives from the position and vice president of the Parliament, to provide the missing 50 million kuna for the complete equipment of Bračak Hospital. It's for all the equipment. That's still missing. I just want to draw the same attention. I know that in the program of modernization of Croatian railways and direction with the largest number of passengers transported in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Zaprešić-Zabok railway line with its arms. The former state, the former governments every five years promised to enter the electricity and modernisation programme. Now the program is put together. I have not seen it but I trust colleagues who have been in the executive power so far that it is a quality solution and I just expect that through the budget we all read together that this programme will be realized because, in this era of energy collection, it will make life easier for our citizens, and then I think it is primarily a orientation towards rail transport, and it is also a turning towards environmental awareness and transport. I thank you again for your attention. I can be tough, I can be contentious, but I didn't mean it, and thank you for being quiet. I think, hopefully, it will also be a practice in other our discussions to respect, to hear from each other and then to return to our replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u264	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A lot has already been said about, especially from the opposition's point of view on the character of this program. It's been warned of a whole series of things and I won't repeat them unless I mean summed up. So since yesterday, he's been warned of a popular law as we call it the Government Act to be a matter of wrong terms. Not to mention real, real funds to be accessed. So it's all quite like one Copy, Paste. A lot has already been said about what this entire program is bringing and what does not explain but points out more in the illustrations. But before and because of that, I actually expected more from the gentleman, the Prime Minister, to say and warn of what is important to what is missing from this programme, and that is the coordinate system from which something is going to be carried out. And of course Mr. Prime Minister actually started with something that I thought would go on but then he gave up. He said at one point the following, and that is that the whole program can be reduced to two words. He probably meant the key words and I support him in that. But those two words that he mentioned, they lack a third, so neither do they stand. He said that it can be reduced to security and that it can be reduced to reliability. He didn't mention development and development because from all this that goes on, it's just not there, and it's not because it's not a well-founded program, and then neither can reliability nor security be performed. That safety cannot be carried out best can be explained by the fact that he spoke exclusively of national security. He did not talk about much more important security factors because this issue of security has been resolved for a long time. He wasn't talking about social security. He wasn't talking about legal certainty. He wasn't talking about economic security. He actually reduced the concept of security to national security, and the concept of reliability didn't develop at all because in order to explain the concept of reliability should be caught in conflict with what is important and that means with persuasion, with political persuasion. It should be addressed with issues such as corruption, such as the threat of telling all of us who are obvious from the system, who is losing control where, starting with the services that film each other to social security, we have very much to worry about and to be at the level to say these problems by taking this very seriously. So security remains empty. There's no confidence because it wasn't done, and the development wasn't even mentioned. The development is not even mentioned because in order for development to occur, some solid parameters must be set out from which it will be performed to say the whole of it to be called the philosophy of government policy. She's been in some other alternating programs for days. For example, regionalisation, i.e. acceptance of regional development, has been discussed. And then it was said, "That's yes, that's because it's industrialization." That's because it's a decentralisation of funds. That's because it's this or that. So then it's said that, it's because it's industrialization, it's because it's decentralisation of funds, it's because it's this or that. It has been said in some programmes other than and alternative to what it means to develop the village, and it has been said that the issue of social assistance should be separated from the issue of economic policy in the country and development, production in the country, etc. etc. There are no categories in this program. That program is a bargaining program. It is a program that is in some elements and below the level of the programme that had HDZ, which is therefore a programme that is primarily a clientelistic programme. I'm an opponent, and I don't like it when the media abuses terms, so when they say political trade or when they say someone's fighting for a chair, I don't like it, and I'd never call it that. But I'm not blind and the public can't be blind without seeing that clientelism is something much more serious than all that, because it's not just a question so-called. The chair and the so-called chair. trade rather than it's a question of giving in to the idea of development so as to say ideas of mutual interest. The government's tendency to do so has been confirmed by this government in a somewhat modified composition that has now been proposed over and over again, in recent months of its term of office. I don't know if, perhaps, we should remind the public and it's not answered, although it's been asked on several occasions to get the right data, how it's happened in the last few months that he's been employed somewhere between three and five thousand new people in the ministry. I don't belong to critics who will say because we have more ministries that we have greater bureaucracy that's not true at all. Bureaucracies do not depend on the number of ministries but rather on the efficiency and ability of them to perform their function, and how much I know from one example of my own, which is that in that ministry, the culture ministry would do well to have 50 less, and 20 new ones that could work and now only there, as far as I can hear, about 120 new ones in the last two months. So we have this phenomenon, we have this phenomenon that it is spreading and dispersing political dependence on structures that are going to enter the ambience of political decision-making, in... ambiences, and it's actually logical that no particular development can be made out of it. It is interesting to observe certain transformations of this document, so I will also quote one that at a rhetorical level explains many of the bases that can then be performed at individual level. The government also builds on the membership of coalition partners in European, democratic and folk traditions as well as liberal traditions. Exactly the man sees what it's like to say to grow the volume of the program with so to say the expansion of the coalition that the government needed to draw up these documents. I think what is not mentioned or is not properly mentioned and that there are no instruments to fight corruption, that is actually parallel to the way it is based on me to say the whole policy. It is therefore based on the clientalist division of power, it is based on the redistribution of interest from the ministry towards parties within the party, within parties to individuals, by spreading that so I say to the state apparatus by not responding to anti-corruption public procedures, by not responding to what we are therefore familiar with the elements where we are criticised and by Europe. That's why I can't accept this program. He doesn't have a single word about how we, as a small country, are going to face the processes of globalisation in which we need to confirm our identity, how we are going to mate with education, where we are, which are therefore obstacles to doing something. More recently, it was said that we should follow examples of, say, Finland or, say, Ireland, so that when there was one of the most important Irish politicians here, which is one of the creators of the so-called. Irish wonders if there are, he said that everyone should follow their own examples. The difference between Ireland and us or you is probably that when we started with our sudden development then we had a very large, we had two happy circumstances. A very large number of highly educated people and we had an excellent legislative solution, there was no corruption. What's in it for us? Where we've located the problems that we're going to fight as a government to solve, to qualify ourselves for ever greater challenges, for an ever-increasing match, for competence with telling those who know very well and who come to us to say so as external clients, or as external owners of what becomes clients here. We do this way of doing a provincial oligarchy within which party leadership of those, of course I'm talking about power here, will probably be satisfied, but in which no questions will be answered in which we won't be able to ask the parameters of actual struggle and therefore I am very pessimistic. I am not pessimistic on this or that small segment, perhaps some ministry will do better someone worse, I am pessimistic at this point in general, which is that this programme does not come from the perception of the real problems of Croatia, that it does not locate them and that it does not give an alternative to their resolution in a unique political momentum that has its own economic side, in which it does not only taxively list wishes but also to say the way in which these wishes will be satisfied and which has its clear political alternative and political responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u266	Thank you. Correction of the alleged, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is an incorrect assumption that, as you said before the end of the term, the past government had hired between 3 and 5 thousand new people in the ministry. That would mean that one ministry is the least employed somewhere on average by 500 new people. Not only is it incorrect, so it's flat-out, so it's a piece of information that has nothing to do with the truth. The second thing you said at the Ministry of Culture is that 120 new people have been hired in the last two months. Well, you've been in that building, that building can't even fit a new 120 people, let alone get a job. And thirdly, this program is not based on clientalism. What was based on clientalism was since 3 January 2000 when the six-way coalition formed a special department in which party representatives agreed which staff would sit in which place. From this program everything is clear and transparent what will be realized, what are people, and people are ahead of us. So there is no parallel authority or clientalism as it was in your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u268	Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, distinguished MPs, the prime minister is obviously missing, the respected candidate, respected candidates of the Croatian government. Health care is an interesting topic and by reading the chapter of health, of course by reading on two or more occasions the entire government programme, I had a mixed feeling, similar to my colleague Josipovic. I especially like the first page of health care, basic settings. It is essentially proof of what I have been saying in the last three, four years that the current health administration has not made a single shift in both economic, legislative, and professional terms. Very critical and brilliantly written, I thank you. I quote: "Step, transfer from the state budget under Article 67. The Health Insurance Act intended for the function of the health system shall not be paid at the position of the HZZO, but at the position of the Ministry of Health, and shall be used for investments and other purposes. This is why the health care funds are constantly missing.", quote completed. And that is why in June of last year was the biggest debt in healthcare since 1999 which clearly implies the internal debt of the Croatian state. However, by continuing to read, by continuing implementing measures, feelings are changing, I have become definitely disappointed because basically implementing measures become only the correcting of mistakes, the correcting of injustices done over the past few years. As Mrs Škulić has already pointed out, the last four years of health administrations have been characterised by the reduction of acquired rights, and on the other hand by the introduction of new charges. Of course, I fully welcome, for example, the first orderly and transparently, quote, to conduct a neat and transparent transfer of funds under Article 67. Insurance laws. I stress, he says to conduct neatly and transparently. If I were bad, and I'm not bad, then I could say that so far it's done messyly or untransparently or if we say transparently transfer to visiblely messy and invisible. I absolutely support, for example, that decentralised funds are used only for decentralisation, but that corrects the injustices believe or not from June of this year, in June 2007, where decentralised funds are given to lose funds. I support the abolition of the administrative fee because there is a right to the injustice of July 2005. I support the reorganisation of the pharmacy. I'm glad to mention Zabok and Koprivnica, the two hospitals we've been harassed for the past four years, and now you've put her in your government as the only two visual hospitals and I thank you for that. In short, we've been doing nothing but correcting injustices, mistakes, experiments for the past four years. Maybe it would have been better if we hadn't done them. I personally think that indulging is the worst thing, but sometimes it's also better to make up for mistakes. On the other hand, why was I disappointed and why was I disappointed? Because health care is a complete lack of vision of the development of the health system at all three levels, at the local level of the Republic of Croatia, the Alps Adria region, the southern, central Europe, the European Union and the United Nations. Let's go global. First of the United Nations and the World Health Organization. The Mandator said great, we entered the Security Council. We've actually entered the world's government. It's an excellent introduction, but there's not one word about the Millennium Goals of the United Nations. There is not a single word about the Millennium Goals, and 30% of the Millennium Goals of Honorable Representatives, distinguished representatives are all about health care. Each third objective speaks of the health, health of young people, the health of the elderly. About young people, the chapter of youth is very well written. Apparently, he's a fellow candidate for the Minister, Mr. Professor. The coaster led this way and the part about young people was made, but there is not a single word about the health of older people, and only one thing besides clear handballs, football we are at the top of the world of 182 countries of world health, and that is by... The older population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 17% of Croatian citizens are over 65 years old. 2030. every third Croat, I won't be then, will be over 65 years old, and 2050 each, pardon third, and 2035 every fourth Croat. Not a word about the health of the elderly. I've read the government on many occasions, so I'm definitely saying. We're all old yesterday. We're one day and 12 hours old. Aging is an inevitable, lasting and unstoppable process, but age is not a disease and therefore I ask nicely to introduce the health program into the program the health of older people. There is no fellow Milinovic to whom it will obviously not be a simple task. Europe. I have completed the Millennium Goals of the United Nations. Europe, Action Plan, IHIndication 2005 Not a word. Not a single one. In the past, it is said in 2007 that unpapered health will be created. It doesn't exist. Okay. We can't change the past. Then let's look into the future. Not a single word on the action plan of the European Union, the Council of Europe. Not a single word. Unfortunately and locally, the Republic of Croatia. A colleague, Kotromanovic, spoke of defenders, others, but I was surprised so I read from the youth several times, both health care and defenders. Not a word of counsel's health with PTSD, or I'll be corrected immediately. Only on page 107 is said to quote: "Friends of PTSD sufferers respecting scientific knowledge that members of the war veterans family will accumulate secondary traumatic damages.", quote completed. PTSD was... It was a key word for the last campaign and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ruling coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not a single word on counsel's health except on page 107, where you're talking about a defense attorney's PTSD. Not a word. And in the end, but no less important. I was Deputy Minister so I sat there, but I must be honest that today I am surprised by the way that there are no, or several members of the ruling, current coalitions quoted that, quote, "You probably didn't read it, you probably didn't read it carefully." I must be honest that I remained surprised by such a way of communication, so here I didn't think, but I will say since Mrs. Lukacic made it very clear, here Mrs. Lukacic writes in a 109-page program on several occasions disabled, says unfortunately on the page 101 people with special needs. I ask you to listen nicely to your colleague Lukačić and colleague Škulić, says people with disabilities, and children with developmental difficulties. This is a very important strategic document. And in the end, but no less important. Some say Pascal said that when I talk to strangers, but when I talk to our people they say that's what Ivo Andric said is good and easy to write, it's hard to cut short, and it's even harder to spend. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u270	Thank you. Six rectifications of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u271	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand what you're talking about, but I understand what you're talking about. So you are fighting for more health in Croatia and I understand that and I support it. However, what would I correct in your speech? A lot, I'll choose two very important things. One of them is that you said that over four years we didn't bring anything between us or on the legal basis. In the past four years, we've passed the Patients' Rights Act, so don't say it's irrelevant. We have brought amendments and additions to the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act. And we passed the Quality of Health Care Act. So, I'm sorry, these are the crucial laws that are just the prerequisite of what you're talking about. On the other hand, when you talk about the health of the elderly population and when you have concluded right, they are not patients, so if they are not patients and they do not need health care, the patients, just a little bit, you said they are not patients. But, no, I'm not wrong, I know what I'm saying, but through the reform of primary health care through home treatment, so you've just secured people older. So they don't get sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u272	Thank you very much. Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I hope that according to Article 209 I can say that definitely all our citizens were they healthy so were citizens, were patients demanding and needed...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u274	It's not a replica or correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u275	It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u276	Dear Representative, Vice President of the House Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u277	Dear Mr. Vice President! A colleague said they were attacked by a hospital in Zabok and a hospital in Koprivnica. Falsely because the project of the hospital in Koprivnica has just finished and financed the completion of this government, and the hospital in Zabok is a HDZ project and was built precisely during this government and provided equipment and will now be opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u278	And distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague incorrectly said, first he incorrectly informed us that he had read this program very carefully, so that only on page 107 did he find anything on those who had PTSD. If you had done so carefully, you would have found on page 97, on page 96 and 97, what applies to defenders, including among them and of course those families of those who have suffered from PTSD and improvement and all that will be done, programs that are included and including them. Therefore, you certainly did not read carefully, and you incorrectly informed the public that they were not mentioned at all. Same as about young people and old people. Read the careful program and then talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u280	And respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u281	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! I will correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Ranka who said that nothing was planned in the programme to help Croatian defenders treated by PTSD. If he had followed the work of the Croatian government in the past term, he would have known that the embarrassing test of the MP2 was abolished, which extended and defamed Croatian defenders were treated by PTSD, that all of the tests had to be accessed and that further acquisition of the right was done, that it was extended for a year to achieve disability under the PTSD, that the mayoral centres for assistance to Croatian defenders treated by PTSD were established and that a number of new disability requirements were submitted from this aspect and that these applications were submitted for processing in order to obtain their rights in view of the suffering and disease on the battlefield. These are all aspects that say that Croatian defenders were killed in the Homeland War by mental problems actually treated and taken care of in this form through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and through the solutions that were given through assistance in the centres of County to help those who are being treated by PTSD.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u282	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u283	According to Article 209, it was clearly not an correction to the incorrect assumption. I'm a doctor, Croatian defender in '91, not '95, not '97. A lot of my friends were up there last night. My colleague Djakic, of course, has contacts with Croatian defenders, and that is with the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u284	It's worth it. My colleagues and colleagues! Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u285	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I am correcting the incorrect assumption that my colleague Ostojic has said that nothing has been done in the past four years. My colleague Bagarić said clearly in this legislative part, but I would certainly like to remind you of the capital investments mentioned by the hospital in Koprivnica and others. But it must also be mentioned that national preventive programmes have also been introduced. National and epidemiological programs, expensive medicines and others. The shifts in this section, surely there are still a lot of work to be done and this is in these basic settings, and it is stated that the improvement of the system should continue. And that's what our future government will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u286	And finally a respected representative, Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u287	I'm sorry that my colleague doctor from Rebra, I come from the carlovic hospital, forgets that the previous government, your government has brought in a project to build a rib without a funding plan. The previous government, led by Dr. Sanader, completed the project and was the largest investment in Croatian healthcare since the independent Republic of Croatia. So, I'm sorry that you're forgetting and saying that there was no investment in health care. You should know that. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u288	Comrade Ostojić! Don't, because you will again, third time you enter off the side. ... Let's see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u289	I really... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u290	Your Honor, Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u291	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, candidates for ministers! I will talk about education and what is written especially in the context of the situation in which Croatia has 7.5% university, 11.5% highly educated people. And I'm glad to quote here the pre-election program of Labourist Blaire who said there are three points of education, education and education. For us these three points are even more valuable as a kind of imperative, and I think only education can save us. Secondly, it is not my place to talk about the HDZ programme, but given that we have come to the agenda and this, I see at least two backs in this government programme or coalition agreement. One backdrop is from comparative reading in what was in the government's 2003 programme. The second is the backdrop of this coalition agreement in relation to what was in the HDZ programme, so it is a double reduction that brings me into a kind of coldness, not just a confusion of what will happen to education if we cannot agree with coalition partners on a certain minimum to which it should rest. Similarly, aspirations for the education system are much less than they were in 2003. In 2003, we promised to introduce European standards into education. Now we have come only to be the most competitive nation in education by 2010, but this bite seems too big to me, because I remind you, Mr. Minister knows that, we are still working three shifts throughout a number of schools and in a whole series of countries, and even the transitional end of the 1960s, work in schools is almost reduced to one-way work. So I think we need a lot of effort. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to make certain remarks, criticalally, of course, in the best sense, because it seems to me that education is of this crucial importance that we have to solve it together and it would be optimal if we could at least reach a consensus around the minimum of standards. In the system, therefore, the Prime Minister, or Mr. Prime Minister, spoke of reliability. It seems to me that, and I agree with my colleague Vujic that this concept has remained completely undefined but if we take collokual use of that concept then it seems to me that reliability is something that guarantees, which causes trust and something that has a basis in previous work. I would therefore prefer to read the government's programme from a kind of report on the government's work, of course critical and self-critical. And it seems to me that, in the past term of the government's education system, there have been too many gaps to expect any reliability in the future, the more the coalition agreement cites some elements that seemed to be crucial today in 2007, which seemed equally crucial in the government's 2003 programme. Only their repetition is proof that these crucial elements of the 2003-2007 government programme have not been completed. If we focus on what has been done so far, let's say that there have been three major and strategic steps in the education programme. One was a reform of the system of education, so primary and secondary or modern language by saying compulsory and secondary, the other was a Bologna process and the third was certainly a programme or a set of programs on science and technology. By our court, therefore, there has been a lot of wandering and uncertainty in my court, as we have warned in cooperation with the ministry of course since the beginning of 2005 in order to reach the position we are in today's case at the end of 2006. So instead of the catalogue of knowledge and skills, instead of HNOS, we finally came to the curriculative reform of education and I hope that we will stand on it in all its modernity and breadth whatever that means. Secondly, we had a situation with the material position of teachers and it was also one of the crucial topics in the Government's 2003 programme to make a year and something after the government's appearance, so those who directly work with children and those who are actually the main holders of the educational process burn 17% below the average of personal income in the country and are actually all highly educated people. Then a strike took place, after the strike contracts were signed whose realisation or improvement of the teacher's material position fell only in this term. Let me remind you, since 1.8, teachers have therefore felt this improvement in their material position by 80, 87, possibly 90 kuna per month in primary and secondary education. And by the way, I would like to draw attention to the problem that is constantly being managed in school and, of course, the Croatian Parliament is also responsible and the most responsible is the ruling set. Regardless of all the declarations on the crucial importance of the knowledge and education society in this society, the education budget has grown slower than the state budget. And I am therefore particularly pleased with that element in the coalition agreement that says that the education budget will grow 10% to 15% annually and I am sincerely looking forward to it. Unfortunately, it wasn't the case so far. Third, one of the time, financial and human resources most efficient way of education is lifelong learning, "life long learning" or at the level of European projects "Integrated life long learning program". After we brought a whole series of messages from Brussels on European lifelong learning programmes, it was in fact that a procedure of 40 years of age-old adult education was introduced into the law. The Agency for Adult Education has also been formed instead of a lifelong learning agency which has led Croatia to lose potential accreditation for competition in European projects and European means of lifelong learning as well as for what should have been generated, namely for the use of European funds. I am particularly pleased with the element that Ćosic warned about, which is that in the past period we have made a marked and unenviable progress in the participation in the European area of science "European Research Area" and that we have actively joined the framework programme, the 6th Framework Programme 7. However, we have never found out what financial benefits are from this year after year and how much we have received or withdrawn, as European funds are said in relation to the level of membership. First year of benefits, and second year later. That's not what I'm saying to provoke the question right now. But I am saying out of a clear regret that this fact itself has not been used to intensify and concentrate financial resources to finance national scientific research projects and that, in the past period, at least two mistakes have been made by my court in the approval of scientific research projects. On the one hand, a slightly smaller percentage of projects has been approved than we used to do, but in view of our scientific population, there is still a huge amount of 1700 projects. A whole series of projects have received 30 to 50% of the funds requested to prevent people involved in the implementation of projects from carrying out basic project tasks. So the scientific research means have come down much more to the means of supplying equipment and almost in certain cases for social assistance than for serious scientific research. With this approach, we cannot build the foundations of new technology and cannot build a society of knowledge. The Foundation for Science and Higher Education is the institution that brings us closer to the developed institutions of only organised scientists financed by the state from budgets such as the National Science Foundation or Deutsche... Oh, I'm not saying that out of any self-gratitude in 2003, in two and a half years, about 130 and a few million came into that foundation from the State budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Lastly, in this term, about 5 million went to the foundation. And perhaps just two other suggestions, Mr. Vice President, would be pleased to put the early romantic program of Croatian language promotions and research into the program and intensive assistance of foreign language learning without which there will be no international cooperation, and I also think it is necessary to include in this programme information literacy that you have done in the second chapter in order to be excellent if, therefore, to introduce into the programme what is the European practice of MST, Matt Science and Technology in order to improve what we call a knowledge society. I'm sorry, man gets a little carried away especially when he first speaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u292	Well, you're not the first time. As Minister of State, you spoke a long time ago. Not that long ago, yes. [[Intruder: But for the first time in this conference.]] Three corrections, two replicas. First respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague incorrectly, incorrectly stated that the budget for education in the past term has grown significantly slower than the rest of the budget... You should have looked at the structure of the budget in the last four years, so you would know that this part of the budget has grown the most and the fastest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing you said was that it didn't invest much and that it didn't fix much about three shifts, triple school work. That's not true. 188 new schools have been built over the past four years. So 188 new schools. These are concrete data from the work of the past government. And thirdly, I'd be glad that you took up a few years ago when you participated in the government's work that what was then the government in which you participated signed through a collective contract as an obligation for educational workers to honor it. Because since you did not respect the burden and weight of this disrespect, you have fallen on the burden of this government, which over a billion and 200 million kunas had to pay for the costs and compensation of those educators to which it had an obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u294	And the esteemed representative Nevio Šetić. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct certain incorrect allegations, or incorrect allegations, because since education is very complex and there are many people in Mr. Flegga who have very many incorrect allegations. This quote, that's one, I can't believe Mr. Flego wasn't informed when he said that the education budget grew slower than the state budget. On the contrary, this is a well-known fact and thanks to the government's definition of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has grown from some 7 billion and slightly more to nearly 11 billion in this period. We should be proud of the government's orientation. And secondly, I can't believe we're also aware that Croatia doesn't have a modern national corridor in primary and secondary schools, that the efforts of this ministry are not a step forward. And it's not just some catalogue of knowledge or I don't know what it is, but it's an organized job where our student is at the centre of attention today. Where today's teacher is the one who leads and develops this process. Where the school is the service of society in the community where it is and that is the effort of many experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u296	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a really hard fellow Flego to correct a series of inaccuracies you said about education. Analyzing the ministry's work in the past term, you obviously did not read well and saw that the budget grew 3 billion for education. That there were 188 new school buildings built. That they're employees of professional associates. That they've been improved by legal regulations. That a Croatian national educational standard was introduced. And we're on the verge of adopting a pedagogical standard in schools. It is a major shift from the former government to extend the work in education in this term. The most important thing in education was right in the term of office of this government. And I think it's unfair to bring this kind of untrue out here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u298	The first replica of the respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u299	My colleague Flego, I'm not going to correct the wrong allegations. I'm going to replicate it so you can replicate it for me, you know. You can't do this. No, no. [[The intruders don't understand.]] We need to help our colleagues. ... I'm begging you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I beg you, unlike my colleagues on the other side of the hall, I fully agree with you. [[The intruders don't understand.]] There are always two truths in this hall. Two variants. When this country enters the European Union we will be a country with the highest percentage of illiterate and highest percentage of people with only primary school or less. In this country, every third citizen has a primary school or not. So you're absolutely right no matter what we hear from the other side. My remark on your exposure is going in the next direction, that at least here we should talk a lot more about education in the function of economic development. Europe came up with a Lisbon strategy 8 years ago with only one goal, to increase the competitiveness of Europe and the European economy, and we must also underline, repeat and perfect it in each of our programmes, and that is the only thing missing. Talking about reform because of reform makes no sense. We need our programmes to rely on the needs of the teaching economy, in high schools, higher schools. We must also put our research projects into priority and thus finance them, primarily what the Croatian economy needs and then in category B of that second or category C, all countries do. We need to rely on our economy's needs for registration policy. We also need to start thinking about what to do with those million and a half people who have only elementary school or less. Instead of importing labor, I guess one part of those people can at least train younger ones to build builders and other occupations in which we are... Here's the segment missing from your presentation. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u300	Replication response, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u301	I agree very much with you, except I have one great difficulty. In fact, look, it's very difficult to do all this together and plan. If at the end of the term, you leave a debt of EUR 67 million agreed, which was literally €220 million and then one other government comes and pays no more than 67 million kuna or €220 million but grows to billions and €200 million in four years with interest and additional court costs. And in that situation on the other hand, it's very difficult to act. And secondly, I think education, so European practice knows different forms of stimulating education for technological development, and now I've mentioned it in the end. For ten years, we have not been able to get close to this, and in our situation it would be much more appropriate for education not to focus on the current needs of the labour market than to be a labour market locomotive and a huge innovator in technological processes. Here's how much I'd like to rephrase to your remark that I thank you for, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u302	And respected representative Ivo Josipovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u303	My colleague, Flego, has widely criticised the government's education programme, but he's missed something that might be considered marginal, but as I've pointed out more than once, I have to do it today. It's about the Music Academy. The music academy is a specific form, one specific institution of higher education that Croatia does not have in its shame. I know our minister said, the first steps have been taken, unfortunately they are slow and insufficient if at such a pace the Music Academy continues to build, I'm afraid my grandchildren won't study at it. Otherwise, when I took the word, I think about the subject, the music is also neglected in the culture program, there is no word of music in the culture programme, only the syntagma of music-smart activity is used, and I think it's in a tight relationship and in relation to the music academy, and I hope that all artistic disciplines will equalize that there will be no music as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u304	Dear Representative Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, ladies and gentlemen of candidates for members of the Croatian Government, at least those remaining in the Chamber, let me say in a few sentences what I think about the coalition programme that we have today and what we think about the proposed proposal of the Croatian Government candidate who are here today. Yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed a law that defines a framework within which a new Croatian government will act. I believe that the law indicated, and today I am sure, that it was more about meeting certain affinities within the coalition partners than about the new Croatian government being as effective as possible in implementing its programme. With such a law that we adopted yesterday, we have brought into an unfortunate position of prime minister who today proposes to the government which is one of the most numerous in Europe, especially among the countries of the size of Croatia. We will have a government with a record number of vice presidents, we will have a government that will have two more members than the Government of a large country such as Germany, which is even 15 times larger by population than Croatia. This is not a good start especially because the prime minister is entering a new mandate with a completely different approach. Last time, it reduces the government and says such a government will be cheaper and more efficient, and today it proposes to the government that is much larger, increases its number of members and thus sends the wrong message to Croatian citizens who expect not a large, massive government, but expect an effective government and a reduction in the administration. I also want to say something about the programme that we got on the table today, namely, I was preparing myself on the basis of a programme that was proposed by HSS, HSLS and HDZ because we didn't have this in front of us yesterday, and I expected that it was announced by the media that the first such document to be discussed for more than a month, which they sent out means through the media they were sending information about that it was well prepared and I expected a lot more from him. I must admit that I did not stay impressed by the program because in a large part of the document there is no word on any projects, there is no word on any deadlines, I do not say in the whole document, but use the expressions of the type we will increase investment in, we will implement the programmes, we will provide support for, without any ideas and without any means in which these objectives will be implemented. Some chapters have yet to mention that some strategies will be produced or reproduced depending on the chapter in question. The agreement was made so that it seems to me that he is actually a set of beautiful desires against which we can hardly have something against here, but the problem is in people, people are strength. As I believe that the new government is nothing more than a number of increased old government and by structure and by people, nothing can convince me of the fulfillment of these beautiful desires. We have an agreement, for example. The roads we were supposed to be driving a long time ago. For example, the Zagreb-Dubrovnik highway. We have a macroeconomic policy and an administration that should please entrepreneurship. We have an efficient education system and so on with Europe. We've had it all in the programs and the former government so far, but unfortunately... I'm asking you not to shut me down. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I think the agreement lacks something that guarantees the development of our country. There is no vision of how it will develop economically. The only exact budget item in the agreement is 6 billion kuna for projects predicting development and investment in the village. Although I think it is necessary to invest in our village and agriculture, I think that the basis of our economic growth should be investment in education and investment in entrepreneurship and employment, and my biggest disappointment lies in this because there are only a few pages on the agenda of education without any concrete projects. There are only a few pages on the employment of young people and the creation of a perspective for young people in Croatia. As tourism was given a special ministry, I thought I'd see in the agreement how much we're going to invest in certain programmes in tourism, that we're going to set up a special agency to help people who decide to deal with tourism, but there I only saw that we're going to make a strategy for Croatian tourism that, as I know for sure, there are already several made, that we want new beds and a new number of beds in hotels at sea and on land that are likely to come out of themselves. In the end, I think the HDZ in this agreement and the assembly of the new government has passed its campaign slogan on, but in the same way as before. The government is the same, and unfortunately I believe nothing will be more successful than the past. Coalition partners seem to have forgotten all those affairs that have been going on for the past four years and entering that government are giving cover for what happened, as if there were no Bechtel, Brodosplit,... , abbey hotels, sunny Hvar, buying dictionaries at local levels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I do not believe that an identical government that has been successful in the past term, regardless of any programme, can be successful in the new mandate, although because of Croatian voters I want it to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u306	Thank you. Two corrections. Dear Representative Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u307	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague from the SDP today who has already said that they don't know perhaps the best math, so just correcting an incorrect quote to an esteemed colleague. This isn't a record number of ministries. The government, drawn up by the 2000 coalition, had if I were not mistaken by 19 ministries and 21 ministers. So 21 is greater than 15, like 56 is less than 66. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u308	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u309	Article 209. The esteemed representative Škoro very likely corrected me, that is, wrongly corrected me. It was not a correction to an incorrect quote, because I did not say it was a record government in Croatia. I said it was a record government by the number of vice presidents in Europe, in the size of countries such as Croatia, and that Germany has 2 ministries less than the Croatian government has.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u310	It's like a Gauss curve. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said the government has no vision of development for the next term of office. There's a program in front of you that you could read. That is, a vision of development, and the concrete things that you've been saying that they're not here will be adopted into the budget. So a concrete programme and projects that will apply to all ministries, and then you will know exactly the realization of this vision. And another thing. You said we forgot the affairs. We haven't forgotten the affair. I'll only remind you of two. Let's say Victor Lenac, where hundreds of millions of dollars went into private pockets and say the Excelsior Hotel, where a hotel was stolen.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u312	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u313	I'd say colleagues again, according to Article 209. He's got me wrong. I didn't think HDZ had forgotten the affairs. I said their coalition partners forgot.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u314	Forgetting is a very relative thing. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like the success of the future government to ensure that this Croatian society is more just and more security and stability for each member, and when it comes to the programme we are discussing today, this is the political act of the Prime Minister with whom he came before us and is seeking a term of four years to lead the state to the Republic of Croatia for the benefit of the citizens. The government’s obligations are laid down in Article 112. The Constitution. Is this document that we got yesterday, which we couldn't seriously check, even read worth being accepted like this? Is this our responsibility to the citizens who made a million and six hundred thousand elections? Is it our responsibility to give trust within one day or 12 hours, and after four years, what are we going to ask the government what she has done here? Where are the quantifications with which the government came before us? How much safer will plants live in four years? How many standards will it raise, how many unemployed will be less and how many higher pensions will there be, how many new schools, new kindergartens, and how many new academic citizens? How much will we strengthen Croatia's economy so that we live better than we get into Europe? That was the mission of this House to evaluate today. Unfortunately, all I have to say about this program is this. The HDZ, therefore, which has played an important role in Croatian society since the 1990s, has two strategic programmes to date, two strategic documents on which it is based all 17 years of politics. It's the first one, the conversion and privatisation of '91. A year. The second is a '93 stabilisation program. A year. What is the task of this program? To protect the effects of conversion and privatisation and stabilisation programs. To protect those who have become rich from these programs. There's no stepping back. There is no guarantee that those who have difficulty living today will live better. There's no guarantee like that. He is much less precise, said his colleague Vujic, much less precise and much less ambitious than the government's programme of this, these governments actually HDZ. Today, however, he has coalition partners. It is much less ambitious and not more precise than the 2003 programme. At least then we had a promise to cut the VAT from 22% to 18% or 20%. What does the government promise us today? That in four years, it'll be better. Imagine the situation and I've copied it from a program this government has proposed to the Parliament and delivered. Let's just say for one assessment of today's situation. The state of state administration in the Republic of Croatia does not satisfy and contributes to the possible extent of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. So this is the state of affairs to stop the development of the Republic of Croatia. And what does the government say about this state administration for the next four years? Nothing. Nothing, she kept her organizational form, the state administration's office. And all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, even those who are just born, are asked by the authority to provide them with something, a birth certificate, an entry into the wombs of books born to a building permit, the right to work and to establish an enterprise or vice versa. And a list of voters, a good fellow. To get into the voters' list. What does the government tell us about that? I'm going to leave the judiciary now, given that the judiciary is a closed whole and that's part of the project, and it's still going to take a while, so when one cycle is over, then it's just going to change. So the government is not talking about national interests that are threatened by the current situation. In this program she doesn't say that. It does not say that corruption on such an take-off in Croatian society that the European Commission has said, we will not negotiate on Chapter XXIII. until you figure out what serious situation you're in. So you can't join the European Union with so much corruption in your society, in your system. You live with corruption. What did the prime minister or candidate or the prime minister in the introduction tell us about? Well, nothing. Well, he can't say anything about it. Why can't he talk? Because all the affairs remain unsolved and are closed to new affairs. ... Well, no, I'm not telling you or them, I want to tell the citizens, because I here believe that I came by their power of attorney and not by the will of the SDP, or the HDZ, or the president, or the Vice President of the Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At the will of the citizens. So, if we do not agree in Croatia, we agree that by the cliché that was created through the system of conversion and privatisation and that he took away, let him remain and build on it our social sensitivity, this democracy will be called the "tycoon" type democracy or "tycoon democracy". And long ago, all the theorists and practitioners have said and shown that the democratic system only works if all the elements of this system work. And we have our friends from Europe who tell us, the government doesn't work, the trom is inefficient, politically dependent. Politically dependent, therefore, that's correct. In the past system, we had several times to order the state administration to withdraw the solution. Even on the radio. Pull the solution, you can't determine taxes, like Croatian TV. As a second-degree body, second-degree body. Is that what we're talking about in these programs? We're not talking. Unfortunately, therefore, the entire programme written and delivered in the opening speech of the prime minister is at the level of rhetoric. Not at the level of logical and established national interests. Therefore, I cannot expect that a government that is complex in one night for the purpose of ensuring the continued authorities will be responsible for dealing with the fundamental problems of this society: corruption, development, justice, stability and the security of citizens. If the mandater has no respect for this House to be here all day and he asks us to vote in favour of him, he would have to at least have a responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and defend every part of his programme, as we would say in four years' time, the prime minister corrected it, it was not written in his speech, but he said in an opening speech that he would do so. We won't be able to, unfortunately not just us, but neither can the citizens. Even when they can be seduced, citizens are not allowed, but the responsibility of those with greater power has been increased. That is why I repeat, nothing new in HDZ politics or the mandate of the future government. I'm sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u316	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Leko said that today's term of office of the former government is that it is about the rise of corruption as he so vividly expressed us. So you see a colleague, I will only quote one fact that Trasparency International just last year in 11th place just before the elections for parliament made the biggest and most positive decision for the Republic of Croatia in the fight against corruption. At the time of your term of office only at the beginning of your term of office in the first year because then you had trust that was not supported by anything, but they said here came a new power. You had a score for corruption 3.9. The following years, that grade fell, came to 3.4 in your term. In the last year of Sanader's government's term of office, the assessment came to 4.1. So, the most positive grade. Second, you forgot that in your term of office the ministers signed contracts with their own companies amounting to hundreds of millions of kunas. You forgot that only at the end of your term did you pass the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. You forgot that you decapitated the secret services that were two years old and without the leaders, couldn't work, that the BOOK couldn't work. It was only during the HDZ mandate that the government strengthened itself and created assumptions to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u318	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Wait a minute. Dear Representative Joseph Leko is in violation of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u319	... and you yourself and Agent Matušić have injured the Rules of Procedure, you are Articles 214 and 209 and you are colleagues Matušić only 209. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Namely, tolerateting under the firm to correct the incorrect allegations to throw out all frustration from counterpart Matušić is a violation of the rules of procedure. He didn't quote any points, not a word I said. But let it be to you. It's not a rescue for either of you or for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u320	I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure or the 204th or the 209th, and I don't know which other ones, but rather you hurt the Rules of Procedure. First of all, as a very experienced longtime parliamentary representative and my colleague, you know that you should first say which rule of procedure has been violated and you should specify that provision of the Rules of Procedure. Let's not go back to the old question of what an older chicken or some other creature is. ... Allowed self-help, this does not fall within the sphere of criminal law of respected colleagues or civil rights, it is not an institute. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If it's worth more and less, it's dialectic again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's something else again. And respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. What happened to you now? And I called you, and you haven't arrived yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u321	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, I have to correct the wrong quote of my colleague Lek who said that the Croatian Democratic Community only had two programmes. For example, one may have forgotten for him a meaningless programme, which is the creation of a Croatian state with all the help of the people and with great opposition from the SDP. Then here was a program, let's say, 93, to democratically replace the government that humiliated the defenders, which privatized the Ministry of Reconstruction, excuse me in 2003. Who humiliated the defenders, privatized the Ministry of Reconstruction, which did huge services to private companies such as Lenac, Europetrol and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u322	And finally, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague among other things said an incorrect allegation. I have to fix it because it seems very big. In fact, he said there are no letters in the Government programme, literally neither letters nor words about public administration, so I remind him of pages 87 to 89 which cover the very public administration, including 16 precisely mentioned points, and this was touched in the debate, so the process of depoliticalising the public administration and reforming the administrative trial according to European conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u324	And Boris Matkovic is a respected representative, the last correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u325	... Therefore, the incorrect allegations of the esteemed Mr. Lek and he refers to the Croatian Democratic Community programme, in fact, he said that this programme is an expression of the will of the prime minister. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Mr Leko, it is true that this is the Croatian Democratic Community programme in its part together with the coalition and it is true that this is a winning programme and that it is thus an expression of the will of citizens and voters. And it is also true that they have only confirmed the previous work of the government and it is primarily assessed in people and every human being, and so is the government's work. And you should know that very well, I mean. Therefore, respect the will of the people because the will of the people is the only true value. And just one last thing, I saw today from IDS, so to SDP, you'd all be moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u326	This doesn't belong any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u327	So you can all move on. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u328	This doesn't fall any further than we go on. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u329	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, listening to these latest corrections to incorrect allegations, it comes to me that "It will be the road of the Turks but the Turks will not be.". As long as the people of the coalition government we can talk about are legitimate, it's pre-government, it's the subject of conversation? What would you think you didn't give yourself God if all seventeen years of government had HDZ? So what would we people be talking about here today? But aside from that thin and bad argument of yours. I'd like to say something else. First, I want a government that will be elected tonight to wish for full success in the period during which they will do the job. This desire for success is very sincere, not because I would vote for this government, but because it will be a government that will make big decisions about the lives of people in this country. What's intriguing about the moments when it's projected for at least four years as long as it's supposed to take this government's mandate is actually the basics, premises and goals that it sets here. I regret to say that although the election campaign is behind us, even though it is time for the exaggeration of this or that kind behind us of the document that offers us to exhale first and foremost by the breath of not recognising the reality and the real problems we will face. This programme really does not deserve to be a government team programme more than I know of a document that the Government, whose government was a sponsor and which was produced and which is very solid and I would very much like to give it to all future ministers as a recommendation for their future action, their future work. First, it is a document drawn up by competent people and published under the term "Strategic Framework of the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2006-2013". I remind you that this document I praise was brought to the government's term of office seeking a continuation of trust. But it's just paper. I have been convinced on several occasions over the past few months that neither the ministers have read what the document says. What is really crucial to me that is being dropped in this programme and that is, in part, covered by this strategic framework? It is about specifics that represent essential values for the development of Croatian society in the years to come. It is about the values of social justice and the concept of social cohesion that modern Europe is talking about. This is, in fact, the central issue of the overall and political and professional debates that are currently taking place in the countries of the European Union. And not without the devil. And it's not by itself an argument that we should talk about it too. But it is an argument that in Croatia we have one of the lowest rates of what is called social capital. And it's about the trust that exists in society, the complete absence of faith in key institutions that need to be organised and helped organise social life in this country. It's not just a matter of integration, it's not a question of social benefits, it's not a question of giving this or that, to this or that group. But listening to this little larpurlatistic debate here where it seems like we're only talking so much that we're talking about and in which we're creating a reality that's different, I'm sorry about this little bit of dodging tone. But it's different from how people live in Croatia. That's what really worries. I don't know if it's known to be within 30 kilometers of here, just crossing the river Kupa, is one different Croatia. Do you know if anyone was in a town called the Court? In which people live without electricity, without electricity, they live in Croatia. We live in a country where, not only did it shine many shopping malls, we live in a country where children still go 10 or 15 kilometers to school, and we talk about a land of knowledge. And I wouldn't mention it if it were marginal groups, if it were the islands of misery. We have entire groups that are socially excluded and marginalized, which are not on occasion that don't feel like they have a chance to get out of the state they're in. I see it as a real problem of this country. My colleagues and colleagues who we used to be in executive power, you who are or will be our mandates have ended or will end. The question arises as to what will remain behind our mandates. Which we and any of Croatia will leave behind, and that is a far more important question than whether we have done it as left or right. In Austria, citizens will go well with both left and right because they have another kind of responsibility that I do not recognize in what we do. When I said that I wanted to succeed this government then that success I do not in any way mean as a success which is often understood by itself and here today we will be re-elections. It's not a guarantee that we were successful. It's not a guarantee. Elections can also be won, so-called. spin to doctors. And by creating, by fabricating, by inventing. You can certainly win the election. But what's going to be real success is the slightest shift that we're going to make people in this country live better. 80 years ago, the famous Croatian economist Bicanic wrote a book How Does the People Live? I don't feel like we refer to the reality we're in when we bring in documents like this. We paperically say I would try to define our goals, and the true concern for what is basic, on which is based a peaceful, tolerated society that can go forward remains for us in another plan. That's not going to happen in itself. This requires intervention and a very engaged intervention and a country that must create conditions for both autonomous structures and civil society and so on to be able to demonstrate precisely in the achievement of the fullness of these rights and the need to develop as a society. Finally, I want to say social development is much more than GDP growth, it is much more than mere statistics on open jobs. It means true happiness for people or a little more happiness for those who live in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u330	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u331	Thank you. Well, after a debate like this, I mean well-intentioned, the esteemed representative said that in Austria it would be all one thing for citizens after the left or right government. So I would remind him that everywhere in the European Community, all the left governments spend without cover, and when they owe the country or get into trouble, then they always go right and therefore lead to the re revitalisation of these countries, and so it was in 2003 in Croatia. So it is also known to the left that the left governments are wasteful, and that on interests and the economy, the standard is mainly returned by the right governments and they bring prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u332	Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u333	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed future ministers, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a vote on the government's trust. We have before us a document with a number of hints that is ambitiously called the Government Programme, and we have people who will implement it or how popular it is said in the slang a chair that was allegedly not much and negotiated, and I believe, according to the composition of the Government that is being offered to us. The programme also has custodians, however, it is clear that some ministers have a guardian, while I do not think of the vice-presidents of the government who are in charge of their resolutions, because they do not, according to the results of their work, would certainly not remain. But the prime minister has long chosen the role of guardians himself in the past term to those ministers who have shown themselves incompetent or whose role in certain affairs has not been cleared up to the end. And to try to describe what it was about, this custodyal and a little protective relationship came most to terms when one minister at the end, not at the beginning but at the end of the term, as an excuse for making a difficult failure, was fortunately the last in a series, took an inexperience. Now, at the beginning of the term of office, I can be taken as a relieved circumstance of inexperience, but the minister at the end of the term should not. And that after the prime minister had shown great patience before and only partially limited public appearances. If he had limited his entry into the woods and hunting trips would have been less of a consequence for some people in Croatia, I mean specifically the general who had to go to The Hague for that reason. Some ministers rotate, some are founded new ministries, junior partners the same term I heard from the prime minister have been given high functions, but although few real powers remain that lower duties have become fliers and bees, or as they are already called, those less than juniors. But one human solution for me is really special. I'll try to explain. The role of the Ministry of Defence was also known to be defined as civilian oversight of the Armed Forces and should be acknowledged that there is no better person for any kind of surveillance than the chairman of the Watch Committee of Brodoplita. This surveillance was first known internationally from Austria, and then it became recognizable to the Croatian public. It is a good fact that, let's say, the Government programme provides for the purchase of patrol ships for the Croatian Navy where supervision of the territorial sea is mentioned and protected by an ecological fishing belt. So the experience in this, therefore, from "Brodosplite" can be seen by analogous in buying or building these ships, and that's not bad at all, because then the ships were being sold and now they're being bought, so it would be a lot easier to negotiate when you were already in the position of those who sell, because you know the fines all those others had, the only problem would be if they were going through Cyprus and Graz because by then they won't be able to catch all the fish in ZERP that some of Europe say, so I don't say, but they say some of Europe will not apply. The Government programme also lists other priorities in the Head of the Armed Forces and the Defence System, which will be more space during the debate on the annual report on the state of the defence system. I would just like to point out that the role of the Armed Forces to assist civilian institutions in the country is well recognised through what is known as the so-called Armed Forces. non-combatant tasks in the event of fire, search and rescue, environmental disasters and therefore well-recognized as a priority for participation in international missions. Priorities in the acquisition of arms and military equipment will be more said when voting the budget when it is visible whether it is here, so I'm only talking about this part, the wish list or the real priorities. Because when everything becomes a priority, there's really no priority. So one project per branch of the Armed Forces is listed here, and this budget will show how feasible it is. It is no doubt that this summer has shown the need to strengthen the dedicated organised fire-season forces, so buying canaders and tractors and the problem of transport helicopters that have begun to be solved along with the existing M8 began to be resolved through the clearing debt. I find the missing part regarding the material status of members of the Armed Forces especially in those professions for which on the labour market they can get multiple salaries from those they have in the military has been a particular problem in the civilian part, and unlike some other institutions, it is difficult to compensate... for example, fighter pilots, IT and some other professions. It should be said that in previous years, the MORH has been treated as a less attractive ministry in alleged signs, less attractive than the media and has rarely been at the centre of the public interest, not saying it was but it was less than others and was less at the heart of the daily political bickering. But just today, when the new government voted, it went back to the headlines of the daily papers, so it could have been someone else, I don't know. The failures made by ministers, their co-workers, and happening to everyone in daily work in other ministries, are measured by more or less in a poor way of spending money. I would like to point out that the failure made in this system, regardless of who, may result in the most tragic consequences and then should not be subject to a superficial control of this system as the ships Split has been surfaced. This burden, therefore, is the burden of something being treated objectively perhaps not real responsibility, carried by all the former defence ministers standing up and I believe they were lying with such a thought. Let's say Mrs. Adlesic, who, according to her words, was offered to lead the resort. That burden wouldn't take over, which is normal. You can't be with that image. The opposition's weekend carries such a burden. Mr. Vukelic accepted it. The political responsibility test on the Brodosplit case has not passed, that this will continue to be called by political rivals from the public, it will be. That it will have a certain impact perhaps on the work of the Ministry of Defence probably will, and already, along with some other ministers, I am apostrophysing from others here the soft belly of the Government, but it is the choice of mandates, and to Mr. Vukelic, he is not, I really want a lot of happiness in the conduct of this responsible duty on the well-being of the Croatian Army, armed forces. That's what I really think. ... Indeed, indeed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've worked there with a lot of people, and I mean it. I would also like to express my regret that the government programme does not mention islands the way I think we should. The Department of the Islands remains part of the Ministry of the Sea, not going to the Ministry of Regional Development. I've been looking for islands, I've found them in four places. Although I don't think it's really the demarcation of two ministries. I don't even think it's a bad, worst possible solution because I think it's a demarcation between the two ministers. When they agreed then, here's something that went to regional development, and there's something left in the Ministry of the Sea. The sea is standing water, development is somewhat more dynamic, but good. I also want success in this ministry, because we also particularly care about it. Let's go back to the islands. So some priorities are listed as promotions. Will you just please stop time so I can finish. I don't have much yet. Like the improvement of the high-speed lines, the broadband Internet and, in general, is indicated, the improvement of life infrastructure within the Adriatic policy of orientation and the rest which will undoubtedly improve life on the islands, but in my view, there are no measures, even if this is the case with the relief for entrepreneurs and companies to be equated with competition on land because it is the task of the state and the need for even development of all parts of Croatia. I will not further spread my debate, I will not vote for the government's trust. It's about the government in more or less the same composition as before, and when I'm supposed to finish somehow, I'm going to use the lyrics from the Marijana Ban song, and it's called "The Ruzini Boat": "On the rise of the refrigeration of the frigid, and his team is getting there where it would be quieter, and it wouldn't laugh. The sea has chosen a path." This sea is the most common public pressure or sometimes international community, and the song ends I want to tell you that I see the end now that the waves are getting bigger and that it doesn't look like heaven to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u334	New genres of Parliament are being born. The poetry is on the agenda. And returned to Shime, or Minister Vukelic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u335	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. By reading this Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I refer to Article 214. ... MPs' word and statement that HSLS weekend is opposition, I mean totally inappropriate for this assembly... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u336	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u337	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected MPs. I'm the truth for the first time as a representative, but I've been here a lot of times in the Parliament, but I didn't really believe that these council sessions really talk this way. I'm going to look back here at my fellow MPs, I don't know what his name is, but what he said through these few words attacking ministers, I'm really surprised who voted for such a representative and how it's possible for such a man to be in the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u338	Francis, that's not a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u339	Because you can't talk like this. So I ask Mr. Representative not to insult the ministers, because this government is indeed in the past term, along with ministers who will be doing the best she could tomorrow, and that's why she got the trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u340	A poemr's injury or a Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u341	Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter But I really didn't see any. So the gentleman answered about the incorrect assumption, I didn't see which quote mine corrected. Maybe it's a people's correction, but it's not a quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u342	We'll hear a lot more from the wise. Honorable representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u343	Dear Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs, members and members of the future government. I'm going to talk about environmental protection today. Unfortunately, I have to note that there was very little word in the assembly today on this subject. Although many environmental protection is considered an irrelevant political issue, because we live in a country plagued by major social problems such as a huge number of unemployed and pensioners on the very edge of existence, the fact is that environmental protection is becoming increasingly and globally, but also a national issue every year. It is good, therefore, that this Programme of the Government has given environmental protection an important place, but what worries is who will implement this largely solid programme? In this term, the Government also left construction in the environmental protection portfolio, although environmental protection and construction are two sectors that are in constant conflict of interest in the nature of things. It is even more concerned that it is headed by the minister whose professional passion is construction, not environmental protection, and by which this ministry is ultimately recognizable in public. In addition, it is absurd in my opinion, and they have warned more and more frequently and often and have warned many times from representatives of associations, but also from the European Commission that the nature protection sector is located in the cultural portfolio. This refers to a very old-fashioned approach and environmental protection and nature protection aimed at preserving the existing state rather than pro-actively improving the existing state. This coalition therefore equates natural and cultural heritage and that is not excessively optimistic. Moreover, it is not clear from what the conclusion is drawn about the well-preserved environment of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the countries of the European Union, because the countries of the European Union have been working proactively for years to raise standards for environmental protection and, unfortunately, this is not the case with us. I therefore conclude that environmental protection in this programme is more so to convince the European Union that environmental protection is an important political issue for us, not because it really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u344	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Before I speak about the very proposal for a program that is ahead of us today, I would like to say something important. Mr. Prime Minister said the following in a dispute today over the election results for the pay phone. The HDZ has won the highest number of mandates and this has also given us the largest coalition strength. That's our added value. I admit I didn't understand that sentence at first. But then I remembered that added value is taxed. And I've been looking all afternoon for that VAT on added value, the tax will be paid. A little while looking at the government's bid I found that 18 candidates for members of the government, exactly 4 come from coalition added value, and that is indeed 22% indeed. So VAT will be paid in full. I hope that the programme promoters but also colleagues from the ruling ranks understand that we have an obligation from the opposition above all and then the right to express our thoughts, reflections or attitudes in the proposed programme and that they do not have to agree. That we don't have to think the same thing about the offered program, which doesn't have to be the reason for the struggle. It is natural for the ruling to point out that the best part of the programme is presented firstly. But it is also a natural right of opposition to warn about those parts of the program that are not good or perhaps what is not available in that proposal. In this debate, we can go back to history through replications and corrections. And that's not bad in itself, but for starters, it would be good to agree on how many years we'll be back in replicas and corrections in history. Is it just four, eight or maybe fourteen years to establish a historical balance? If we didn't act this way and if we didn't talk critically here today about this programme proposal, you would tell us, if there were serious problems, rightly, that you were against the program and you had the opportunity to warn us of something that was not in the program. And that's why, because of this obligation of mine, let me only warn about five or six points of the program, what I think should be remembered by those who wrote it. First, the programme provides for the harmonisation of electricity and gas prices with prices on the European and world markets. This alignment means that both the price of electricity and gas prices in Croatia will go up and it always opens the chain of purchases and impact on the cost of production and they always end up in the finals at the prices of products and services and they end up with the growth of the cost of life. If this month's warning that the cost of living is only two months back but alarming was not enough, I must conclude that I am personally surprised by the fact that both Mrs Adlesic and Mr Friscic agreed to such a programme, which is obviously necessary when it comes to energy, but without further proposed mechanisms to protect the cost of life of citizens in Croatia. Well, let's be ourselves. Secondly, an internal debt as a problem is not mentioned to exist, but on one page that I will quote later it is indicated that it existed but there are no mechanisms of suggestion or ways of dealing with external debt, not internally as if it were not there. And yet I do not have to admit I understand why both Mrs Adlesic and Mr Friscic agree to a programme that does not deal with internal debt, which is also quite large in agriculture as well. Let's move on. Third. I believe that the nation in Croatia is delighted with the proposal that all citizens get free of charge on the burden of the state e-mail address. But in a country where there is a provider, don't you think it's a monopoly that will be cemented for the next hundred years? And it's like we promise citizens that every citizen will get a cell phone number, a cell phone, whether he has a cell phone or not. What will the e-mail address do if it does not go and the computer that citizens can be used on the Internet? But we stayed on our own again. I am also amazed at the fact that fiscal decentralisation is not introduced in the area of decentralisation, but a new term has been found which we see around this way, that the means of balancing and supporting local self-government will be increased. This is so when the government becomes guardians of municipalities, cities and counties, so I would call it approximately that instead of fiscal decentralisation a custody decentralisation is carried out in favour of municipalities, cities and counties. It is also not clear to me, especially because of the statements made by these negotiating 45 days, why Mrs Adlesic and Mr Friscic agreed that there is not a single word of the Government's programme on workers or on labour law, or collective agreements, or social dialogue as something that will be the only and basic mechanism for the protection of workers' rights. However, in the area of pension and social security, there is a reference to the expressions of improvement, intentions, strengthening and insistence. So, for example. There is one insistence that is included in this programme, the Government's insistence that the average pension, or that the Government will seek to make the average pension equal to 50% of the average salary. We've already heard that in one agreement from last term in the first year 50%, by the end of 70%, and then from 42% of that share today it fell to 39.9%. In this programme, there is one intention, and it says that the government's intention is to introduce the lowest pension of five hundred kunas, only intention. But I found neither the government's insistence nor the government's intention to cover the union basket or the cost of the four-member family's lives, which at the moment amount to 6 thousand 400 kuna and only 75% coverage on average will increase it, keep it or reduce it. There are no mechanisms for the proposal or measures, and again I am surprised by the fact that Mrs Adlesic has agreed to this how to resolve some 160 thousand working disputes in courts that have been there for more than two years. Neither the minimum wage nor the minimum wage law proposed by one of the partners in the previous term is mentioned. And in this programme of that, these intentions, efforts or reinforcements when the minimum wage is unfortunately gone. There is no mention of the intentions or intentions to address the issue of the structure of the unemployed in terms of qualifications, how to enable them to acquire new skills because what the Croatian economy has to do, and how to address the absurd situation that we really have too much unemployment and on the other hand, employers say that they do not have the necessary workforce that would possess the skills they need today. I'm also, obviously, the result of certain compromises. Let's move on. It says in the program, I quote, that they are a priority to provide funds for the coverage of the health care facilities that have been completed for more than 180 days. It is simply impossible for such obligations to exist in Croatia. It is impossible for a Croatian hospital to have obligations older than 180 days for two reasons. First, because the contract with HZZO has obliged the state to pay within 150 days. And secondly, four years of the health minister every time the opposition warned that debt and payment from 120 came to 150, from 150 to 180, today is 230. It is now suddenly recognised that there is an unfulfilled obligation for healthcare institutions older than 180 days. I also hope that these debts will be shown in the account of the deficits when there is a report on the implementation of the budget for the past year. And I'll finish the next one. This programme is based on the existing strategic framework for Croatia's development 2006-2013. Compare this strategic program and this program of government, and decide whether you will change this booklet or the offered program. Both can't stay as documents because in a large number of points they're contradictory, conflicted. I'm not going any further now. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u346	Thank you. And a correction to an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u347	Your Honor. Dear Representative Lesar, exactly what you said when you counted it should be a book of some few thousand pages, but I think you skipped a chapter in this program, says social responsibility. In this particular chapter, you have the fourth point, it says: "We will continue to promote the social partnership by encouraging the involvement of all social groups in making the most important decisions". And above that point you have again "we will support the implementation of labour legislation, ensure the protection of workers' rights" etc. So let the social partners just be, and I guess you know that because they should know that employers and trade unions are also negotiating the lowest wage or the minimum wage law, as well as the collective contract, on the meaning of all issues that are of employment and social interest. Well, I guess the government won't prescribe what the social partners are going to negotiate or play the prophet as many prophets are playing here tonight just because they don't have a ball because they kind of know what's going to happen when they're going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u348	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u349	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates. The Prime Minister for the composition of the new government tried to say in two words the taste of the program that is today ahead of us and these are security and reliability. I hope that also applies to the team he proposes because it would be expected that trust in these people depends primarily on their ability to do this program. It is the government of HDZ, HSS and HSLS and I would like it to be the Government of European Manners, Capability, Competence, Education, Courage, Proactiveness. I would like all its members to speak an active at least one international foreign language, and if not globally, at least one official language of the European Union. That's not the case, unfortunately. I wish government members didn't hide the elements of their résumés as at least two candidates do. I'd like them not to chew or eat at Parliament sessions for hours. We've been watching them chew cowboys, candy. We know you're bored, we know it's possible, and we know it's tension because maybe some people don't know whether they're going to be chosen or not. But we've been here all day, too, and I hope that this nervousness and chewing gum doesn't come out of the government's announcement that smoking will stop because there's a theoretical possibility that some smokers are taking Nicolette. But let me look back at the program. In my court, the program is inconsistencies, it's methodologically inconsistencies. That is, of course, the necessity, given that it is not an integrated document, but that seven coalition agreements have been slaughtered. ... You don't need to commit, it would be good to integrate them so that you know both the other and the third coalition partners that are really going to work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's pretty brave in some parts. He's going with some deadlines that seem to me even impossible. In some situations, I'd dare say they're also inconclusive. This methodological imbalance is reflected in the fact that in one chapter we go to the details that it will change exactly that article and that law. And in other chapters it goes to the community, we'll consider, we'll see, we'll figure it out. But let's get back to safety and reliability. In the government, as things stand, people who say they must be reliable in this project. I'll tell you the example of the city where I come from what kind of reliability is it? For seven months now, on the table of the Minister of Agriculture, it has been at the signing of the agreement of a state-owned programme. It's not signed. The government now announces that it will no longer sell state agricultural land, and this programme is precisely based on the fact that it does not sell but gives in concessions and leases. Another example. A year and a half ago, the culture minister in Jaska promised to approve the Ministry and monitor the financial programme of the new theatre scene in Velika Gorica, which produced 5 prime ministers in just a year, and here in the programme it says it will encourage the establishment of permanent theatre ensembles. As much as this is a European trend, those dealing with culture will judge. Let's say a few more words about what's written here. I would like to trust Mr. Chehok, a colleague of HSLS that he had the best intentions in the negotiations and that he really believed that in the coalition agreement, and also in the programme, he would write what they stood for, but I am not going to get into speculation. There's a piece of paper that says what's agreed and what's going on in the program. A special story is a story of regional, fiscal and administrative decentralisation. When you put those two things in correlation, then you actually see that maybe Mr. Chehok really meant one thing and it turns out the other because of fiscal decentralisation there's nothing. This model, this model actually means strengthening the merciful role of a state that will share support for aid and balancing rather than increasing the original income of units of local and regional self-government. We are interested in when units of local self-government will therefore be able to solve the problems and quality of life of citizens, not when the state will grant them mercy. Take a good look at what it says. It is said that the succession government will determine the criteria by which it will distribute the money. Some of the criteria are even written here. According to those we can see here, there will be division again. And under the cover of the so-called. balanced regional development will indeed force only one and the other will remain at the door of the ministries. Isn't it a shame that our fellow mayors, commissioners and mayors use so much time breaking down the doors of ministries, agencies, state administrations, begging for funds for the elemental needs in the development of their own region? You, with this model, are only increasing the resources that will be on the disposition of these ministries to share according to the criteria that the government will establish on regulations. What is it, dear friends, but a new space for corruption and for political corruption? Let's be aware of that. If that happens, we'll go back to that debate and see who was right. It is further said that this system of fiscal and administrative decentralisation will lead us to a level of best European practice. Then whoever wrote it doesn't know what European practice is. European practice is real fiscal decentralisation, distribution of source budgets. So tax revenues. Not redistribution of state mercy. Now a few words about what's not here. On the Croatian Peasant Party website, there is no longer any pre-election program called "Viewing the Future" but you can still find it in HSLS. So you'll see, in fact, that they were really hard at negotiating coalition partners and that HDZ didn't accept much. There is no "p" in this programme since tax reform. The colleagues of HSLS and HSS asked for 6 tax laws to be changed, introduced or brought new ones and to remind the coalition requested the introduction of taxes on capital gains and taxes on inactive and speculative assets. Not a word about it here. There's not a word about ZERP. There's not a word about the inflation that's started to grow. There's no word on the alimony fund, and I'll remind you that two and a half months ago, the president of HSLS reminded us that we're not dealing with the alimony fund as a program because it's the original idea of HSLS. Where's your alimony fund, Mrs. Adlesic, in this government programme? Neither you nor HDZ. Tell your mothers, single parents now as you told them in the election campaign. I also ask you, since I personally witnessed oral promises, but I also have written promises from HSS and HSLS regarding the return of property to the land communities did not enter this programme. Tell now clearly 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are authorized or heirs to the mandate that you will not return to them what the communist authorities took away from them in 1947, which is the only form of property that has been taken away and has not been returned to today. Tell them that because you promised them. I'll remind you not only before the election, but on December 13th, senior HSS officials promised it. No problem, you haven't been able to negotiate and negotiate, but get out in front of those people who trusted you and tell them you weren't able to protect the interests of the people who chose you. It's lucky it's on paper. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Finish your colleague if you can]] It's lucky that the paper says so we don't have to... /The speaker's off.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Thank you very much. You've gone a little further, but there are others, so we'll get past that, won't we? But we have three corrections. First is Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u351	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Beus, said the president of the new government's mandate tried to implement the programme in two words. We remember very well that out of respect for this High House he read a very clear program and performed. Second, he said he was chewing and bored here during the session. Well, I haven't seen him all afternoon, where he had the chance to see it. And the third thing he said would be necessary if every member of the government knew at least one foreign language. Well, our president knows five foreign languages, and the other colleagues certainly know the same thing. So I'm asking nicely that a colleague don't bring such flat-rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u352	Thank you very much. Ivanka Roksandić here's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u353	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Beuss and you've started in a strange way your debate, I've read about your aesthetic abilities during the campaign, but I have to tell you, and I have to correct the incorrect allegations, several incorrect allegations, many of them. Speaking of decentralisation, you said, I quote: "Under the cover of even development, one will force one another to go around the door of the ministries" etc. I don't have any more time. So let me remind you, this particular government is changing the law on the financing of units of local self-government and your city and all of our cities to units of local self-government by laying down taxes correctly and returning income tax to the budget as far as I know about Velika Gorica about 38 million kuna. I come from this constituency, so I know, as well as my city of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County. So already in the last term, investment was invested in the even development of the state, thinking exactly changing tax policy. So everything you've been saying is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u354	Thank you very much, Ivanka. Another correction, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u355	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Beus has said several incorrect allegations especially about the coalition pre-election programme of HSS and HSLS. I must say that within the framework of the negotiations about 90% of this programme has been accepted and incorporated into this coalition agreement, which really cannot be more detailed than some 120 pages. I believe that all sides will stick to the coalition agreement, and Mr Beus would ask that he convey a message to the president of the county HNS in Sisak-Moslavina County that he too begin to stick to the agreement he signed there on the conduct of the government and make it better for everyone. When it comes to land communities, I will personally advocate as I have promised to return the land communities, and I hope my colleague Beus will support me in that, that you will not only remain on the poetic figure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u356	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Ms. Danica Hursa's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u357	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, respected candidates of the future Croatian government. Since I am only in this internship one day, let me say that I am Danica Hursa and that I come from a beautiful Croatian Zagorje from a small town called Oroslavje. I will be very brief, and I have answered the word out of the need for the Government, or the Resort Ministry to report, to ask for the problem of the disposal and treatment of wastewater to be included in the resolution. Since you listed two criteria from which I cannot read that the problem that has solved only 16% of the population of Croatian Zagorje will become a solution. So please do not talk here about what it means to remove and solve these problems for cities and municipalities and for my Croatian Zagorje as well as Međimurje to address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u358	Thank you, ma'am. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u359	Mr. President, distinguished candidates for government members, colleagues and colleagues. I promise I'll cut my exposure very short, but I'm asking you a few minutes of patience. I've been listening to you all day, here's a debate that lasts almost 12 hours and I'll try to sum it up. In a few minutes, we will vote on the trust of the members of the Government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask you especially new members of the Parliament, are they satisfied during this debate? In fact, I'm alluding to the fact that probably if you're objective, you can't be... /The speaker is off, so it's back on. /...all day long the citizens are following us and it's good to tell them that we're going to work better, that we're going to try to give full information. Here are a few examples. I have chosen these examples at random, and we can begin with the example of my colleague, Skora. You mathematically calculated that there would be fewer ministries than there were eight years ago, I couldn't agree more. But the message is incorrect, why? Because when citizens listen to us and say you see, they cut the number of ministries by 4.5 ministries, so many ministers less. It would be good if it were a savings, if it were really less of an official, if it were less of an expense, but it wasn't. At the same time as the ministry was reduced four years ago, the number of officials, the state system, the apparatus, the state administration was enormously increased. I'll show you the exact figures so we don't waste any time now, whenever you want, during the next month when we meet here. Secondly, in his third or fourth intervention today in addressing one of the parliamentary deputies who touched the European Commission's reports that he disagreed with that comment, it was that a shift was made in all areas, but he did not say and probably most of you do not know how Croatia is assessed. What's the score system? Is that a system of carrots and beatings? It's not. It's a system of three carrots small, bigger and bigger. They're fine diplomatically telling you that you've made limited progress. Progress. It's a score between one and two, and progress is called. It's called progress. Secondly, some progress, some progress and good progress, good progress Mr. Prime Minister did not tell us what areas they received from the evaluation. That would be very interesting. Ask him a little, then tell your voters the truth. Then he still wanted to say a few words about what he officially brought out of the HDZ club by his colleague Hebrang. He presented a series of data supporting the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Part of that data is correct. The part isn't right. But the message's not good again. Because if we're so good, then why are we getting into all this reform? And I say that we are not so well, because we can also use other figures, concrete figures to tell Croatian citizens why reforms are needed, why strong shifts are needed. My colleagues and colleagues, 20 years ago Croatia had more industrial production than today. My colleagues and colleagues, 20 years ago Croatia and Slovenia were shoulder to shoulder. In the meantime, Slovenia has moved a little further away from us. Slovenia. Wait a minute, I'll tell you why. Slovenia today produces, exports and sales on the world market six times more products... from Croatia. Six times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not 6%. Not 16%. Not 60%, but 6 hundred percent. It's war I believe for one part of it, but colleagues and colleagues, just one small part of that story. A little bit of that story. They did a lot different than privatization, clearly from supporting those companies they found to be clearly perspectives on the world market, etc., perfecting human resources, clearly directing economic development, and doing a lot of things in a diametric way, contrary to what we did. Hebrang, a colleague, also praised the educational segment. Once again, Croatia will enter the European Union for several years and will be a country among them with the highest percentage of illiterate citizens, with the highest percentage of citizens who have only primary school or do not even have primary school. Scientific productivity of Croatia. Compare only with Slovenia. Foreign debt of Croatia. Compare again with Slovenia. Let's not go too far. It's only 20 kilometers. I'm not going to pick up any of my colleagues and colleagues any further. My personal message is let's try to be objective. Let's try not to pull each other's noses because then through the media we pull out clearly and all Croatian citizens and then they believe that there are two truths, that there are different options. They don't exist. I believe that the goal of each of us is the same, the improvement of this country. None of you will ever convince me that you love this country more than I do. No one's going to convince me. No, I don't. You won't convince me. Therefore, I would like to tell you that each of my performances will be aimed at informing each other objectively and trying to find the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u360	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u361	Thank you very much. A colleague made a few incorrect allegations. I'll go as far as I can, until there's something red in there. He said that I said that the Republic of Croatia had the biggest increase in the last term of industrial production and I remain there. That's right. She's never had a 7% increase, not even in the period you're feeling sorry for your colleague. Another thing that is incorrect, that Slovenia in production has a little run away from us. She did not escape, because we have a higher industrial growth rate than Slovenia, we have a lower deficit of the state budget and for four years we have a greater increase in gross national income than Slovenia. And the third is incorrect when you said that I listed false data is that they're part of the data that I said was incorrect, and I'm saying it's incorrect that they're incorrect, because they're correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u362	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Anto Djapic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u363	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am convinced that we all want to raise economic growth together, new employment, bigger pensions, and I could count on it further because we believe that all these reasons are in the programming of the parties sitting in this honorable House today. However, apart from this objective being clear, the question of how and how to achieve it is raised. Since the beginning of its draft, the IDS has been in favour of decentralisation and regional development, respecting the specificities of each end, so I welcome the establishment of a new Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as the establishment of a separate Ministry of Tourism, because it is certain that this country needs it. But as citizens at local and national level expect concrete measurable results of work, so let me point out just some of the concrete things that I expect from this government. First of all, I expect to finally build a new hospital in Istria, in the city of Pula and immediately use the opportunity to invite the future health minister to visit the city of Pula, see how the health system in the city of Pula operates today where the hospital is divided into two locations. We are also pleased that the Istrian University was founded, but it lacks campus. We want to build our development on knowledge, so I expect an equal attitude towards all parts of our country. We also expect concrete results on care for the elderly, specifically homes for older and powerless because a large majority of people are waiting for accommodation because there is not enough capacity. Perhaps the biggest concern of our fellow citizens is the construction of roads and road infrastructures. We cannot wait for another tourist season with a collapse in traffic if we really want to develop tourism in our country. I'm saying this specifically for the city of Pula. It was also about protecting the environment and the sea. Therefore, I appeal, we must continue to build a sewer. But what I did not find in this programme, and I would not like it to be hidden, refers to the area of energy, page 39, where it is said that investment in electricity production will intensify, which means the completion of the construction of a hydropower plant and the completion of the construction of a gas thermoelectric power plant in Zagreb, Sisak, Slavonia and Dalmatia. However, there was no mention of a gas thermal power plant in Plomin, Istria. And I want to believe that it's not in... After talking about coal energy, because the spatial plan of the Istrian County by the most representative body of the county was not foreseen by the Plomin III thermal power plant. on coal already on gas as the most environmentally acceptable energy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in our county, the electoral unit from which I come we expect to solve the problem so-called. agricultural land, because believe our farmers who deal with potato farming cannot pay the price of a hectare of land and then offer products, their potatoes with a sea view. Simply the price of agricultural land must be classified throughout the country by classes, regardless of where the region is, if we really want to develop agriculture. I also have to say from my experience so far, it's not all about money, but some things also apply to efficiency and functioning, or decision making. So far, the Central Property Management Office has been under-functioning. Any decision concerning the units of local self-government, city or municipality in which state ownership is incorporated, such decisions shall simply be made slowly. Finally, I'm taking the opportunity to invite a new secretary of defense. Come to Pula, the army has left, mostly from the city of Pula since they have declared one part of that area unspective and we are satisfied with that. However, we are plagued by a ammunition warehouse that stands there, which is not necessary and slows down the further development of our city. So I, the future minister, want every success in the work, but I urge you to come see and see how absurd one decision can be, one ministry, and how much that can affect the further development of a city like the city of Pula. The election is behind us, I wasn't talking about the past, I was talking about the future and the real, everyday needs of citizens. I also read the lives of future ministers and government members and found that a good part of you had just been and participated in the executive government. And I'm sure you understand this dictionary I'm speaking. I expect better communication and a more efficient solution to the specific problems of our citizens and I want to believe that the new Government will have an equal relationship with all parts of its country, and so does the same, and that means concrete items in the 2008 state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u364	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u365	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed candidates for the composition of the new government! I would like, personally, as a representative in the Parliament, first of all, to say that I want a lot of success to the new government, which I believe the position in this part of the session will be chosen. I certainly want to say something here that I personally and I of the IDS will stand for in this House. And this is for the true, sincere decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia, for the transfer of powers to municipalities, cities and also for fiscal decentralisation. Maybe that's not exactly what the government said, but I believe and I hope that's how it's gonna be. On the other hand, I want the decentralisation to be carried out in that part of the decentralisation and the decentralisation of the health and social care system. It certainly enables more even but also faster development of the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that it is the interest of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. What we can also support the Government's proposals is Croatia's path to the European Union, means everything that appears to be at the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and there is no dispute there at all. Of course, we would like to support and initiate proposals to protect the particularly vulnerable part of the population, the poor, because surely with this price attack I think we have reason to take steps in this House of Higher Education in this direction, I would say especially in the protection of the pensioners. We will surely be in favour of this High House for the Protection of Minority Rights, supporting proposals that go towards raising and health standards and especially standards in social care. Here, what I want is to come from one of the most developed counties, but I certainly want to say here that Istria today has no miles or meters of highways, that Istria today is a railway link that can only reach Zagreb through Ljubljana. And I absolutely support it because part of the program is the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon, regardless of what is worth saying 'it is not built on the burden of the state budget, but on the concession system, but I certainly support the construction and railway tunnel through Učka that the railways in Istria are also connected to the railway lines of the Republic of Croatia. And that also means a strong economic development. Here, I want to believe that the projects mentioned by fellow Miletic, such as the new General Hospital and the University of Pula for which the co-financing agreements have been concluded, will be found in this year's budget, but also in the projections of the 2009 and 2010 budget, because surely not that these projects of Istria are necessary but also necessary, given that Istria is a region that achieves more than 30% of the tourism traffic of the Republic of Croatia and some facilities do not serve us all with pride and honor. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u366	Thank you. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u367	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honored members and members of the future Croatian government. I would like to speak a few more words about the government's energy programme, about the inflator effects of the programme, already being elaborated by my colleague, Lesar. However, the fact is that more is said in this programme about energy supply and very little is said about production. The natural gas supply routes, the highway pipelines, are being elaborated, but this will further affect the energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia on energy sources that are not on its soil. A certain recession in the United States and an increased drive for energy in China with its heated economy, as well as pressure from the Indian economy on the rise, require a much more concrete and efficient energy policy and programme than was offered in this government's 2008-2011 programme. In fact, all international analysts predict significant energy supply disturbances globally. Therefore, this programme needed to be much more focused on reducing the import dependence of the Republic of Croatia on energy, because only energy self-sufficiency and independence are guarantees of independence, sovereignty, self-dependence as well as the dam of neo-colonialism, contemporary neo-colonialism. In order for energy policy to become something real and tangible, it would have to offer an answer that the Republic of Croatia will take into account the expected economic growth and God forbid even greater growth than the prominent representative Hebrang said that the current statistical indicators are of 7% so that several thousand megawatts will be replaced after 2015, perhaps even before the economic growth is foreseen and so in 2015, the end of the lifetime is several thermoelectric plants in the Republic of Croatia. How will the government compensate for the inflationary pressure of expensive energy? The programme says that the investment in electricity production will be intensified, which means the completion of a drop in the sea, and the completion of the construction of a gas thermal power plant in Zagreb, Sisak, Slavonia and Dalmatia. So, depending on the import gas and we had opportunities to see what kind of trouble Ukraine had, for example, because of its dependence on Russian gas. It also says the possibility of building a power plant will be considered. So the possibility of building a power plant will be considered and the power plant will not be built. Therefore, the focus on energy corridors or supply has been reinforced to expose the Republic of Croatia to the dangers of global disturbances on the energy supply plan. There is no positive or negative attitude in the programme on nuclear energy. I am not pleading for or against the government's position on the problem, since by reducing the availability of fossil fuels, Europe is turning itself into building new nuclear power plants in its own policy. Furthermore, I am also interested in the view of nuclear energy, and I think it is also interested in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because of the notorious fact that the Republic of Croatia is co-owner of 50% of the Krško nuclear power plant located only 30km of the Zagreb air line as the largest population centre in the Republic of Croatia and the capital. What is the point of privatising and selling the Krško Nuclear Power Plant because it says in this programme "There will continue to be further development of the HEP business system (restructure and privatisation)". Personally, I believe that only the Croatian part of Krško Nuclear Power Plant remains in Croatian ownership of security guarantees for the operation of the plant because only the Croatian part of the Croatian ownership guarantees the possibility of direct influence of the Croatian government on the security policy of the nuclear power plant, otherwise we would be exposed to a very complicated mechanism of international conventions and also dams, so staying owned by the Croatian part also represents a dam against the possible entry of speculative capital into the energy system of south-east Europe, so also at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which immediately reduces the safety assumptions of the operation of the power plant. So personally, I don't think it's wise to privatise the HEP business system, but if it's in the development and function of building new energy facilities, then I really welcome it because the fact is that when energy objects are located on the territory of the state, then they are, no one can take them with them. However, the question arises why there is no clause in this item on the minimum ownership of shares that remain in the Republic of Croatia and, for example, when it comes to INA, then it is said that Croatia will retain a minimum of 21% plus one share owned by the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing Croatia's decision-making option. I would be happy if such a clause existed in the event of the announced privatisation of Croatia's electricity industry. The question also arises as to who this, truth correct though, as I said, not particularly ambitious energy programme will be implemented because students of technical and natural sciences are becoming increasingly less and less energized. I also believe that this energy policy should go beyond the four-year period because the construction of a new, one new energy facility exceeds 4 and even 8 years, and I think that the government should once step forward and make an energy programme for a period beyond several mandates because it would only be a guarantee of energy sovereignty and, as I said, independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u368	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Slavko Linic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u369	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, future members of the government. In the programme of government that we have received special attention today is given to social responsibility and we have the whole chapter on social responsibility. For what? Because the document finds that the accelerated development of the Republic of Croatia has so far had negative consequences for individuals. And the government's goal is to remove these negative consequences in such a way that each individual in future accelerated development includes equal. And we estimate that that's how we're going to solve the problem at the moment of negative consequences. And what are the negative consequences? I will try to speak not with numbers not to correct ourselves but perhaps what is said in a simple, understandable language. In the last 4 years, a slight increase in wages compared to the price race. But still mild. Speaking of the last 10 years, the slightest growth. Speaking of pensions, unfortunately, pensions didn't come up fast. And that speaks of these negative consequences of development because it's obvious that individual development doesn't feel. The individual feels the negative consequences. Not enough pay, not enough pension. I'm not going to talk about health care because it's quite said, but obviously, the accumulated health problems are neither a provision of quality care for the same individual's health. Nor is it to believe that this individual will stop paying for services to protect his health. Therefore, this is also a negative consequence of the recent accelerated development. That's the last two months we've had an uncontrollable price race. Why? Because what happened at the beginning of this year was clear to everyone. The price of oil will pass a $100 barrier per barrel. That's why the rise is going to cost energy. And the result will be difficult to control the prices. Negative, negative result of price growth who feels it? Only an individual who lives harder because of this negative effect again. Do we have government messages to control price hikes? How are we going to take our policy towards energy when we know that more prices won't fall significantly below $100 a barrel of oil. We don't have it in the program. Not specified. There's no suggestion. But here at that same point of social responsibility we're trying to say that a private individual will have to take care of it, I apologize to a private entrepreneur, have to take care of the individual. And they've been sending a message, too, in the last two months. There's no room for salary growth. There's no room. Because the simple battle for competitiveness, the desire to be competitive and present not only on the domestic but also on the European market does not allow price increases. And yet the problem that breaks down on the individual. And this individual is a citizen of Croatia. It's hard now for all of this government program to try to analyze how it's going to have a negative impact on an individual, so I'm going to stick to energy. You see in the field of energy it's your head 8. As my colleague pointed out earlier, there's no program for your own energy. Production of your own energy. Imagine we have domestic oil, but it doesn't say anything about domestic oil. They don't talk about when the price is $100 a barrel, you have an obligation to wear out the weakest quality. And the one that requires huge investments and that basically all the resources that we have to extract to have our own energy. You don't have one word at all about the production of domestic oil and let alone the program of battle and investment in extraction and the last tons of oil. You know, we've always heard so much about Adriatic gas, the production of Adriatic gas, not a word of it. We don't even know if the Adriatic fields are going to open, because the gas is expensive. And gas is an energy that's very important, not just because we have our own energy. Well, tax policies can be very helpful in helping an individual to survive the impact of world prices more easily than they are jobs. But no, there's no domestic oil production in this program, no gas production. As my colleague said, only transports to make it easier to import, that's what we find in this program. And one more thing. You know, I'm having a hard time falling stories. We're gonna finish modernizing the refinery. Here in that former Croatian, I worked in one of these refineries, and two Croatian refineries were 100% covering Croatia's needs for derivatives, Slovenia, Montenegro, in part Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. It was covered by two Croatian refineries. Today, Croatian refineries cannot meet the needs of the Croatian market, not for consumption, but because they produce non-quality products that are not acceptable to the Croatian market. Yes, we did not invest in domestic production of derivatives, so we also import derivatives in Croatia alongside two refineries. It's a fact, and here it's about completion. There is no finale in this mandate because no investment called the modernisation of the Sisak and Rijeka refineries has been launched. You know, it's just as hard to fall when all Europe is just talking about energy, that we can read will intensify investments to complete the construction of a hydrocarbon, not even the name is written, I don't know it. I don't know who knows the hydrocentral we're gonna finish. ... Great. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At least you could write it. Because then the answer is that it's too small, unambitious, we don't use the upper currents to produce energy to enable an individual to improve quality again, and we also don't talk about how important the battle is to reduce the stock exchange deficit. So you know why there's a major trade deficit, because of the enormous imports of energy. And we can even export it. We can even export it. We can export electricity. Therefore, in that part of the battle for energy production to strengthen the position of the individual, but also the position of our exports and reduce the trade deficit, there is simply no such thing in the Government's programmes. Of course, it's not just energy that's the problem of the individual. The individual's problem is infrastructure. But when we talk about infrastructure, you'll see really ambitious government programs, ambitious, it's just a question of whether they're real, and at that point we're going back to energy. The sources of funding in those capital infrastructures are the price of fuel and it is obvious that the government must consider whether 1.20 kuna will be removed from the fuel price to enable the battle to bring down prices and the quality of the individual's life. But if 1.20 kuna is removed from the price of fuel for roads regardless of whether the construction is new or is Croatian roads, that is where we will find the money and to return existing loans to road infrastructure, and to invest in all these projects that we can list in the government's programme. There is no such development of finances, there are no such sources, because the existing projects with such high price and government obligation are simply at risk to consider 1.20 kuna in the price of fuel. But there's also the railway, the railway infrastructure that's the obligation of the state budget. In which we want to invest, a railway that is listed according to the river, an ambitious project. Where are the funds for that, when apparently the price of fuel is no longer. Where are they? They're gone. It is therefore evident that if we do not see the resources and resources to invest in these infrastructure problems and projects at this point we do not see even the reality of these investments, these projects. There are no projects either, it is again a problem and jobs and investment in Croatian and private business activities that are necessary to make the rate of growth 7% come true. Unfortunately, this program in that part is very missing. And, of course, it's an important message to the entrepreneurs. We said enormous responsibility for entrepreneurs who must simply take over their part of the economic growth rate, who must assume their share of responsibility for the citizens of Croatia. But unequivocally, the pay is burdened with huge contributions. A lot of contributions. How are we going to solve the problem of over-income on salary? What about the health care contribution? High on salary, not enough to finance health care. Where we're going to find that money so we can resuscitate the health minuses, so we can secure all these demands today we've heard the most, we want a better health care. Where we're gonna find that money, and at the same time, we're gonna get rid of the entrepreneurs. Obviously, this government programme will not solve the fundamental problem, and this is the problem of the negative consequences of Croatian development.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u370	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and one correction. First it's Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. You've got a replica of Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u371	Thank you, Mr. President. I would really like to refer to two questions that you said in your presentation. You first wondered how the government plans to secure its own energy sources in this programme, saying that the construction and completion of a hydropower plant is insufficient for the current conditions in Croatia. But I would like to remind you of the 2005 state audit report that audited the HEP and found that the founding investment that concerned the projects of several hydropower plants planned for construction in Croatia was illegally written off. There on the board of directors and ministers, they probably gave that consent. And as for this question that you tried to give a certain answer about, what does it mean today's increase in energy prices because of the high oil price, how does the government respond? It responds in a way that within 3 to 5 years energy in Croatia will reach the market price, but has not said anywhere that it will ensure a minimum wage or a certain level of minimum pension in this mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u372	Thank you. Answer to the replica Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u373	Our problem is also a huge water resource that has not been used and where projects to build new hydropower plants that would allow the production of domestic electricity and export and electricity and repair of highly negative goods exchanges with the world have not then been found a solution to ensure better jobs, jobs and highly professional personnel in HEP that can simply mean improving individual position without speaking alike so that it would mean the government's ability to influence the price of electricity, because simply higher domestic production would always be one that could be more competitive than import. And as long as we don't solve this problem of domestic energy, we're not gonna solve our very accumulated problems. I'd just mention the hydropower plant of the Virus. So often she talks about her that she could certainly not only substitute for electricity, but maybe replace some other kind of energy, whether it's oil, whether it's a gas that's unfortunately imported.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u374	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u375	That you have spoken about this programme and point 2 of your colleague Linić, the social responsibility that you have rightly stressed the need for responsible behaviour towards the individual, and the individual who has been marginalized by the market way of management and who has just found himself alone in his work. But the fact is that work is systematically diminished, that all gloria goes to capital and that there really is no active participation in how to correct such an injustice, because only work creates a new value. Therefore, if it only writes here that the government will support the implementation of labour legislation by applying all available control mechanisms to encourage the practice of peaceful dispute settlement that was passed in the long term in 2003. It simply must ensure the application of these laws that have long existed, but also create what was promised to correct this injustice. She was already talking about it, and Mrs. Zgrebec, which is with the promised minimum wage law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u376	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u377	Yes, the government has the opportunity to improve the situation of individuals because changes in tax policy in part of the contribution are possible to free space for private entrepreneurs and for wage growth, as it is obvious that wage growth will be the only one that can address price growth at this point and mitigate the effects of price growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u378	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u379	Your Honor. Representative Linic said that there was a slight wage increase compared to prices, but I think it would be fair just for those watching us tell the truth, and Mr Linic knows it very well, he was in that government that one move reduced wages 30% to 40% in early 2000 and it's hard to reach that level of wages that were then paid in view of so much pay cuts. It's just for the truth. Second. I don't know why such double-faced SDP behavior when caring about rising prices. On the one hand, at national level, it takes care of price growth and the social consequences of this, and it deliberately fails even though it has already been mentioned here today, a drastic price increase. I say drastic. He's out of his mind. When something 50% picks up, some 35 percent pick up. This is not normal at local level which will directly affect the citizens, the citizens of Zagreb and that layer that is most socially endangered in this city. That's what they keep quiet about, and they don't answer anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u380	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u381	Thank you very much. I'm correcting, or I'm calling for Article 209. I know my colleague Kunst is a fresh representative, but you should know one thing. That there is no correcting in this House what is silenced or not said, but that is possible to correct what you have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u382	It's Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen candidates for the future government. Here we are all day here discussing a really important document and this morning, in the opening explanation, I particularly liked it and stuck to the ear a sentence of the prime minister who proposed this document, who said we could no longer walk in Croatia. And that's exactly the line that encouraged me to report to this debate, and I've been paying attention to this document from which each of us, and it would be best for every citizen of this country, is clear what's going to happen in these four years, or what's going to happen in these four years so we don't have a situation to walk in this place. I, indeed right now, have taught me the political experience of not doubting the good intentions of all those who participated in the composition of this document. But I also can't help but present some of my critical remarks that undermines its quality and credibility, and then violates this desire of the future government, the future Prime Minister, that we don't walk in place. I join all those who have said that, nevertheless, this document shows that it has come into being as a political compromise, that it is composed of several different political pre-election programmes prepared, and that, as a government programme, it requires a certain amount of work to be done in order to ensure that we do not have these parts in which we have very concrete measures and activities and even instruments, but also very much principled things, and in my opinion, in those parts of this programme, for which there is no reason for them to be drawn up in principle and they are so important, they are so expensive, they depend on future development, that it is really not very good that this has appeared here and that these projects, we cannot learn more about any more concrete measures. I also like this programme, and I like one goal that you will find at the very beginning in the section that talks about the macro-economic policy and the state budget that says that citizens must feel the well-being of economic and overall social development. The longer I deal with politics, the less I have patience for loose stories, and the more I am interested in documents and measures that show how it will be realized. If we're talking about citizens then I'm safe and you'll agree with me that they're interested in how more work will be done, how they'll get or get bigger salaries, how there'll be bigger pensions, how there'll be more social, economic, legal security. It's the only thing that citizens of us who do politics do, we run the state in one way or another, and they expect us to. This entire programme contains, in fact, these measures, and I think it is very important that the part that talks about even development, accelerated development, and that we bring this down again to what is most concrete in fundamental terms, this development must be economic development. It is said in this first part and on the balance of the budget. We'll even up the incomes and expenses. Reduced debt needs are being discussed to ensure more money for the financing of entrepreneurship projects. But in that part, and in other parts that should explain how we're going to do it, it doesn't exactly stand out how. Or when she writes something concrete, then it's really not enough for one of these extensive government programs. Our economy that needs to create additional value in order to ensure all that is important for the development of this country and for a better life, citizens have a serious problem with high costs. Most of these high cost products are just poorly organised and still unstructured state-owned companies which stand in the form of an increase in these prices. On the right there were talk of municipal costs in the City of Zagreb, but the dear gentlemen did not only in the City of Zagreb unfortunately increase municipal costs, but in all the cities in this country. They grew apart from communal costs, except for utility costs, and they increased the prices of what is much more, which is much harder for citizens and that's food. There are reasons for that, and there are reasons for that, but that's not what citizens are interested in. They ask us to provide them with conditions in which their employers will be able to provide them with higher wages so that they can also cover these increased costs. They're growing in economic debt. It's something you don't talk about. The state reportedly reduces its duties but increases the entrepreneurship's duties. That can't be considered either. The competitiveness of our economy is still extremely problematic. I am also interested in the answer to the question of what the state can do to affect the reduction of these costs and the growth of competitiveness on the increase in profits in the economy and the increase in employment. There are unfortunately no answers to these key questions in this document. In that part, the programme is indeed principled. There are also talks about programmes and about fostering economic development through competent ministries. However, I would really not want these incentives and measures to be as they were in the previous term when, for example, they were. an aide to the Ministry of Economy shall grant itself, or to its own company, the largest possible support per competition. On the other hand, one production plant that employs about 300 workers is encouraged by this same tender of nine thousand kuna. It's not the euro, it's the kuna. There is no criterion, there is nothing that could read that would be different. There's also talk of fiscal transparency. It's very important. We're talking about a better insight into taxpayers' money spending. But we can't read about it here either. I hope it won't be like having a transparent supply of a truck in Moreh. The purpose of the investment is to be sought. We must finally recognise from such documents the criteria of priorities and the coherence of all these large investments, necessary investments. None of them are excessive because they are expensive and important national projects. Are we going to build sports arenas or school sports halls? Are we finally going to find out from this document how, which way, how much will it cost and what an important highway from Split to Dubrovnik will look like to us? Since this is a new government I do not doubt your good intentions, but since it is a government that will have to deal with not exactly the easy legacy of last government will not be easy for you. We will on our side as an opposition at least as far as I'm concerned, I speak in an individual debate, watch what you've listed here as concrete projects and how you'll do it because, unfortunately, today, it doesn't say how, neither when, nor how much it will cost taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u384	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. Mr. Ivan Chehok first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u385	I must correct my esteemed colleague, Mrs Antunovic, that all cities have raised utility prices. There's at least one city that isn't, or I don't know yet, and I'm the mayor of that town. So it wasn't Varazdin. We didn't increase any communal donations. And Mrs Antunović, Varazdin is otherwise the most communally equipped city in Croatia, far more equipped than Zagreb. We will be the first city to be completely covered by a sewerage unlike Zagreb which is very bad, a waterway that is very bad, roads that are very bad and all other things. So, don't say, don't say things, but say that in Zagreb the prices have really gone up unwarranted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u386	Thank you very much. Another correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u387	It is true that not all counties have raised the price of municipal services, as MP Antunovic said, and let alone so drastically. And it certainly needs to be restructured by those societies that are making such a loss. Instead of investing funds elsewhere, I would be more pleased if this water network would finally be repaired if the citizens of Zagreb did not pay at the price of 60% of the loss of water that flows from the porous pipes. But I think it should be a problem for both your parties and for you to talk seriously about it, not simply try to transfer the problem to other counties that are not nearly as priced and let alone not talk about the tax and where the money from the cut that the city of Zagreb collects.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u388	Here you go, Mrs. Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u389	Mr. President, colleague Kunst has injured Article 209(2). He's been doing it all day long. I kindly ask him, there is a yellow tile, it is a replica, and be sure when you use it, be a jack so use it because you will always get the right answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u390	Thank you very much. This debate ended an individual discussion and discussion of clubs. Finally, five minutes on behalf of the SDP club will be addressed by Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u391	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, honored candidates, the esteemed prime minister. This has been a long day, but democracy is such a process, a long, complicated one, together exactly the opposite of what bureaucracy should be. There was also a lot of bile sports today, at least a sports jargon was used for counterfeiting, for non-recognition. That's a lot of hard words. Counterfeiting is a felony. Extortional recognition involved in the Inquisition. We didn't exactly get on top of it. We wanted today and to the extent that we have succeeded, we feel good and satisfied, to open up a deep, detailed debate about this government, its programme, its personnel and what these people have been doing for the past four years because you agree that this is certainly not the subject of correcting an incorrect quote, these are more or less the same people. And in the end, this country and its fate are the work of these people. So the reasons why we can't support this government are humane, institutional and all the ones we talked about. The report or criteria set by the European Union at the end of December are facts. There is no evil or depravity when we find these facts but these facts and the situation that Brussels is finding with which we must agree the most standards are the result of the fact or inaction of this same government, these same people over the past four years. In them, there is an answer to the question of whether the judiciary works, whether we have any good programs to start working because they are returning us to the beginning to put together programmes for the judiciary, to fight corruption, so that only then can we start negotiations. Damir! ... /Applause./ [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u392	I'm sorry, you've distracted the speaker a little bit, but here's another minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u393	Regardless of some very optimistic high, large figures here spoken about the state of the Croatian economy, the truth is something different, and the truth is that in Croatia after four years of the term of office of this government, these people have an average pension, so something to measure the standard of more than a million of our citizens compared to the average salary and that it has fallen. That economic growth in Croatia, regardless of what is this year and it is measured at an annual level and not at a quarterly rate, has exceeded 5%. ... See, that's democracy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're learning and it's slow. Thus, in the term of the government's mandate, growth was among the lowest in transition Europe on average, that unemployment after four years of office was among the two most in transition Europe. Only Poland has more if we do not measure with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Serbia, and we should not measure in this. And when these are the facts that position you in the world you live in, in the regions where you live and with those you compete with. Therefore, the general assessment is insufficient. It's not enough when it comes to the program or when it is. So when I get back to the beginning and I'm going to end up, when I've commented on some things and been convicted of counterfeiting and non-recognition, then it's either a bile reaction or a consequence of justness or the truthfulness of the one who reacted or a reaction to the truth that hurts. You're on your own. I want all the best for this government to the extent that I want all the best for Croatia and for all of us, but as far as the government is concerned, we don't have too much hope. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u394	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Now the final address will be made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u395	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I welcome as mandater and as president of the Croatian Democratic Community all present in the Croatian Parliament in this final word at the end of the debate, discussions on the programme and the new government. I welcome all Croatian TV viewers who have been diligently, persistently watching this transmission today because they are interested in the future of Croatia. I welcome all those who decided on November 25th that this government, this political option together with the coalition partners with whom we proposed this programme continues to lead Croatia. It is a decision of November 25th, and if we are Democrats and we are, we swear on democracy, then that decision and the will of Croatian voters must be recognised and it is no extortional reaction. It's a simple reality. If it weren't for that, then I wouldn't be here but someone else. If not, that's true, that's the fact that it's not like that then we wouldn't be sitting here but sitting down for some other candidates for ministers and members of the government. If that were not the case, the ruling coalition in which the Croatian Democratic Union is, the Croatian Peasant Party, HSLS, HSU, national minorities, the SDSS and others would not be in the ruling coalition but would be you. On, however, voters decided differently. And that, and what you're going to do in the next four years will be that you're going to be an opposition. But it's an honorable duty, too. It is an honor to serve Croatia both in your country and in your opposition. At least that's how we see it. And since we would quote and I would be happy to quote the esteemed representative Damir Kajin, who had a great performance and critical of the government, announced that he would not vote for the government but said one thing and that is what I think it should be possible to single out perhaps from part of the opposition representatives of other parties, he said, "I will not vote for this government," I also took the exact quote "but I would like something else to make this government successful because it depends on its success and how Croatian citizens live." A few seconds later, he also said that he thought that Croatia would probably enter the European Union in 2010 or 2011 and the possibility and likelihood of repeating the election result in 4 years. I'm holding your thumbs, Mr. Cain, for announcing this, and we're gonna do everything we can to make your grip come true. Otherwise, I quote you what you said. So like this, we have heard today's assessment of the past four years and now from the distinguished representative of Mr Milanovic. But we're much less interested in what you've rated, how you've rated the past four years, and we're much more interested in what they say is the ultimate instance of democracy, and these are voters. And the voters have said theirs. The voters rated the work of this government, ours in the past term of coalition partners as an extraordinary grade. What's an extraordinary grade? Election victory. It is the will of Croatian voters and that is the assessment. It is the only rating I recognise as the president of the strongest political party, as the Prime Minister and, by the will of this House, I hope and seek support as the future president of the Croatian government. It's the only grade I admit. It's the only rating we all recognize here, as Croatian voters say, and they've made it very clear what they're saying. And that's why it was kind of sad to listen to you, and part of it when I wasn't in the hall, I watched over the review screen, the charges, and the repeat of everything we've been listening to, and in the last maybe year, two mandates, as well as the election campaign. Because it is simply not what Croatian voters and Croatian citizens say. Because if they said what you say, then I repeat the roles of today in the Croatian Parliament at the beginning of the new convocation would be different. So my government's work for the past four years has been such that voters have told us, "Take the country once more." That's it. And you can't do that, and you can't deny it. However, in the debates, as well as in the last discussions between distinguished representatives Linic and Mrs Antunovic and others, not to list only the two as the last were both very correct and very constructive proposals. And what I'm about to tell you and that's what we're gonna do. We will consider them, we will see them because we know that in your ranks, too, all of these, these bickerings and everything that has happened since the elections to this day, but tonight, by voting the new Government, Croatia is moving into a new four-year term. We will consider these proposals and these discussions and what we consider to be good, of course, that we will join our coalition partners in the work of the government. And I give you my word that we will do it in the future. If there are any good proposals from the opposition benches, we will accept them. Croatia does not really have the right to accept, accept and respect, Croatia does, but we will also expect the opposition to accept what is good by the ruling coalition in the Croatian Parliament. But democracy is such that in the end votes are counted. And that's why in these four years you'll be in a position to make suggestions. We'll consider them and if they're good enough to accept them. If they don't, you'll have to admit that you have fewer representatives than the ruling coalition has. And that is democracy, and that is why we will finally say that regardless of the different opinions in the Croatian Parliament, the different views of the former term of office, the four-year term around which your views and our views differ, but what is much more important to us is that our views do not differ with the views of most Croatian voters. Because if the results were different, you'd be different. So the criticism of the four-year term on your part is logical, expected but does not match what most Croatian citizens and voters think. Most Croatian citizens and voters think that much progress has been made over the past period for Croatia, that the largest number of jobs have been achieved, the largest number of jobs in one term of office. If you compare the number of unemployed in December or November 2003 and 2007 then you can see that 129 thousand are more employees. These are facts that cannot be denied. If the general government deficit is compared at the end of 2003 and at the end of 2007, then it is seen that it was 6.3% at the time and that it is 2.6% even smaller today, 2.3. If you see the state's debt, the state's external debt at the end of 2003, and today it is seen that then there was 34% of the total foreign debt made up the government's share in external debt, and today it is 21%. That's what Mrs. Antunovic and you were talking about external debt, that's what the state can do, what the government did. Today, the share of the country is 21%, and it was 34%. Can we be responsible for those two other thirds, banks and the population? We can't. We can influence fiscal policy on government debt, but monetary policy is not in the government's portfolio, in the responsibility of the government, but in the responsibility of the central bank, the Croatian National Bank. I don't want to criticize the Croatian National Bank, but I'm just saying and I repeat again, monetary policy is not in the government's jurisdiction, executive power, but monetary government, which is the Central Bank. Gross domestic product is not 5%, gross domestic product growth. So the whole of Croatia knows that it's more than 6%, we'll see at the end of the statistics, but it's certainly greater than 6%. Bigger than 6%. It will be published by those who are in charge and who,...... Well, you're not going to question the Central Bank and the statistical offices, because everything should be the way you want it to be, and you're not going to watch that movie. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You won't be watching that movie. The way it's published and what statistics it's going to be, you're going to have to accept it, gentlemen, and you can honk it's 5%, but it was over 6%. The price of oil was to say just one more thing about it, and the unemployment rate, which is about 10 to 11% today. Our goal together with coalition partners is to reduce to 7% and be safe in 4 years when we win the election again that one of the reasons for this will be that we will halve the polling rate of unemployment and that is what Mr. Representative Cain talked about. And let me get this straight. I call on the High House to re-represent that trust to the government that I have proposed. I'm proud to say these words, because that's what the voter wants. We are here today the product of what the voters decided on November 25th. I call on all those who benefit from Croatia to the benefit of all Croatian citizens to raise their hands for this programme. In this program and you're right when you say, not everything is listed what and how we're going to do, not all the instruments, not all the dates are put up, etc. But it can't be part of the program. We have ministries that will each develop their own program of action and it will be full of more than these 100 pages of overall government action. I repeat once again, an important component of the Government programme is our agreements, that is, what we will do, which we have expressed through agreements with representatives of national minorities and through an agreement with HSU but also with the main coalition partners to the HSS coalition, HSLS, which I once again thank together for a very correct, very constructive approach, and if for some time it has been worth waiting because it is better to sacrifice a few days more than the other way around. I am sure we are entering a period of fruitful cooperation among coalition partners for the benefit of all Croatian citizens. As future prime minister, because I hope you will vote in favour of this government and ministers, I would like to promise you that we will be the Government of all Croatian citizens regardless of political orientation, regardless of who elected whom and political preferences. We will be the Government of all Croatian parts, we want equal development of Croatian areas, we want to raise special areas of special state concern economically to a higher level of development, we want to complete the infrastructure and we want to bring Croatia into the European Union and NATO together with you from the opposition. It was a referendum for NATO today. I don't think it's necessary to re-expand the debate, but I'll say it one more time. And in our programme with which we have made it very clear to Croatian citizens, we have clearly said that the Croatian Constitution does not foresee, or commits, it can be said, does not commit Croatian politics, Croatian state leadership to the referendum when it comes to NATO because we do not carry our share of sovereignty as in the case of the European Union, then we will suggest that the Croatian Parliament vote on it. So there won't be a referendum on NATO. If it were a referendum on NATO, we would be in danger of what is already over, which is almost certain, I can't guarantee it here for you, but I can say that according to everything I've done so far, and I have discussed that it is quite certain that we will get an invitation early April 2nd to April 4th at the NATO summit in Bucharest. We work together on this, I invite you to work together these three months, even less than three months, to finish this and get Croatia an invitation. It will be a great incentive for all of us in Croatia to speed up negotiations with the European Union, to complete them if possible in the next year, and thus to achieve this goal in 2009 to discuss it with the European Parliament, confirm the contract, etc. Ambitious, but together we can accomplish it. Therefore, I thank you for the debate as Prime Minister on behalf of and as representative of the coalition majority, be sure that each of your proposals will be considered, that if it is good and for the general good of Croatian people that we will accept it. But you must understand that the parliamentary majority has its own programme. You criticized him today, we heard some good things and some praises, but in any case, that program will be the next government program. I thank the coalition partners once again and look forward to working on the general good in Croatia. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u396	Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u397	Mr President, Rule 219 of the Rules of Procedure in conjunction with Article 214(1), paragraph 6 has been injured, as the Secretary-General of the sitting falls short of the general rules of conduct in this Assembly. I ask you, Mr. President, to warn the secretary to refrain from showing up, political preferences by which it seems obvious and came to that place after Mrs. Blažević was resolved and to warn him, please remind him that these things are no longer being handled. Or simply by an emergency procedure, you can establish an opposition secretary's institute to sit on your left.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u398	Thank you very much or what? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u399	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I wouldn't be able to speak, but on the trail of what Mrs. Anticevic said. Indeed, Mr. President, this is inappropriate from our new secretary. He should be warned not to, as she would say, express her political preferences. It is not correct, it is not common and it is simply unnecessary in this way to share representatives, positions and opposition from professional services. It is not appropriate, nor today's moment as much as he is grateful to you for putting him in that place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u400	I expected that after the presentation of the terms of office in this Croatian Parliament we would not spoil the general impression. And that's why I'm closing the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been established that the government is on duty when it is trusted by most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established to vote in favour of the Government's proposal as a whole. I would like to vote on the proposal of the mandater to show confidence to the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as proposed by the Prime Minister. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes of 82 votes in favour, 62 against and no abstentions expressed confidence to the Prime Minister Dr. [[Applause.]] Evey Sanader, members of the government, vice presidents and ministers. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, the Vice-Presidents of the Government and all the ministers and wish for successful and effective work. And now, ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence to the President and the members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for the President and the members of the Government to be sworn in. This appropriation is intended to The Rules of Procedure have been established in the manner in which the oath is made. According to that article, the president pronounces the text of the oath, and afterwards he names the members of the government who stand up and say, "I swear." So we're going to take the oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably the duties of a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order and advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Dr. Sc. Ivo Sanader, President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia – I swear, Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity – I swear, Damir Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship – I swear, Đurđa Adlešić, Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia – I swear, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Zelec, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia – I swear, Gordan Jandroković, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration – I swear, Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance – I swear, Branko Vukelić, Minister of Defence – I swear, Berislav Roncevic, Minister of Interior – I swear, Ana Lovrin, Minister of Justice – I swear, Bozidar Kalmeta, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure – I swear, Mr. sc. Bozidar Pankretic, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development – I swear to you, Marina Matulović Dropulić, Minister of Environment Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction – I swear to you, Master General Darko Milinović, Minister of Health and Social Care – I swear to you, Professor Dragan Primorac, Minister of Science, Education and Sports – I swear, Master Božo Biskupić, Minister of Culture – I swear, Petar Cobanković, Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy – I swear Damir Bajs, Minister of Tourism - I swear. [[Applause.]] I ask the MPs to remain in the assembly because the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is the item of the agenda, is the debate on the request for the term of office of Deputy Representative Bozidar Pankretić and the launch of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Boris Klemenic. [[Applause]] We also have a selection of the Committee on Foreign Policy in the Croatian Parliament. And I'm setting a 10-minute break. And there is a session in the hall "Stepan Radića" room number 133 in the building of the Croatian Parliament. So a break of 10 minutes. We've got enough MPs. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to agenda three. We have two cases here to say so. The first item in the report is in the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, directed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to grant authorisation for the detention and further conduct and launch of criminal proceedings against the accused representative Branimir Glavas, representative at the Croatian Parliament. I ask the President of Mr. Sesvecan's commission to brief the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u402	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will, however, read the Report on the request of the State Attorney's Office in Zagreb sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to grant approval for the detention and follow-up of the criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas at the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission at today's session discussed the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb from 11 January 2008 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 11 January 2008 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of detention and follow-up of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas in the Croatian Parliament because of the criminal proceedings against the defendant Branimir Glavas for the criminal offence referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. The commission found that the decisions of the Croatian Parliament of 11 May 2006 and 22 November 2006 authorised the initiation of the criminal proceedings. It also found that the Croatian Parliament's decisions of 22 November 2006 approved detention. How in accordance with Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity from the day of the Croatian Parliament's establishment until the end of the parliamentary term and since Mr Branimir Glavas was re-elected as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and the establishment of the Parliament of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has referred the request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for re-determination of the authorisation for detention and follow-up of the criminal proceedings. The debate was attended by Damir Sesvečan, Arsen Bauk, Ratko Gajica, Ivan Hanžek, Zivko Nenadić, Gordana Sobol and Dr Vladimir Šišljagic, therefore members of the commission. It was noted in the debate that by denying authorisation for detention, it would not affect the work of the court or the final outcome of the court proceedings but would allow the defendant to defend himself better because of the current circumstances. Among other things, the debate stated that it is not necessary to enter into the measure of the matter when deciding to grant an authorisation for detention but rather to enable the competent authorities to make an autonomous decision on detention. The opinion is also voiced that there are no obstacles to giving counsel Branimir Glavas freedom. As regards the request for further handling of the proceedings, the Commission assessed that the judicial authorities should be allowed to proceed without delay. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate, proposes to the Croatian Assembly to make a decision by majority vote 5 for and 4 against. The text of the decision reads: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for detention against Agent Branimir Glavas shall be denied in the conduct of the criminal proceedings for the criminal offence referred to in Article 120. The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia at the request of the County State Attorney's Office sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia." The second part of the decision was found unanimously by the Commission, which reads: "There are no constitutional and legal reasons as set out in Article 75(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be approved for the further conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the criminal proceedings for the work referred to in Article 120. The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia." Recital: The Commission has decided to suspend the authorisation of detention against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb for the conduct of criminal proceedings for the initiation of the criminal offence referred to in Article 120(1). The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia, deeming it necessary to enable the defendant to defend himself from freedom because it cannot affect the outcome of the proceedings. As it is a criminal offence for which the Commission has taken the view that it will propose the abolition of immunity to MPs and given that judicial institutions should be allowed to carry out the procedure uninterruptedly, the Commission has proposed to grant authorisation for the further conduct of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u403	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u404	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. There's no one from the government but there's no reason not to congratulate them again on the election. In some ways I dare say we're becoming an orderly state today. We're talking a little bit about ZERP and these kinds of topics that are now up. We've mostly talked about economy, prices, decentralisation, health care, corruption, the rule of law, which means we're becoming a regulated state, and in four years, we're certainly not going to talk about any of these issues as they are on the agenda today. The Glava case, what I want to say, I've never experienced in a political process, I've never experienced in a mounted process, even though it's a statement from the interior minister or the chief of police at some point that there's been a lot of politics in the background. Because who can, like, play Mr. Faber with pardons in the case of Anna Maria Getosh, who has the rights as we saw in that video to direct testimony. The question is whether it is a common practice because if someone behaves like this in one of the most prominent judicial cases in Croatia, what is only done to other people. I'd say hunting with the Marker was a scandal, and what Mr. Faber did was embarrassing the system. Why do I say hunting is a scandal? Because it was a public secret to break, I don't know, the Hague decisions that confirm the hunt, some generals, but what Mr. Faber did suggests that in one part of the case, Glavas was also behind the policy that Fabera sent there, and we all welcomed Faber at first moment "vis avis" of his role there from the mid-1990s. Let's remember those articles in the media: "Professor", "Sensed are subjective" and so on. And now he orders even the testimonies, and as I read in one text from Mr. Pukanic, even someone should have made a mistake with Glavas and rape. The message of this Parliament must be as Tito was towards Tudjman. Don't pack, don't pack. Stay out of this case. Don't prejudge judgment decisions like our prime minister did a few days ago. The second thing I'm trying to say, Mr. Glavas, is that we know he left HDZ. Between him and Mr. Shakespeare, there was a political reason, a divergence. It is also true that perhaps Mr. Shakespeare knew what was happening in Osijek on the days that Osijek heroically defended itself, when Osijek fought back, but also when some citizens took justice into their own hands, and then did what they did on the Drava. Those involved must not be political but criminally accountable. The war crime does not go out of date, and if the Croatian judiciary sanctions the misdemeanor it will help Croatia, it will help Croatian credibility. It will help position the state as a rule of law. In 2006, I represented the thesis that the Glavas case had left the international community with the aim of testing Croatian credibility. What the prime minister did rightly freed us from the Hague court's mortgages is what I confess to him, although some of his party comrades may have gotten us into it before that. But without sanctioning those who have done so, the sacrifice of those who have laid down their lives in the Homeland War will not always be with us but beyond this country may be appreciated as it should be appreciated. They'll always be with us. I'm not going to convince some testimony in the case of "Garaza" or "Slotep" as a sign of the vow of silence of what we had the opportunity to listen to on TV. It was shot in the wounded body and then one said, "No, I shot over the head" and so on. Not to mention some other testimony about self-bombing some cities and so on. Clearly, there will be no courts in The Hague, nor will the Croatian courts write the truth about the Homeland War. But their truth is to clearly sanction every crime. It's clear that we're talking about the Glavas case here. The IDS is for removing immunity, when we were in late 2006 and we were also in favour of a decision on the authorisation of detention and the initiation of a criminal procedure which seemed to have been made to me in 2007. As much in those same positions as most at the time of this Parliament, we remain today. I agree absolutely with the case Glavas was a very, very political one. I remember that play here in 2006 was first made one decision so under pressure outside that decision was applied, changed and detention was determined. I know some have feared that something might happen to Mr. Glavas. I'm sorry, I don't want anything. If that were to happen, he would become a myth, but as it is necessary to fight for the presumptions of innocence, the Croatian Parliament, in particular the Parliament, and then the Croatian judiciary must not fall under the act of any blackmail or hunger strike. And that's the point. Everyone in this country needs to get a fair trial. Everyone is innocent of the power of judgment, but neither can the Parliament be blackmailed. To be honest with me, it's wrong for all of this to happen. It's my fault that Glavas is in violation of his health. I'm sorry he got into this situation. It's my fault that the church did time a few months ago or weeks ago pressure on politics, but I don't think this House should capitulate in front of anyone, and if we change the 2006 Decision or 2007 decision, then literally this case would suggest that the case of Glavas is from the first moment political rather than the issue of functioning, the functioning of the rule of law. The true new convocation today can do whatever it wants, but even this Assembly of States can't turn I'll say it openly into a Glavas joke. If any hunger strike can force this Parliament to change its decision or I don't know, then some other body is this House and this state and this body is without authority. If, even though I admit it, that's what I should say, there are in this country defendants who are defending themselves for war crimes and defending themselves from freedom. If there are any and there are others, it's a shame. And now I'm going to mention some because I was talking about it when I was talking about it in front of this club a year ago. For example Milan Salic, Tenzic Vlasimir, Lazar Vidic, Zoran Kecman. And that I don't count any further on which custody was suspended until they were even arrested. But I repeat, as Drava should never have been a tomb so clearly no one could in any name impose any crime. I know that Glavas organized a defense in Osijek among other things. That's why he was rewarded by the rank of generals, medals, apartments. Did he commit any misdemeanors it's not ours but it's in court. So once again when you're asking me to cut it short, I don't know which time I'm going to say it, we're going to stay in the same positions that we were in 2006 and 2007, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u405	Thank you. Injury, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u406	The breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of the fact that, in a large part of his exposure to the club, Mr Cain actually spoke, missed the subject. He was actually talking about something completely different that's beyond the context of the agenda. This is about the request of the State Attorney's Office on the Mandate-Immunity Commission report in the particular case of Glavas, and Mr Cain really did not keep it in front of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u407	Thank you very much. I personally think that we've discussed this, that there's no need to open some debates. We here need to make a statement on the proposal submitted by the State Attorney's Office on the conversion, i.e. on the follow-up of the procedure. That's why I think we should respect this proposal that Mr. Šišljagić is, but please. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a representative and vice president, Mr. Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u408	I suppose it's about the inaccuracies of my colleague Cain. You said earlier that by referring to me, that I knew about, but knew in terms of knowledge of something that was covered and with criminal acts that were happening in Osijek. It was so said that it could give you the possibility of such interpretation from your speech. That's why I have to react through this institute of false allegations, with any knowledge that you've thought about it. I am a witness in this process, proposed as a witness, I can't speak here right now, I haven't spoken all this time, and I can't agree to stay hanging in the air and such an interpretation and the possibility that I knew of some possible crimes and that some forms and my responsibilities would follow. I was president of the Eastern Croatian crisis headquarters, from Baranja to Vukovar, Osijek, Brod, Vinkovac all the way to Nova Gradiška etc. but one is knowledge, the other are circumstances of knowledge and knowledge of concrete information. So I'm asking you to refer precisely to that because I don't want that situation to stay in the air hanging that I knew something about some criminal acts or criminal acts and that would be it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u409	Thank you very much. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u410	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm reporting for the first time today, and just deeply esteeming the speeches of colleagues of Cain who I've had the opportunity to listen to earlier, exactly his consistency always, I would now correct his incorrect claim, because there's no right to pack it for anyone before the competent institutions determine it. Therefore, by not stopping at this point in defense of anyone or his fellow Faber police or anyone else, I would only pray that on the very mark of the presumption of innocence wait to determine who was packing to whom in the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u411	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Šišljagic, he also asked for a correction of the incorrect allegations, so let's allow him later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u412	So let me get this straight. Mr. Chief, you've been on a hunger strike for a little over two months. So he could not even know what kind of court would make the decision, so he had no idea that there would be a question of his immunity in this session at all. It is therefore deplaced to claim that Mr. Glavas is blackmailing the Parliament, so the Parliament really has nothing to do with this hunger strike, and the least blackmail. And another one. Mr. Glavas has all the merits not to defend Osijek and Slavonia but also to the whole of Croatia, but to be awarded that he was rewarded by the general act he deserved and that the award to the apartments is absolutely I think he deserves no comment, but it really is wrong, Mr. Cain. Mr. Glavas was not rewarded with any apartments, no general act, he deserved the act in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u413	Thank you very much. Now it is Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic's turn on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u414	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I'll only limit myself to the scale that's our parliamentary committee's proposal, the commission. It's just two questions, immunity issues for prosecution and immunity for detention. It should not even be reminded that this House has already decided and many are of the opinion that it should not have been re-determined, but here is the court's request, and we simply have to do so after the court's decision. This is not a question of whether Mr. Glavas should be tried, whether he should be detained, or whether he should be punished, we are not engaged or allowed to deal with it here, but the only question is whether this Parliament will, should, may use the possibility given to him by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to limit or prevent the prosecution of a person in particular in this case by General Glavas. In view of the first part, therefore, of whether or not to continue, it is not in fact to take action but to continue the prosecution of the SDP's Club of Representatives that supports the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is precisely why, starting with the purpose of immunity, the purpose is not to protect someone from prosecution but is an essential original purpose in order to prevent chicaneous treatment against someone who is accused of a criminal offence. As far as the second part of a possible detention is concerned, I repeat the SDP club once again, and none of us individually advocates detention or detention, it's none of our business, it's the court's affairs. However, here we do not support the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, not particularly with an explanation which is as it is and which is measurable, which says in its saying that, the argument is that, therefore, it is proposed to maintain immunity against detention, believing that the defendant should be given defence from freedom because this cannot affect the outcome of the criminal proceedings. It is a measuring decision that only a court can make with such an expression, and we believe that this goes beyond the framework of Parliament's decision-making. Our decision can only be political, it could be in terms of giving immunity may be different, but I say such a quantifiable decision through our court imploding in constitutional division of power, indulging in the independence of the judiciary, and after we are here as principles of conduct and government, and also in this House that we will respect the independence of the judiciary to engage in such a decision, we feel that this is not right. One word we don't support this decision. In fact, it would be best if the Mandate-Immunity Commission reconsidered its proposal, but if the conditions for voting were met then the SDP Club would support the Commission's proposal to conduct the procedure, but unfortunately, as the opposite of the Constitution, and the idea of immunity as such cannot support the proposal for detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u415	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u416	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As President-in-Office of the Parliament said, this is a question this House has already discussed and a question in which this House has made measurement decisions and the reason for this debate is on the one hand to seek a court, but there would be no reason to argue that the Mandate-Immunity Commission in this case did not propose that the Assembly amend the decision it has already made on this case. What's this about? There's a court in the middle of a trial. What changed circumstances? The only changed circumstance is the fact that there were elections and that it is now a new Parliament. If this were not by chance, if the time-different relationship between the conduct of the procedure and the call for a new call for Parliament had not been discussed, and this would not have been put back on the agenda at all, these issues that Parliament has discussed and decided on have been decided by it. I remind you that when the Parliament made both of these decisions, and in particular the decision relating to the possibility of the court to decide, therefore giving freedom or the possibility of the court to decide whether or not to be detained, in the view of the court to detain Branimir Glavas, the argument was that it was a decision that the Parliament could not make. The parliament is not authorized, it is not within the scope of the legislative authority to decide whether a court can or cannot detain. It's the court's decision. What we're deciding today, and we've already decided once in this House, is not whether the Glavas should or should not be detained. This House only decides whether or not it gives the court the right and opportunity to decide in accordance with what the court thinks it is necessary to decide. These are the arguments in the last debate, and most of Parliament is then who was also HDZ and coalition partners most of them, is then with these arguments and accepting these arguments, therefore it is only about allowing the court to decide not to detain or detain, but that Parliament cannot assume that responsibility on itself, and there is neither constitutional authority nor the right to take decisions that a court can make. Since circumstances and even in reasons do not indicate that any circumstances have changed in this regard, it is today only today that it respects its own decisions, or respects the decisions it has already made in this regard. And in this regard, the proposal for decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is different from the one which was last time and different from those already taken by this Assembly. The HNS Club will stick to Parliament's decision, of course, and the trioties of the authorities and the powers that belong to this Parliament will not turn this Parliament into a courtroom and make judicial decisions, but of course it will not limit the court's right to decide in accordance with its judgment. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission concerning the removal of the mandate, which allows for further proceedings and will not support the second proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission relating to the prejudgment of the court's decision on the possibility of putting Branimir Glavas in custody or not while the trial is being held, because we believe that this is the decision to be left to the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u417	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u418	Mrs Pusic says that from the time before the parliament's decision to date, there have been no more recent circumstances, i.e. that the only new circumstance is that parliamentary elections were held in the meantime. It's not the only new environment. The new circumstance is that local elections are being followed in Osijek, so perhaps the fact hides the secret sudden changes to the HDZ majority's decision on the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u419	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u420	Mr. President. I'm correcting the same assumption. counterpart Pusic said that the only change is that it is the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament, which is not true. Because the change is also that the investigation has been completed long ago, the change is that all witnesses are being investigated and the main public debate is already under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u421	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u422	Thank you very much. Therefore, the circumstances of the correction of the incorrect claim have not been changed. There's been a change of circumstances. So the fact that the new immunity and the fact that only the State's Attorney's Office has asked for the Parliament's opinion and decision on detention speaks sufficiently of the circumstances having changed. However, it may not be the most important thing to do with circumstances. Mr. Glavas has been in custody for 14 months. The investigation has been completed. He's in the middle of a major debate right now. Mr. Glavas gave a very comprehensive, detailed defense. He answered all the questions of the participants in the main debate phase. None of the six suspects who gave up their defenses burdened him. So these are very important facts and significantly changed circumstances from one year ago when it was made in this House the same or similar decision discussed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u423	Thank you very much. Mr. Anto Djapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u424	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I feel obliged to speak a few words about this report and the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And I believe that, practically after the Croatian Government's election, this is the first serious political decision that the Croatian Parliament makes, and I absolutely support this proposal from the Commission. Namely, as counterpart Cain said, he remained in the same positions 14 months ago, I remain in the same positions as myself and the Croatian Party of Rights who, at the time, considered it sufficient to allow the removal of immunity for the initiation and conduct of the procedure without having the right reason for determining detention. In Croatia, there is indeed, and we are trying to make this existence as pronounced as possible when the government in Croatia is tripled, in which the judiciary and the judiciary have the right or the State's attorney's office to apply to the Croatian Parliament for the removal of immunity to an individual parliamentary representative, but the Croatian Parliament, like any Parliament in the world, has the right to respond in the way he considers it politically justified. 14 months is really a lot in life and individuals, especially when it comes to the situation in which fellow Glavas was involved. In any case, you all know that in political relations with his parties and the Croatian parties the rights are very strict relations between us personally, but that is why I believe when we return 14 months back that we could have avoided 'in the Croatian public, in the city of Osijek, in Slavonia, Baranja, many painful situations, very dramatic. I would say a stressful situation in which the citizens of Osijek lived for 14 months, which could have really been avoided 'that we made a decision 14 months ago as it is today. Because whenever we talk about Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues and war crimes committed in Croatia and during the aggression on Croatia and during the Homeland War as the Declaration of the Homeland War speaks, then, in any case, there are always strong but really strong political implications because fellow Cain mentioned what we all know is being conducted in Croatia and war crimes processes without all indictees and detention. In general, I think that from this case called the Colloquial Case "Heading" we need to get out I'd say all the pretty strong lessons. I didn't... that the general processes for war crimes are in a way I would say treated for processes, but that Croatian indictees as well as Serbians in Croatia are not necessarily in custody, because it has been 15, 16 years, at least 12 years since the start of possible war crimes or war crimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there is indeed no, unless there is a danger of pressure on witnesses and the possibility of escape, but that the severity of the crime should not be a key element for determining detention. All of these, all of what was happening around the case "Glass" believe that for two years I was almost fully involved in this event, in the process, in the psychosis that ruled both in the city of Osijek and as mayor of Osijek and in some other situations. It could've been done a lot differently. Mr. Glavas did not avoid his responsibility to appear before the court, to defend himself against the charges if he who accuses has the burden of proving his claims, that he could have been treated in a different way, more dignifiedly, more correctly, and more honestly, according to that case. And all in the context and relationships to the Homeland War. Today we also saw in the Croatian Government programme that it will act in its action to protect the Homeland War and all those values. So we also think that this is a different approach and relationship and these processes that we also have to work on. In any case, the good news is that today we adopt this proposal of the conclusions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and that Mr. Glavas is defending himself with freedom in a process in which he has already been deeply, deeply trampled. But I don't think I'm really spreading the subject right now because this is just about Mr. Glavas' case, so it would be good, because they've already given virtually all the defendants the Selotep case, so that all the defendants are released so that they can end this trial, and then what kind of a justice is a judicial one. Guilty, not guilty, free, not free. But you should really do something about it. I'll do it one more time... its satisfaction with this proposal for a decision of the Mandate Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will represent him as a Croatian party of rights on her behalf and support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u425	Thank you. No more reports. I put to the vote the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who is for this decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is a unique decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Proposed knowledge of this procedure is accepted. I'm putting the proposal first. During the term of office, authorisation for detention against Agent Branimir Glavas shall be denied in the conduct of the criminal proceedings referred to in Article 120. Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia at the request of the County State Attorney's Office sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that with 81 votes for, 49 against and 3 abstentions this proposal has been accepted as I read it. Second proposal for a conclusion: It is established that there are no constitutional and legal grounds for Article 75(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be approved for the further conduct and initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the criminal proceedings referred to in Article 120. Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? One. I find that with one vote, 132 votes were abstentioned to accept this second proposal. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to explain the second point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u426	Mr. President. So, we have a report on the start of the stand-off of Deputy Representative Boris Klemnic's representative, Mr Bozidar Pankretić, and the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Boris Klemnic. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 3rd session held on 12 January 2008 the notice of the coalition of the Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance, which informed the commission that it was in accordance with Article 9. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament because of the incompatibility of the minister's duties, which he was appointed to with the MP, began the rest of the parliamentary mandate and that his deputy Boris Klemenic would act instead. As Mr Pankretic was elected representative as candidate on the list of the Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Social-Liberal Party and the Primorsko-Gorski Alliance in VII. the electoral unit of the coalition of the Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Primorje-Gorskian Alliance, and in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, has determined that Mr Boris Klemenic as deputy representative in that election unit begins to act as a representative instead of the representative of the Master of Božidar Pankretic. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Deputy Deputy Representative Boris Klemenic's parliamentary term of office as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of the parliamentary post of Deputy Representative Boris Klemenic. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of the term of office of MPs and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 12 January 2008, it shall be established that the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Deputy Director Božidar Pankretić and that the agent's duties in accordance with Article 9(2) shall be settled. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 12 January 2008 began to act as Deputy Representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u427	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving this proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission for the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I note that Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic's representative's duties have begun. I'm asking Mr. Representative to and to swear here at the Parliament. Following a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out pursuant to Article 7. etc. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mr. Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u428	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u429	Thank you very much. Congratulations to Representative Boris Klemenić and I wish him successful work in the Croatian Parliament. We also have the next item of the Committee's agenda for selection, appointment and administrative affairs. I ask Mrs. President Nevenko Majdenic to explain the proposal for the election of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u431	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly held on 12 January 2008 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Mario Zubović, Vice President Tonino Picula, members Frano Matušić, Jerko Rosin, Marija Pejcinović-Burić, Željana Kalaš, Krešimir Ćosić, Milorad Pupovac, Vesna Pusić, Mirjana Ferić-Vac, Romana Jerković, Marin Jurjevic and Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-12-0.u432	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I present this proposal to the Committee on Elections and Votings. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I note that the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament has been elected as read by the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Appointing. With this item on the agenda, I conclude this extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. I want you to rest well and prepare for further efforts to work in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
