ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15488	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, before you is the draft of the Credit Institutions Act. So on table one, we at the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, love and we want to say actually one of the central laws in the financial market for this year and in general. Why? First of all, because the law regulates the area of business of credit institutions currently regulated by the 2002 and 2006 Banks Act. The Law on Credit Institutions repeals the existing Banks Act and achieves full compliance of banking legislation with European Union legislation. First of all, it should be said that it is about harmonising with directives, about the adequateness of capital, that is, the need for capital. In addition, the directive aimed at facilitating the process of taking over companies, and also this Credit Institutions Act implements other directives that make it the most important to regulate the issue of reorganisation, liquidation, bankruptcy of credit institutions. In addition to harmonising with European legislation, the Credit Institutions Act is also the result of critical reviewing and recasting of the Banks Act in light of previous experience. It implements, among other things, the relevant amendments to other laws which have recently changed, which affect banking operations. I'll just mention some of them. These are the Company Act, Accounting Act, the Audit Act, and so are many others. As the most significant amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, the changes resulting from the implementation of the highest banking standard should also be highlighted, i.e. Basel II, which primarily refers to more detailed risk management and risk management, allows the credit institution to use its own models to calculate capital requirements, the obligation to assess the adequateness of internal capital and public disclosure. In order to avoid the release of a significant amount of capital for further credit expansion, the above-mentioned liberalisation would also not lead to a higher required guarantee capital adequateness rate which, unlike the existing 10%, would be 12%. This further strengthens the stability of the banking system. It should also be said that the new law requires the administration to ensure the business of a credit institution in accordance with the law and rules of the profession and introduces a system of warnings resulting from the withdrawal of the approval of a member of the administration in the event of non-compliance with supervisory measures. For the purpose of further empowerment of credit institutions, an obligation to organise an internal control system is prescribed which includes, inter alia, the organisation of three control functions. These are risk control functions, compliance monitoring functions and internal audit functions. Due to the emphasis on risks, the role of the Croatian National Bank in the supervisory role of credit institutions is also specified, and following the example of other European countries following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the introduction of a supervisory fee is envisaged. Due to the relations that the Croatian National Bank has been building with the banking industry for years, it also foresees the possibility that supervisory measures should not be imposed solely by formal measure in the form of a solution, but also by a less formal measure, by an understanding agreement. The law also provides for the possibility to appoint, if necessary, a Commissioner who would directly monitor the implementation of supervisory measures, with a supervisory measure or a liquidity loan in a credit institution. A particular emphasis, what should be said is on consumer protection where, in addition to the obligation to employ credit institutions to deal with consumer complaints, the role of the Croatian National Bank in the segment is specified. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say that the law enters into force on 1 January 2009, however, because of the significant news it brings into the area of capital adequateness, a period of 6 months is envisaged to comply with these chapters of the law. During that time, the relevant provisions of the Bank Act and the regulations adopted under that law will be in force for those areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15489	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15490	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 15th session held on 16 September 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law on credit institutions with the final draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 28 August 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it on the basis of Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Law in question as a home working body and supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopt this law by an urgent procedure, since it harmonises Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Credit Institutions Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15491	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15492	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Money and banking together make up one of the most important, interesting and fascinating topics in the social area of the economy. This is primarily because money and banking have a direct and indirect impact on all economic operators, on their efficiency and efficiency, and therefore on the behaviour of the national economy, i.e. on the overall level of economic activity that is ultimately most easily reflected in the gross domestic product. The importance of money and banking is most easily highlighted by the fact that money is a means of exchange, that money is a measure of value and that money is a means of preserving value. Therefore, there is no need to be surprised at the need to continue to perfect the legal framework for money and banking, since it is precisely the efficiency of this legal environment that depends on the efficiency of the national economy, and thus the level of achievement in all social spheres. Because of this exceptional impact of money and banking on overall economic activity, it is very important in an optimal way to regulate the legal framework in which credit institutions will operate. It is not surprising, therefore, that the most powerful financial market in the United States has repeatedly changed the legal framework for the operation of credit institutions. For example, in the United States in 1980, they passed the Law on the Deregulation of Depositary Institutions and Monetary Control, and only two years after the US Congress passed the Law on Deposit Institutions, responding to a large number of bankruptcys of savings and savings banks. In 1993, however, the Republic of Croatia passed the Law on Banks and Savings, and after the adoption of two other laws on banks and one addition to the law, the aim was to remove non-compliance with the legal property of the European Union in the field of savings and credit unions. During the implementation of the three laws on banks, the Croatian banking system passed a turbulent period and a period of permanent transformation. In particular, the impressive changes in the banking system were primarily conversion and privatisation, then the collapse of 15 banks and savings banks, and finally, the recovery and sale of banks, so that today 90.41% of the total activity of the banking system is owned by foreign owners. The strong impact of the financial market was best felt at the beginning of this year when the US and, consequently, the global financial market experienced the least pronounced intense crisis. Two of America's top five investment banks went bankrupt. The same fate would have happened to the third if it hadn't been saved by the emergency sale of the commercial bank of Bank of America. In America, there are only two major investment banks "Golden Sax" and "Morgan Stanley", but they are also looking for a strategic partner, or more specifically a rescue partner. Today, it makes different decisions and a high degree of destruction as a result of financial crises both in the world and in ours. Just one day after US authorities emergencyed the American International Group, one of the world's largest insurance houses, stock prices on Wall Street went down to the lowest levels, so only in one day the price of the Golden Sax company fell by 14% and Morgan Stanley by 24%. If the American International Group had failed, the damage would have been estimated at $180 billion. The American International Group has avoided the worst financial failures by accepting $85 billion in federal loans and handing over a majority stake in the company to the government. In favour of the state, AIG gave up 79.9% of its stakes, and its senior managers, including the chief executive director, had to leave their jobs. A two-year loan of $85 billion "American International Groups" gives time for regular sale of assets. Saving the AIG, which has approved trillion dollars for banks around the world in as many as 130 countries to secure loans. The US Central Bank argues that it saved the world from spreading the financial infection and having a negative impact on the wider economy and protected the interest of the US State and taxpayers. For all these reasons, the need for a legal framework for the need for the highest supervisory standard is seen. Known Italian politicians... Mancini said back in the 19th century that every law must express general aspirations, that every law must promote the benefit of all and that every law must correspond to national interests. The HDZ Club absolutely and unreservedly supports this bill, because it is clear and enforceable and because it is indeed an expression of the tendency to promote the general benefit and expression of the effort to satisfy the general national interests. This proposed law on credit institutions of the HDZ Club is absolutely and unconditionally supportive of the fact that its adoption is necessary and the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, and its consistent implementation and guarantee that it will provide lasting stability of the banking system that will easily withstand any moderate macroeconomic disturbances. This proposed law regulates the conditions for the establishment, business and termination of the work of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, but also the supervisory of the business of credit institutions and the conditions under which legal persons established and for the Republic of Croatia can provide banking and financial services in the Republic of Croatia. This proposed law defines the credit institution as an institution which, under the conditions laid down by this law, can form as a bank with a underlying capital of at least 40 million kuna, as a savings bank with a share capital of at least 8 million kuna, as a housing savings facility with a share capital of at least 20 million kuna or as an electronic money institution. This proposed law also ensures a smooth implementation of the single European passport on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and under the influence of the European initiative to equate the process of taking over and joining credit institutions resulting from the adoption of Directive 2007/46, the criteria applied on the occasion of the processing of the requirement to obtain an advanced share as well as the procedure which significantly shortens the deadlines in which the application must be processed. It is important to note that the adoption of the proposed Credit Institutions Act continues to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union, and that no additional funding from the state budget is necessary to implement this law. At the same time, it should also be pointed out that this bill is in line with the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Bank Association. The truth is that the government did not accept several amendments to the Croatian Banking Association, but which were not essential but were more based on possible cost savings for banks. This Final Proposal for a Law on credit institutions of the HDZ Club considers it to be another legal refreshment in Croatian legislation and will therefore vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15493	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15494	Good afternoon. Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The country's credit institution law where 70% of economic growth is based on credit, based on consumption, has special importance. In a country where there is never less coverage from exports, where since 99, there is never a smaller liquidity present, in a country where people are in charge of personal consumption, and half a million people live below the poverty line, where there is a decline and investment in the construction sector, where both debt and real estate prices have started to fall due to higher interest rates and where the number of loans for personal consumption began to grow. In the same country, banks made a record profit in the past year and year after year. This information is more important for Croatian citizens if we read from the introduction of the laws ourselves that 90.41% of banking assets are owned by foreign banks. However, these are also world trends and I would return to the bill itself. What the SDP Club welcomes in the light of this law is compliance with Directive 2048.capital requiations directive that for necessity adopts a framework for the introduction of this greatest supervisory standard, Basel 2 standards, and in light of the best world experiences, but I will say something about them later. It also introduces Directive 2001/24 tv. “windig up” Directive and the reshaping of the Banks Act itself in light of the changes and the light of the experiences that occurred in this banking sector. The introduction of the CNB supervisor is also welcomed, it is the introduction of additional regulation and I personally would not want to believe, but the question will be answered by one of the state secretaries, whether the cost of additional regulation will go to the burden of the end-user, means the burden of those who use the banking sector's services. That's what's always an open question. However, between not having good regulation and having regulation in this sense, I am in any case in favour of this better regulation and I think that monetary policy in that part and the Croatian National Bank is doing everything in its power to maintain the stability of the Croatian financial market. Unfortunately, other problems are, monetary policy cannot solve economic policy problems. The Croatian National Bank cannot solve export problems. So I have already said that export coverage has been at the lowest level in recent years, and it is fascinating that only in this year alone, this year alone, has never been less production growth 2.8% in the last 9 years, and therefore the necessity of regulatory credit institutions is one of the most important things that today, and that in the coming months will fill both the media and create an interest of the general public. We also support and exchange data from debtors means as some new measures that should actually create the necessary frameworks for making banking work better in the sector. However, what we must warn ourselves about and what we will warn now and in the coming months, the law itself will come into force. The law enters into force in 1.1.2009, however, certain provisions of that law, such as that, mean that it could be implemented through banks to calculate the adequateness of capital moving from 10 to 12% will enter into force from 1 July 2009. And now, in light of the change in the banking system, we actually have a law that enters into force on 1 July 2009, and part of 1 July 2009, and I see no reason why the whole law could not enter into force on 1 July 2009. Perhaps the reason is that because of the turbulent changes that will follow by the introduction of this law, this law, and some of my ministry colleagues' replies, will make some more changes, means that they will experience some more changes and complements. Furthermore, the stability of the banking system that defends the adequateness of capital 12%, I must admit that it will do so that certain small banks in Croatia, which are also owned by citizens, will. owned, owned, Croatian-owned, must experience recapitalisation means connecting with some banks outside. So, de facto this directive i.e. This provision on the adequateness of capital to 12% is the fact that some banks will push into the necessity of capitalisation or the necessity to merge with a larger bank, a simple dictionary said to be sold to a larger bank. I expressed concern about one more thing that I said at the beginning, which is the cost of additional regulation. We welcome the introduction of CNB supervisors, the introduction of CNB commissioners, but we do not want and we do not want to believe that these regulations will ultimately go to the expense of end-users, businesses and citizens. And that's what needs to be avoided and that's what we absolutely are against. Because profit, as I said at the outset, is increasing in the banking sector every year and they have no reason to pass that cost on to citizens. However, on the other hand, world regulation and best world practice. I'm here when we talked about the Money Market Act, I said that we adopt all the world directives and best practices by not even knowing what world's best practices are, and we're witnessing that out there using these world-wide practices, using these world-class regulatory banks are failing and failing at a record amount. So, it has never happened that more financial institutions have failed than in this last turbulent time, and we are now introducing those regulations under which these institutions have failed as our regulatory framework. You have had the opportunity, at least those who have been on the Committee on Finance, to receive amendments from the Banks' Association and I would like to place a special emphasis on them especially in the section concerning an independent member of the administration. Therefore, the Bank Association has sent amendments related to the appointment of an independent member of the administration. I do not want to believe that the introduction of an independent member of the administration of a particular credit institution wants to create a space for political corruption. We do not want to believe that and there is no reason for this member to be introduced, there is no reason why this member should not be consistent. in comparison with the Company Act, especially when a member of the CNB is appointed in a given institution. So, either we don't trust the CNB commissioner, and why are we introducing this independent member? I don't want to believe in this home that the introduction of an independent member is a space for certain corruption. Also two provisions that are also controversial with these amendments, which is an authorisation. So by means of procuring to do certain jobs for the bank itself, it's already very well defined by the Company Act and I don't see why one of these additional models is now being introduced for the banks, which is already very well defined by the Commercial Society Act. And there is also the introduction of a supervisory fee from which it is possible, from the reasons the Banks Association also said, to read the necessity of introducing and compensation only when Croatia is in the euro zone, only when Croatia has an official currency of the euro. Here, I want to end up in this debate undermining three things. An independent member is not necessary, nor is his argument good, nor is it well written in this law. I don't want to believe it's a place for political corruption. On the other hand, the entry into force of this law on 1 July 2009 should, in my opinion, answer the question whether, in some ways, this law will experience certain amendments and additions, which is why certain provisions enter into force on 1 July 2009, in particular on 1 July 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15495	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15496	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. When we talk about the Credit Institutions Act, we talk about a law that includes a large majority of Croatian citizens. Let me put it this way, when we talk about certain categories of citizens about 150 thousand Croatian pensioners are users of credit services, the vast majority of employees use credit services in some way. And, of course, it is important to define in this sense the whole market and all those institutions that can operate on that market appropriately. Another fact that is very important is that our banking system in Croatia is largely owned by foreign banks, approximately 90%, 90.41% of the total activity of the banking system is owned by permanent owners. That is why we must have this adequate protection that we have a situation in that market that Croatian citizens will certainly be able to do in a way that protects themselves. What worries, unfortunately because of the situation that is now in part in Croatia only in June of this year, the credit debt of citizens has increased by 1.4 billion kuna. So about a total of Croatian citizens were in charge at that time in Croatia 120 billion kuna. Every citizen on average when we take the number of people living in Croatia, about thirty thousand kuna, each citizen had loans. On the other hand, the bank makes a very good profit. In the first quarter of this year, banks made a profit of 1.4 billion kuna, which is about 6.6% more than in the same quarter last year. And when I say all this, it is clear why we must have a quality law that will in some way allow fair competition in the capital market, but on the other hand it will also protect the vast majority of Croatian citizens who use these services. Unfortunately, I don't know. Is it probably a replica or something? Okay. Unfortunately, Croatian citizens, i.e. in that market during this year, are best placed on what Croatian citizens spend so that they can survive on a daily basis. Regardless of the decrease in Croatian banks' placement compared to last year, Croatian citizens have increased around 15.4% more than last year. On the other hand, Croatian companies, which we call some healthy investment, or where loans would be poured into some production and economic growth, have never been less in debt to 5.8%. On the other hand, it is said that, unfortunately, this debt, i.e. the growth of the plasma banks, does not go into production, does not go into investment, but goes into the consumption of citizens, or in some way they take loans so that they can survive from day to day. That is why I think it is good to pass this law and that the law will take over some positive things from European practice, but I must also warn as my colleague Bernardic said about the uncertainty at the beginning of the application of the law applicable from 01. 01. A lot of provisions will remain in this interspace these half-years that will apply under the old law. So I'd like to ask a little motionary to explain to us this discrepancy in this proposal. Here it is, so much from me, I will support the adoption of this law by this Club of Representatives, because it is in the interest of Croatian citizens to have a settled situation on the capital market, i.e. that the vast majority of Croatian citizens are protected when using credit services. Unfortunately, we have another here for the end, to say the situation which is quite unfavourable, which is to increase deposits in banks, given that there has been an unfavourable situation when investing in securities, most people are selling and investing in the banking sector, i.e. there is an increase in deposits in Croatian banks, and unfortunately there is no possibility of investment in production, or there is no investment in Croatia because of the fact that there is quite an unfavourable economic environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15497	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15498	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In this Proposal for a Law on Credit Institutions with the Final Proposal of the Law not to repeat what my colleagues said on behalf of the SDP Club and now my colleague Maras has said about this law, I want to say something from another aspect. First of all, from the most important aspect of fighting corruption. We all know that an effective fight against corruption, against organised crime, is not possible and in fact remains a dead letter on paper or only that corruption, or that octopus, we rip off a tape, if we don't get into the right tape, a tape of money. Banks must not be closed to processes and even investigations, so before the formal proceedings against such proceedings, against such persons. We are now witnesses before the formal procedure is started in view of the existing provision of keeping secrets, i.e. banking secrets in the existing Banks Act, and I see that even in this law that will unite, and this Law on Banks therefore did not improve this proposal of the Credit Institutions Act in this regard. This concerns first and foremost because this banking secret in this respect and given what I'm talking about, it had to be relativated to the extreme. A successful fight against corruption must reciprocate the banking secret for all law enforcement institutions, namely the state's attorney's office and the police. There can't be any banking secrets. So far, we have had in practice cases, so also in existing norms that are not good, but it has always been interpreted as bank infavors, i.e. the protection of that client. It is not necessary to highlight here at all the material interest which is and which must prevail in such cases, but rather what banks, nor can this Law on Credit Institutions in general be a law which is governed by the Criminal Procedure Act. It's here to say Colloquial senior law, stronger law. It is an organic law, and no matter what is corrupted in other laws, these provisions must apply. But on this occasion I want to point out that instead of, we had here the first reading of the Criminal Procedure Act, to commit financial institutions in this sense, it still comes out to meet financial institutions. And in such a way, financial institutions become special centres of power. They are in their own nature, in their own strength, in their economic strength. But then I see no reason why in law in normative we still support such solutions. Therefore, the banking secret should be reliably relativated to the limits in this particular sense. Here, there is still time for this provision of Article 169 to be fixed and said. The law says that a provision of the Company Act will apply to a credit institution, unless otherwise prescribed by this law. Of course, there are a number of specific laws that have otherwise solved certain topics and certain relationships past, or in a different way than the Law on Commercial Society. But this bill does it through measure. So the Company Act, which must be a roof for all corporations, for all companies in some way credit institutions, financial institutions as centres of financial power provide something that others do not have the right to do so. I will especially highlight here something that concerns us and instead of strengthening the position of workers and workers every little bit in a certain law is a waste of norm that has talked as much about their position and protected their position. So, instead of strengthening such a position, he weakens, he weakens almost every bill. Well, unfortunately, with this proposal for a law on credit institutions. In that sense, I have also submitted an amendment because it is not possible for this law to deny the Labour Act. The Labour Act in its Chapter XVIII says in a sentence when it refers to the participation of workers in the decision-making work in its 139th article on the right to participate in the decision-making of workers. It is an imperative norm and there is no law, even if it applies to financial institutions that can derivate this norm. But that's what this law does. Of course, proper application of both laws should cancel this norm, but then we have one legal disorder, and then it requires further effort and further interpretation. It is therefore good for you to react immediately here in this Article of the 52nd Bill on the members of the Supervisory Board referred to in paragraph 1 of point 5. you said that you prohibited workers from being members of the Supervisory Board. Well, no matter how much this kind of thing is described in this context and regulated by this law makes it kind of normal. This is in direct contrast to the Labour Act with the cited Article 139. Hence, credit institutions must, therefore, assume part of social responsibility when they already have such power by nature. And here I suggest that the Proposer, too, still has some time to consider this situation and to react in this way to erase this paragraph in Article 5 of Article 52. Proposal for a law on credit institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15499	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15500	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, there is another one before us, therefore, in a series of laws that our national legislation is in line with European Union legislation this time in the area of banking and financial services. I am truly personally happy when we pass laws that comply with legislation and adopt standards developed, modern and... because by every such act, we are one step closer to our basic and fundamental strategic goal, therefore, to enter the European Union which means to us for all who are here today and for all of Croatia the basic and fundamental objective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If memory serves me well by July 15th this year, a total of 80 legislative proposals that our legislation is in line with the acquis of the European Union have been adopted. Although several of them were accepted only in the first reading, while the vast majority is still in the united, means in the first and second reading, noting that during this 6th session something about 15 will be adopted, perhaps some and more legal proposals for the P.Z.E. designation. All previously said, therefore, goes in favour of that claim, which I last said in my presentation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament has indeed achieved, at the very least, on the basis of the harmonisation of our legislative framework with the acquis of the European Union, or at the very least an appropriate pace that guarantees us and without greater difficulties. Here is the other day, Croatian Parliament Speaker Mr Luka Bebic said that we should achieve the goal that we set before us of adopting 120 legislative proposals that harmonize our legislation with the legislation of the European Union. As regards the proposed law, therefore, the Credit Institutions Act generally regulates the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of the work of banks and other credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia but also the conditions under which legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia may provide banking and financial services in its area, which is clearly regulated in Article 1 of this Proposal. Therefore, the Credit Institutions Act is practically a substitute for the Banks Act which still regulates the banking sector and its operating conditions in the Republic of Croatia but which at the moment does not constitute a legal framework which could satisfy the required European regulations, does not allow credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia to operate according to the modern principles of banking profession, and contains certain irregularities and deficiencies observed during the application of individual institutes and provisions of law in practice, such as the Institute of Special Administration, the launch and conduct of liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings, etc. Let us remember that because of the exceptional importance that credit institutions have for the overall economic and financial system of the state, which I will say a little more later in 1993, the adoption of the Law on Banks and Savings has practically begun the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with modern international standards in the banking sector. The process was continued in the coming period by the adoption of two Laws on Banks, 1998 and the current 2002 law. Finally, at the end of 2006, the Law on Credit Unions and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks aimed at removing non-sustainability with the legal property of the European Union in the field of business savings of credit cooperatives was adopted. The banking system in the Republic of Croatia during the application of those legal solutions went through a period of constant transformation, which especially marked the entry of foreign investors into the Croatian financial market. Foreign investors today are dominant in the ownership structure of the banking sector with which many of them are personally not very pleased. But that is why, on the other hand, these investors certainly contributed to the consolidation of this sector whose stability was significantly shaken at the end of the last century. Fortunately, these times are far behind us and I am convinced that it will never happen again in Croatia. I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, specifically from County. Three banks operated in Vukovar-Srijem County at the time. So the County Bank, Cibalia Bank and the City Bank of Vukovar. All three ended up in bankruptcy and we from the space of Vukovar-Srijem County really know what banking and what the banking sector means for each space and so on for the whole country. Unfortunately, we are also witnessing today the fact of the economic consequences and these global scales can cause earthquakes by large players in this sector. That is why it is very important for us not to have unwanted phenomena similar to those that I mentioned earlier from the end of the last century or from this current in the United States to adopt the highest standards of banking business and, in accordance with the same, to adopt a quality legislative framework that will have mechanisms and instruments for effective prevention and resolution of possible crisis situations in the business of credit institutions. And also create assumptions for their orderly and free business according to market principles. Since I said so before or earlier, I have a few sentences to say about the importance of the banking sector or credit institutions for the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Well, here we go in a row. We have 30 on the financial market of the Republic of Croatia, 33 business banks are operating; the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 5 housing savings. Also in the Republic of Croatia, 6 foreign banks' representations are operating. For the sake of the company alone, I will mention that in 1997 there were 60 banks that provided banking services in the Republic of Croatia, which says that the number of banks in the past 10 years has been halved. But that's why the bank's almost tripled. The total assets of the aforementioned credit institutions, so 33 banks and 5 housing savings, amounted to a total of just over 351 billion kuna in late 2007. And the growth of active banks at year level was 13.29% while the growth of active housing savings was 3.9% modest. During 2007, a total of 215.64 billion kuna loans were granted. It means that kuna foreign exchanges are granted to 52.4%, companies 40%, and the remaining 7.6% are granted to the state, local self-government and other banking and non-banking institutions. And I'm with this directional relationship means approval of bank funds can't quite agree and be too satisfied but I think the trend is good in the last few years and that a lot more funds are still channelled into the economy than, say, back in 3, 5 or 10 years. The total guarantee capital of banks amounted to more than 42 billion kuna at the end of 2007. It is particularly interesting data that should refer to the stability of the banking sector in Croatia, which says that the ratio of the adequateness of the guarantee capital was 16.36%. So those skeptics that have been declared here today and the expectations that certain smaller banks might be in trouble to increase the meaning of this capital adequacy requirement, I don't think we should have that fear in view of this data. This information is even more significant if we know that each credit institution is obliged to provide at any time the amount of the guarantee capital adequate to the types, scope and complexity of the services it provides and the risks to which it is or could be exposed. In accordance with Article 130 of the proposed law, the minimum level of adequateness of the guarantee capital is 12% and that it is increased compared to the current law by 2%. If we add everything, we previously add information on the Circ. 5.1 billion kuna obtained before tax in 2007 I really think that we can see that the banking sector as part of the overall financial system is of paramount importance for the entire economic prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. I will now mention only some of the most important newspapers that the proposal for a law on credit institutions also represents, which is also a harmonisation of the legislative framework of this sector with relevant directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. Therefore, the term credit institution is introduced which represents a legal person who has received employment approval from the competent authority of the Croatian National Bank and can be established in the Republic of Croatia as banks, savings banks, residential savings banks or electronic money institutions. The obligation of the administration of credit institutions to establish and implement an effective and reliable risk management system by establishing a clear organisational structure and an appropriate internal control and audit system according to the principle of proportionality shall be laid down. The so-called regime is being introduced. unique passports. Since I'm running out of time, I might cut this part a little short than I planned. The risk management area is more precise and detailed. The public disclosure obligation is introduced to a whole set of information which contributes to the transparency of bank operations. In detail, supervisory and supervisory measures are regulated over credit institutions where the central place remains only significantly more precise, more detailedly occupied by the Croatian National Bank. Finally, for the sake of everything previously said, the objectives that this bill seeks to achieve and personal belief that the proposed law is a significant step forward in the direction of stability and security and orderly business of credit institutions will personally support the adoption of the Credit Institutions Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15501	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15502	Thank you very much. I'll agree with my colleague Filipovic in most of the presentations. The only thing they can't agree on is this part where he said that businesses have been growing lately, so credits are being taken for businesses and not for citizens because it's a simple fact that in the 6th month, credit borrowing of citizens is continuing. So they raised $1.4 billion or 15% more than last year, while companies in the same period of one month owed only 1.1 billion and 5.8% more than last year, respectively, no more than last year, which is the biggest slowdown in corporate debt so far. And I agree that every, every credit debt doesn't have to be bad if it goes into production. Unfortunately, today in Croatia, the situation is that the most credit obligations go into citizens' consumption. Citizens are in debt to survive. And when we combine the data, when we look at the total debt of the Croatian banks today, they have a 20 billion kuna credit rating. Out of that, 120 billion kuna were taken by citizens, and 96 billion kuna were taken by companies. So we see, we see that today in Croatia it is wrong to direct credit and it would be very good to invest and to take credits for production and not for consumption. Unfortunately, today in Croatia, the situation is such that everything is taken for consumption and that Croatian citizens have to take credit so that they can survive from month to month.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15503	Mr Filipovic's answer. Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15504	Thank you very much. Although it wasn't a correction to the incorrect allegations I'm going to tell my colleagues that I said that I agree with that finding and that I'd be happier to have much more money from the banks, it means it approves and directs it towards the economy. However, I was talking about... I was talking about trends. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I was going back three years, going back five years, ten years back when those relationships were much more unfavourable. What is important to stress is that even though we are looking at the real sector, we cannot in some way direct the financial institution to whom they will lend loans. So, as a free citizen, I can look for loans just like any economic operator on this market. I agree with you that this relationship should be significantly better and significantly higher in this relative part towards economic operators and let's hope that in the future it will be. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15505	Thank you. I would like to inform you that a meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture will be held in “Little Council” at 13.30 p.m. as announced here by the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. And finally, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15506	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. Credit institutions are indeed of great importance to the overall economic and financial system of the state. That's exactly why it's back in '93. the year passed the Law on Banks and Savings, which started the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with modern standards of banking. During the amendment of the Banks Act, the banking system in the Republic of Croatia went through a period of continuous transformation, which especially marked the entry of foreign investors into the Croatian financial market. The fact that the Council of Europe, the Council of the European Union, accepted on 14 April 2003 a request for membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and that negotiations for Chapter IX were opened in Brussels at an intergovernmental conference held on 26 June 2007. – Financial services have only highlighted the need for continuity of the implementation of the harmonisation of the legal framework with the legal gains of the European Union. Since by adopting Directive 2006/48, the European Union has adopted a framework for the adoption of Basel 2 standards for all credit institutions and the Republic of Croatia, the Credit Institutions Act actually creates the necessary legal framework for the implementation of this highest supervisory standard. In addition to those procedures relating to the liquidation and bankruptcy of banks contained in the Banks Act, the Banking Act, and the Company Act, it was necessary to adapt the provisions of Directive 2001/24, and therefore, in the new Credit Institutions Act, the provisions on liquidation and bankruptcy of credit institutions with the international element were incorporated. In this respect, certain irregularities have been specified in practice and shortcomings in the application of certain institutions and provisions of the Bank Act, such as the Institute of Special Administration, the launch, and the conduct of liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings. First of all, what I would like to stress is that, in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the single European passport on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, it was necessary to define precisely the basic financial services which together with banking services make up a set of mutually recognised services that credit institutions from the Republic of Croatia will be able to provide in the territory of other Member States and which credit institutions from other Member States will be able to provide in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The aim of this proposed law is primarily to enable credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia to operate in accordance with the modern principles introduced by Basel 2 standard, further stressing their ability to operate freely in accordance with market conditions and modern rules of the banking profession. At the same time, the powers of the Croatian National Bank are further specified to quickly and effectively prevent the instruments set up by this law and, unless it can effectively resolve the possible crisis of the situation in the business of credit institutions. This shall, through a high degree of prevention that primarily requires the provision of credit institutions themselves through an adequate internal control system and effective management of all risks that are or may be exposed as well as through legal mechanisms available to supervisory authorities, create assumptions for the orderly market operation of credit institutions. In the end, I would like to stress that I am giving full support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15507	Thank you. Mr Bernardic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would agree with you colleagues that this law wants to introduce modern methods in the regulation of the management of credit institutions and that is what everyone here supports and there is no dispute and opposition. But what is the main problem is related, and this could be seen from the Croatian Banks Association's memo and amendments, which are introduced by an independent member and by the introduction of additional supervision for the procurator are introduced by two things that are already defined, meaning the Law on Commercial Society. And that's where modern methods are not applied, but it's our own kind of invention. That's why it's important that these items are sort of being completed and I hope that these amendments will be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15509	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15510	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, it's obvious that this is an important law from the financial system. First of all, this one, I would say in my personal name the quality and good debate that was held in this esteemed House. Here I would be able to reach out and briefly support myself in any case and some of the numerical indicators we heard at the beginning of the debate on what is currently going on, that is, in the last few months and weeks, unfortunately and intensely what is happening on the world's financial markets. Every day we practically witness new earthquakes, new consequences. However, what is also very important to say is that we cannot and of course do not claim to be immune from any kind of disorder. For now, however, these indicators that say that the Croatian banking system is generally a well-protected financial system. Among other things, a quality and legal regulation which is in force, i.e. that which is currently on your table for discussion, i.e. soon to vote, as regards additional provisions, i.e. articles. Also, I have to say that some of the numbered indicators and, above all, some claims, of course, I can't agree, I can't support them. I would first of all refer to data related to bank lending, so I'm talking about citizens' loans and businesses, and these data are accurate in terms of how much the share of declines on citizens, how much on businesses. However, we still need to say from this position a little more specifically, that loans to the population do not mean any loans and taking in debt for some kind of survival because I will tell you from the position of the Ministry of Finance, today I believe that we will have a debate on the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months from which we clearly see excise duties on cars growing significantly. So, however, it should be said that our Croatian citizens continue to take credit for this ongoing consumption. I mentioned cars as one of the categories, I could mention some others. As for your comments and suggestions, here's what I'd like to ask you to do. There were also a few direct questions to me. So, first of all, possible changes and additions. It's about this law and any other law whether it's from a financial or any other system. You know it yourself and this law has been marked European, in the sense that harmonisation is a good part of the European directives, this is a law that complies with the current newest European directives. For this reason, we have no reason at this point to prejudge anything in the sense that now or at some point there will be a change. What will happen on the European market, of course, is that we, as at this time, will apply the candidate, or the accession country when we become a full member of course. As for the recapitalisation, i.e. one big and important newspaper and the provisions of this law, so first of all what I said, so the modern standards of Basel 2 relating to the adequateness of capital, I would only refer here in one way to the debate that the recapitalisation of banks does not necessarily mean, or actually does not necessarily mean the sale of that bank. Therefore, the adequateness of capital in terms of the necessary capital for credit, i.e. any other work, expansion or business activity of banks. When we mentioned best world practice, in any case it's one term that we like to use at home and I think it's useful and by the way we actually use it, but I think what we currently have is the financial banking system in the way it is, it actually shows that we got the best out of this best world practice. As for the members of the Supervisory Board, there would only be a brief replication of a fellow respected representative, I believe he was a clean lapus of lingu, so it's not about an independent member of the board, it's about an independent member of the Supervisory Board. I think that, in fact, I am also sure in this home and within the executive authority and the general public, there has already been a lot of debate about the necessity and in some ways the preference of actually involving independent experts in the work of individual supervisory committees. It was mainly referred to public companies because, among other things, we concluded that it would only improve the work and efficiency of these individual companies. At this point, simply in this bill as it was formulated, it was actually on that threshold that it went, among other things. An independent member of the Supervisory Board of any bank, or credit institution, will certainly contribute only to the quality and efficiency of business. There will certainly not be any, we have heard and some little more difficult words about the political racket and the like, no intention in this regard has gone. And the other thing that you would say about an independent member of the Supervisory Board, the European Union and the European Commission, so by communicating with them directly, we have found in fact that one recommendation is in preparation for all credit institutions to introduce this independent member. In that way, I'd just like to refer if it wasn't one of our own, as we heard the fiction, or some kind of execution. As regards the procuring officer, Article 43(4) clearly states that the administration of a credit institution may authorise a procuring institution, however, those transactions arising from services which the credit institution has received from the approval of the Croatian National Bank are only possible together with one member of the administration. Which means that a procurator in this way, certain jobs for which no decision was needed, or the consent of the Croatian National Bank, can be made on its own. However, a procurist as an employee, i.e. as an employee of a credit institution, does not get the consent and approval of the Croatian National Bank. In this way, we would then be able to enable a person who has not been checked, in the sense that it has met certain criteria and standards of the Croatian National Bank, to carry out the tasks that we define by definition in this law as operations of basic banking or other financial activities. Also, as regards the protection of citizens, I said in the opening statement that this law specifically specificises this institute, therefore the necessity, i.e. the obligation to hire a person who will be contacting citizens, but the general details the additional role of the Croatian National Bank. And there you would also refer to what we heard, so trends in investment in deposits. I don't think we should take that with some kind of negative connotation. Citizens are smart enough to manage their resources enough to see that in one activity, there are certain difficulties in one sector, such as those adjustments of capital market prices, that they will move to a more secure sector. It is good for us to know that there are such safe havens as credit institutions that then have more investment in deposits. As far as the argument is concerned, that is, criticism and suggestions related to the banking secret. The banking secret is specified in Articles 168 and 169 respectively. I would just say that the intention of this law was, of course, to keep positive things out of practice so far and, of course, on the basis of some experiences, to further improve. Honorable MPs, I'd just like to give a brief answer. Therefore, Article 169(3) correctly states that the obligation of credit institutions to keep a bank secret does not apply to the following and, inter alia, to the extent that confidential information is communicated to the Croatian National Bank, to the financial inspectorate or to another supervisory authority for the purposes of supervisory and supervisory purposes, and within the framework of their activity, or jurisdiction. Also, in the article, i.e. subparagraph 11, if confidential data are entrusted to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, i.e. in subparagraph 12, if the data are entrusted to the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. So, my comment is that this part of the bank's secret has been qualityd and put into motion by the law. As for the entry into force. Therefore, one of the arguments, i.e. criticism, was why not all the provisions of this law came into force in 1.1.2009. I think that answer is in some ways very simple, and that is that we still have to give these credit institutions a certain stage of adjustment. These six months, we think it'll be enough, because it's not just a simple calculation of capital adequateness. However, in this law, i.e. the proposal for this law, you see that certain categories, active ones, are therefore conditional on speaking mathematically, so the categories in the denominator change their weights in the calculation of the total risk, i.e. the exposure of the bank. So these are measures that banks, i.e. credit institutions, must and should give them a certain period of time to adapt. However, what I said in the introductory word, in no way will this put the whole law at risk, because the current law on banks will remain in force in this respect. Capital adequateness is also prescribed there. This increase in the adequateness of capital will not necessarily mean an increase, i.e. a decrease in liquidity, i.e. an increase in the restrictions on banks, because one part of these less risky placements will actually be released from their management. So anyway, it's one provision that we think is in place, because credit institutions actually asked for one thing. You also heard in the debate that this law was part of the Croatian Banks Association, which, among other things, asked for. And finally, I was asked a direct question about the cost of supervisory work. So the specific question was whether it would go to the end-user's burden. I, what I can say on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance as a Proposer, is therefore proposed by this law, i.e. an item that can be introduced for supervisory fees. So it can be, it is not still a bond, so it is possible for the Croatian People's Bank. It is very difficult to respond and enter into the business policy of a particular credit institution, but I can responsibly say that in this way there is no reason to increase, that there is at all an additional cost, or that it spills over to end-users in the short case of citizens and businesses, in the light of the growth of borrowing costs, i.e. interest rates. For this reason we have also said with caution and given this formulation, because taking into account all aspects, all the provisions of this law, just before I said about the adequateness of capital and the release of a certain part of the funds, we believe that this possible introduction of a supervisory fee should not, in fact, affect the increase in costs which, of course, should always be taken into account by end-users, be it citizens or businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15511	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15512	Thank you very much. I have to correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Secretary of State who tried to explain the citizens' credit responsibility that it was on the rise because they allegedly invested in cars and other things that had nothing to do with personal consumption. And I must point out that according to this year's data, the credit responsibility for financing the clean consumption of Croatian citizens in the first half of this year increased by 3.6 billion kuna while the credit debt of Croatian citizens in terms of car consumption increased by only 200 million kuna. So it's 18 times bigger, more and more the responsibility of Croatian citizens for personal consumption, where most of it includes food and what Croatian citizens need to survive from today to tomorrow compared to cars. Therefore, I would ask Mr. Secretary of State not to explain in a way that Croatian citizens spend and owe themselves to credit institutions to increase the luxury, they are unfortunately in Croatia today to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15513	Thank you. Correction Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15514	Greetings, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I highly appreciate my colleague Maric, but in his presentation, however, he accidentally made several failures and several incorrect allegations. I'll just focus on one. You said the introduction of an independent member would contribute to better work, meaning the supervisory board, the better work of a credit institution. It just can't be because you don't know it. So if what an independent member should be, if it were listed somewhere, if it were somewhere that it says who might be that member, then I could part agree with you. So it's something we don't know yet, and we have a CNB supervisor that regulates additionally, so it's further introduced, like we don't trust him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15515	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to vote for what we are, which is prepared for, those points that are prepared. Please quorum. Please, let's get on with it. Let's see. ... You got it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's get on with it. We didn't all seem to be getting involved. Can you count it? 89 MPs and MPs. So now 90. Thank you. We can start and cut to the vote. 1. The final draft law on credit institutions was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 152. The debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee for Law and MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. The amendments submitted by the Government have become in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall be an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the other amendments. Mr. Zdravko Maric, please. First, the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15517	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15518	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, also an amendment to Article 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15519	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the government does not accept this amendment. Therefore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, in the procedure of resolving the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of the same provision of the applicable Law on banks, adopted a solution on 16 April 2008 which does not accept the requirement for the assessment of constitutionality, as the importance of banks for the functioning of the economic system, in particular its monetary part, and the different competences of the supervisory boards of other companies justify the different regulation of the right to the participation of employees in banks in relation to other companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15520	Thank you. This amendment has not been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15521	Thank you very much for informing me that finally the Constitutional Court has taken a stand, and precisely because things are clearer, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15522	The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Please, thank you very much, I don't think there are any more amendments. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on credit institutions. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that most of the 97 votes in favour and 2 abstentions are accepted The final proposal for a law on credit institutions together with the amendments adopted. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on electronic money institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 151 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by legislator Goran Maric and the Legislative Committee. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15524	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. So, the draft final proposal of the Law on Electronic Money Institutions in front of you actually introduces one, which the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia introduces legal property of the European Union in accordance with the European Parliament and of the Council's 2000 directives on the launch, implementation and prudential supervision of electronic money institutions. In the law itself, let me define here, which is electronic money. This is the payment instrument or monetary value stored on an electronic data carrier and which is accepted as a means of payment by non-issuers. The electronic money institutions shall represent a specific form of credit institutions that are not depositary and whose primary activity is the issue of electronic money. They relate to most of the provisions of the Credit Institutions Act, but due to a series of specificities, they are also prescribed by this special law. The electronic money institutions are not allowed to grant loans and their underlying capital must be at least 8 million kuna. Legal forms of electronic money institutions, risk management, electronic money redemption conditions, supervisory and possible supervisory measures shall be prescribed. Subjects who issue less electronic money which meet other prescribed criteria shall be allowed to operate through an exemption in a significantly lighter prudential regime. In order to issue electronic money, the Croatian National Bank should be granted an authorisation for work, i.e. exemption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15525	Thank you. The committee's reporters? The Committee on European Integration, legislation? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, chairman of the committee, Mr. Representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 15th session held on 16 September 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law on electronic money institutions, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 28 August 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question under Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body and supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopt this law by an urgent procedure since it continues to bring Croatian legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously without discussion to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Electronic Money Institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15527	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15528	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the Law on Electronic Money Institutions. At first, I would like to stress that the electronic money issue activity in terms of depositing monetary value on the electronic data carrier used for subsequent payments is increasingly present in the world. When we talk about the Republic of Croatia, then we must stress that the Law on Banks defines that the issue of electronic money is a banking service provided exclusively by banks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, since the concept of electronic money has not been legally defined, there are various electronic devices on the market to which the monetary value used for payment is stored. Since there is no systematic monitoring of the issue of electricity, it is not known how much of it has been issued in the Republic of Croatia so far. Since such a job can be business-attractive for issuers, and it also offers certain benefits for customers, it is considered justified to adopt a clear legal framework in the Republic of Croatia that would encourage the issue of electronic money, while maintaining a high level of consumer protection and a high level of stability and security of the financial system as a whole. It is important to stress by passing this law that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the applicable legal standards of the European Union in the section relating to the operations of electronic money institutions. The electronic money institutions shall represent a specific form of credit institutions that are not depositary and whose primary activity is the issue of electronic money. They relate to most of the provisions of the Credit Institutions Act, but due to a series of specificities, it is also prescribed by this special law. For example, this law regulates the operations of electronic money institutions, legal forms of electronic money institutions, governance principles including risk management, conditions for the redemption of electronic money, supervisory of electronic money institutions and possible supervisory measures. The electronic money institutions are not allowed to grant loans and their underlying capital must amount to at least 8 million kuna. Furthermore, entities which issue less electronic money and which meet other prescribed criteria shall be allowed to operate through an exemption with a significantly lighter prudential regime. Therefore, for the issue of electronic money, it is necessary to obtain from the Croatian National Bank an authorisation to work or to grant an exemption. This law also respects the expected changes in other national regulations, notably the overall regulation of credit institutions, changes in the Law on Commercial Companies, the Accounting Act and the Law on Mandatory Relations. The adoption of this law introduces the legislation of the Republic of Croatia the legal framework for the operation of electronic money institutions based in the Republic of Croatia and the conditions for issuing electronic money in the Republic of Croatia by persons established outside the Republic of Croatia. What I particularly want to stress is that this law regulates the conditions for the establishment, business and termination of the work of electronic money institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, the supervisory of their business, as well as the conditions for issuing electronic money in the Republic of Croatia by persons based outside the Republic of Croatia. The proper application of the Credit Institutions Act and regulations governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing at the Electronic Money Institution is also regulated. In addition to those rules at the Electronic Money Institution, unless explicitly prescribed by a specific law, the other rules governing the business of credit institutions shall not apply. Furthermore, the Electronic Money Institution, which represents a credit institution whose activity is to issue payment funds in the form of electronic money on its own behalf, for which the Croatian National Bank has been granted an exemption from the Croatian National Bank. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the Croatian Democratic Community club fully supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15529	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15530	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues from the ministry. Here, what to say at the outset about this Law on Electronic Institutions rather than supporting it and it will regulate the market of electronic institutions, the electronic money market in accordance with the European Union directives, and in this sense, this is the time to settle and on this law it is necessary to regulate it and it is high time to sort it out in some way. So, electronic money first appeared in Japan in the second half of the '80s. It was prepaid cards that were meant to be issued by the railway company's telecommunications companies for the use of their services. Such cards were also taken in Japan, and later they came to Europe, so somewhere in the early 1990s as a means of customer loyalty, as a means for which, in exchange for their money, they could issue anti-value cards in that money and therefore even give a discount to end-users and reduce the risk of business, means these cards themselves to the users themselves. Electronic money in the mid-1990s was based on hardware technology on chips, but David Shom and his company "Digikesh" presented their idea of software-based electronic money and cash or digital cash. This was, in fact, caused by the fear of European and all central banks, as well as the European Central Bank, and has already been recommended by the European Monetary Institute in '94. For years, the issue of electronic money was allowed only to banks, but in '98. Four years later, the European Commission has seen the need to issue electronic money, seeing the great potential that electronic money has and can have for the overall economy made certain recommendations, means that something will be arranged, means a more looser legislative regulation than that legislation that is present for the current institutions. And then in 2000, so two years after and after the guidelines to define electronic money, and the Member States, the Member States of the European Union were required and guidelines through a set of meanings to install the registration framework into their legislative systems. This proposal, which provides for the minimum amount of capital, is 8 million kuna, which I think is enough and, in fact, an optimum for the business of such institutions, while for banks, let's remember the underlying capital at the level of 40 million kuna for 20 million kuna savings, so 8 million kuna for an institution that wants to issue electronic money for cash is a good base capital. What needs to be welcomed is the regulation of this thing with all the advantages that electronic money has to bear. The benefits are what he is and can be protected by PIN, he is cheaper to handle, he can change easily, he can transform himself over the network, in the future, so we are witnessing an ever faster development of telecommunications and the increasing development of electronic communications is the possibility of accessing that money via the phone, the Internet is also one of his great advantages and therefore needs to be welcomed. The negativeities of the whole story need hardware and unfortunately what is often withdrawn and what we are witnessing in various media articles is that the user cannot detect fraud, and fraud can cause systemic risk, so reporting by institutions for the Croatian National Bank's electronic money as a central bank is one of the measures that should of course be welcomed and what should be meant in the implementation of that decision itself, and very much to be implemented in order to make the citizens as safe as possible. Of course, this will cause certain necessary actions and redefine certain other laws that my colleague spoke about before me, but what I have to say behind that is that in Europe, the whole story with electronic money, although expectations were very high, did not bring fruitful results, or did not bring good enough results, so we have information that in Europe it means that in the euro area, in the euro area where the euro is applied, as a currency, there are only 10 million euros in terms of changing that electronic software electronic electronic money, means trading that money. There is a possibility for the legislator, the state that in some ways the European Commission's directives are looser, that this whole story is a little bit more lax than it is to attract companies themselves to actually agree to this one model of electronic money issue. There's a very successful example in the world of electronic money issue, it's about... in Hong Kong, which was first published in '97. In the future, the citizens of Hong Kong are paying the public for the railway and it is renewable and I hope that in the future our public transport, means united public transport, meaning in the city in the interurban transport, in transport even by destinations outside, will resort to one such method, meaning that electronic payment is united. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I have to say on behalf of the SDP Club is that this proposal of the Electronic Money Act will support and it's actually a good time and time for this law to come, since this market is unsettled and it's actually the last time this story is settled. And that's why we'll support the days of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15531	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15532	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, fellow Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Money Institutions, we must first come up with an idea of what electronic money is. Electronic money, i.e. electronic cash, is one of the ways in which electronic payment is made. The development is, of course, triggered by new technologies by the spread of the Internet, a media that is conducting an increasing number of transactions with inevitable communication between people around the world, around the world. Of course, as this communication develops, as the Internet develops, we also need to define this form of payment and one law. What I can say is that regulations in Europe that regulate this area have already been adopted in 2000, and so far we do not have a large number of electronic money institutions. They are around Europe, the European Union about a dozen, while 70 institutions have been identified as issuers of electronic money. As such, the law regulates the operations of electronic money institutions, procedural standards, legal forms of institutions, governance principles including risk management, conditions for the redemption of electronic money, the suppression of electronic money institutions and possible commission measures. I think that this form of payment in the future is going to be bigger and bigger, especially because it is profitable for those end-users, the cheapest, so you electronic money can buy certain goods and services at the cheapest cost. As such, it brings challenges and normal, one of the challenges that may need to be addressed I don't know if, in terms of consumer protection, it is the law, or the problem of customer anonymity. Because when you buy electronic money if someone wants to dispose of your data it's possible that they have, that they collect possibly some database about what you've been buying and how you've been buying. There is also a problem of double consumption of electronic money, so it is possible to trade twice with the same form of electronic money. Therefore, these things should be identified with extra attention, i.e. we must be aware that, with benefits like I said, cheaper trading brings challenges, i.e. risks to which consumers should be protected. What people on the Internet already know well, there are these terms, i.e. the history of electronic money and the history of certain things that occurred, was the first cyber cash that, it was one firm through which you could also buy, electronically, today perhaps the most famous in the world is payment song. It is the same form of electronic money where you can buy any product, service, in exchange means for permanent money you can make certain loans on the Internet. Pay rooster, to say the small extent of use, today uses hundreds of millions of people around the world daily and applies in 55 countries around the world, not unfortunately in Croatia, but it is very likely that we will allow such legal solutions to be applied in Croatia. What, I will support, of course, this law as well as the SDP club, because I think it is necessary, it is good that we have it, that we have it in the procedure to adopt it as soon as possible so that Croatian citizens can do business in this way. With what I have said, we must pay attention to this benefit, and I hope that the competent institutions will also, in the future, be focused on protecting consumers, i.e. on protecting people who will deal with this trade and that such situations as are unwanted to consumers, as I have said using anonymity for some purpose of researching what is being bought and how to buy or be able to cheat on the Internet will be as little as possible. There he is, so much about it, I hope that we can adopt this law and that it will in practice prove to be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15533	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Marić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here is only briefly, I will thank you among other colleagues for actually sharing some very useful information with all of us and giving a chronological demonstration of the development of this one institute which, as we have heard in Croatia in fact, is only in development at these moments, i.e. in development and so certainly that this proposal, or the draft of the Law on Electronic Money Institutions, is certainly useful. What I would say, of course, is that, in the very concept and definition of electronic money, an issue of data security is immediately withdrawn, in any case, it is hard, of course, to be incorporated into the law, which is and in any case it will be very important to implement it in order for end-users to be maximumly protected. In doing so, only one remark to the esteemed representative, and it is predicted from the experience of other countries that, I know that it is not nice to use English terminology in the Croatian Parliament but actually one offline connection, so it is not necessary to go over the on-line connection in order to possibly make that data available to someone or visible. Also here, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, allow me how much I have received on the table, so two amendments to this law by the Committee of Law and by Agent Goran Marić can only say that they are both acceptable and that the government will adopt them or accept the bill. Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15535	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15536	We move on to the Final Bill on Electronic Money Institutions was also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 151. The debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by legislator Goran Maric. The proposer accepted these amendments during the debate and did not need to be voted on. Please, let's get on with it. I am giving the final draft law on electronic money institutions to vote. Let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that the majority of votes of 96 votes in favour of, 1 abstentions are the final draft of the law on electronic money institutions, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15537	We're moving on to the next point. - The final proposal of the Finality Act rests in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 150; The legislator is the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15538	Thank you very much. So, the third law of today from, we can tell the package of financial laws, the Law, that is, draft the final proposal of the Finality Act to settle in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments. It is a law governing an area that has also not been governed by a special law in the Republic of Croatia, and its adoption into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia has been transposed by the European Parliament Directive since '98. the year on the final accounting of payment and securities accounting systems. What is to be said, therefore, which this law regulates, it regulates the finality of the settlement systems in transfer order systems, the consequences that the initiation of insolvency proceedings against the participant will have on its rights and obligations in connection with participation in the system and the rights of the recipient of the insurance instruments in the case of insolvency proceedings against the provider of the insurance instrument. This law seeks to exclude the occurrence of risks in payment systems and systems for the settlement of financial instruments resulting from legal proceedings resulting from insolvency against the participant of the system and from risks that could be extended from the system to the entire economy. This law also seeks to protect the domestic system from the application of foreign rules on insolvency against a participant in a system that is from another country and finally improves the legal validity of the given insurance instruments. The existing systems in the Republic of Croatia to which this law will apply are the Croatian system of large payments, the national clinical system and the system of breakthroughs and the intentions of the central depositary agency. The competent authorities are the Croatian National Bank for Payment Systems and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for Systems, for the purpose of financial instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15539	Thank you. Appropriations for legislation, European integration, finance and the state budget? Yes, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 15th session held on 16 September 2008 the proposal for a law on finality of the settlement in payment systems and systems for the settlement of financial instruments with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 28 August 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question under Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body and supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopt this law by an urgent procedure since it continues to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously without discussion to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on finality of the intention to payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15541	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15542	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Act, the Law on finality of intent in payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments, regulates an area which has not been regulated in the Republic of Croatia so far by a special law, which also implements Directive 98/26 of the EC in our legislative framework, which fulfils the undertaken obligation of the Republic of Croatia to bring our legislation in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. That Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This law is therefore governed by the finality of the transfer order settlement systems, the consequences of the proceedings against the participants in the system and the rights and obligations of the recipient of the insurance instruments in the event of insolvency proceedings. This means, in practice, that when a transfer order publisher or, in everyday life, it is said, the virmana submits a warrant, a source in FINA, mail, a business bank or another financial institution, he can no longer withdraw it. The order has been unconditionally and irrevocably carried out and its execution is not possible to refute or undo. This is very important for safety in everyday economic business. In practice, there were countless examples of fraud and economic crime based on the withdrawal of orders to transfer the Virman after his surrender. The simplest case was that the buyer contracted the purchase of goods on the condition of an advance payment, completed the order. The FINA or the bank are handing him over the virman. He faxes to a salesman who delivers the goods to him, and he goes to FINA or some financial institution and pulls the virman with any explanation. And it's so nice he's the goods he got in the meantime on, got no pay, and maybe never. Therefore, Article 5 of the Law provides for a period of irrevocability of a warrant from which no participant in the payment system can recall a transfer order. That moment is prescribed rules of operation of the system but the most important thing is that the recipient has proof that the order has been irrevocably issued. In the case of an entity operating through Internet banking, it is even easier to check whether the payment system is enabled, because the payment system allows the issuing of confirmation that the account is irrevocably given and on the other hand the recipient of the order can simply check the account of the account to determine who it is and how much money he has transferred to the account. The second key amendment introduced by this law to the legal system is to define the moment of opening the insolvency proceedings or the opening of bankruptcy as a ban on the availability of financial resources and payment instruments against the participant. That moment shall be given, an hour, a minute after the decision of the court or of another competent authority of the Republic of Croatia or of another Member State to open the bankruptcy proceedings. However, it should be pointed out that the opening of insolvency proceedings does not have a retroactive effect, which means that transfer orders and other rights and obligations have been created before the opening of the proceedings, binding on all participants or must be executed. But they are also valid and binding orders for the transfer days following the opening of the bankruptcy procedure only provided that the system manager can prove that he did not know or had to know about the opening of the procedure. After opening the insolvency proceedings, the court or any other competent authority shall, without delay, inform the Croatian National Bank or the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, and they shall, in accordance with their respective competences, forward that notice to the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union. Of course, when we join the EU. And thirdly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is a very important area regulated by this law which has so far not been particularly regulated are the rights of the recipient of the instruments of insurance in the event of insolvency proceedings. So he's bankrupting the insurance provider. This law says that the opening of insolvency proceedings has no effect on the rights and instruments of insurance and the exercise of the rights arising from them. In practice, this means that claims on the basis of issued payment insurance instruments can be settled from the assets of the issuer of the insurance instrument. The main objective of this law is to exclude the possibility of legal risks exposed to payment systems and systems for the purpose of securities and other financial instruments and to preserve the stability of the financial system. On the other hand, the opening of the financial market and the inclusion in European systems will thus protect the domestic system from foreign regulations and risks that can come from other countries. Finally, I would conclude that if we ensure a stable financial backbone of the economic system, we will reduce the risk of insolvency of participants, which are assumptions and further future economic development and safe integration into European and international development projects. Finally, here's just to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15543	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the sad news. Today our colleague died in the earlier assembly of Mr. Vice Vukov, who had been in front of the Parliament for a long, long time, long time in a coma. Now his life's over. Vice Vukov was a man who in one noble way cherished and encouraged both patriotism and patriotism and his trail in Croatian culture will remain recorded in gold letters. Let's give him a minute's silence of honor, to this great Croatian culture. - A moment of silence - May it be his eternal glory and thank you. - Praise him. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, Vice-President of the House of Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15544	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the adoption of this law. However, we have some remarks on him. Even from personal experience, they can testify to the importance of such laws, their accuracy, their clarity and understanding of the importance of introducing order into the financial systems of the Republic of Croatia. In my professional life, I was involved in the application of these laws. A little while later, I helped others to apply and comply with the law, and I know how big a problem those laws are being passed, which are difficult to understand. My general or observation of us from the SDP club is on this bill that it belongs to that particular category. I read it carefully and it is indeed the result I would say one translation, one directive, a European directive. However, I think it is far from real life and that the fact that we have brought another element of our legislation in line with one European directive will not make much of a contribution to what is the objective of this law, which is to achieve better financial discipline and respect for the obligations that arise between business entities in mutual business. The proposer said in the opening statement that we had never had a law like this before. However, he did not say anything else, he said on the board, which is that this issue is regulated by some other already existing laws in our legislation. Maybe not as decadent and precise as it is here, but unfortunately this positive step is extremely complicated and incomprehensible. Those who need to apply this law will be confused, I'm sure in the first run when this law is passed, will be confused. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, I appeal to the legislators of the law not only to be translators of some bureaucratic European directives in the future, but to try this directive, to translate the content of this directive into a clear norm, into an understandable norm, to a norm understood by every financial employee, every obligation to apply this law. I also ask the question of whether we can bring our regulations in line with good practice and European Union rules into line with one of the key problems facing the Croatian economy, which is called insolvency. The word insolvency here is often mentioned. Data on the insolvency of business entities and the objective state of insolvency should be a permanent subject of analysis of economic and financial flows in the economy on which the Ministry of Finance must act on economic measures, not just such attempts to comply with Croatian and European laws. It's a good thing one who once gives a payment order to the payment system won't be able to withdraw that order anymore. However, this is not the main problem of the Croatian payment system. The main problem is that a payment order is not even put into the system. On the contrary, business entities find their obligations very problematic and very late. The insolvency data, unfortunately, are worrying. It is true that the Financial Agency, which is obliged to collect, unite, distribute and the data is not available to all relevant data on unsettled, and to meet the obligations of business entities. In fact, business entities are not obliged to submit payment orders if they do not have cover in their bank accounts for their payment. There is an exception, which is the obligation to pay taxes and contributions. So right now, we have a pretty clear picture of how unsettled there are and how many tax and contribution orders have been received. But we don't have any pictures, or we just have a partial picture of how many outstanding total liabilities there are between business entities, and that certainly includes the state. Therefore, very rare cases are that debtors submit orders for the settlement of their other outstanding outstanding liabilities, because they do not want to block their own account and thus question payouts or other obligations to which they give priority. And that's the problem. It's our biggest problem, one of the biggest problems in the business relations of the subjects. The latest data suggests that the trend of unsettled commitments continues as early as 2005 and clearly recognizable since 2006. Today the total value of outstanding orders is 15.8 billion kuna, and according to the same period last year is 21.5% higher. If we measure insolvency growth through its increase only this year, then we can say it's worrying that it's 10.5%. I ask the question of how this law will affect these problems, which is the problem of insolvency and that is the problem that investors or business entities with Croatia are reluctant to cooperate with. In the structure of total outstanding liabilities, the largest part refers to liabilities for more than 360 days. It's a full year. They're even 85.6%. I'm listening to the other day in the field of health medicines are being paid with a year's delay. It's a government fund obligation. How will this law affect this problem and correct it? The growth trend of insolvent legal persons whose number has increased in the last year by 12.5% continues. It is a lack of number of 3,000 new insolvency companies, undertakings that are unable to fulfil their obligations and which do not give those payment orders to the payment system. Such tendencies point to an increasingly unfavourable liquidity situation, and once again, no one pays anyone anything from the economy. Insolvent legal entities employed 30,000 500 people in June this year, a percentage of which means a slightly less than 10% increase in the last year. Of that number, most employees have legal persons who do not comply with their obligations for more than a year. How will these employees and their companies help and will this law ever help them? This suggests that it is only a matter of time before the workplace of the 30 and more thousand people is threatened or even abolished. In total outstanding liabilities, there are 4 activities. Trade, processing, construction and business services. This is approximately 4 activities of 82.5% of total outstanding liabilities. The trend of unsettled liabilities based on taxes and salary contributions and salaries of around 7 billion kuna continues. In a year these outstanding liabilities increased by almost 30% or 1.6 billion kuna. These are the data that must be concerned, and when we talk about how we're going to improve and reduce the risk of non-payment in this country, then we can't go over that data and we can't go over it. In both individuals, or craftsmen, the trend of growth continued. At the end of June of this year, a little less than 43,000 insolvent craftsmen were registered, representing an annual increase of 6%. 6% in a year. The number of employees in these craftsmen increased by 7% in the year. The unsettled commitments of craftsmen were at the end of June 5.2 billion kuna and increased by 9.5% in the last year. These aren't small percentages. These are the percentages to be taken into account, and apart from this formal law, we must offer solutions to prevent or reduce this serious problem in the economy. Insolvency certainly contributes to another growing indicator, the growth of the internal debt of the central state, as a result of the increase in the debt of the republican funds to the greatest extent. At the end of May this year, gross foreign debt reached 35 billion euros, which is 14.3% more than a year earlier. When someone doesn't pay you, and you want to do business, then you have to increase and unfavourable debt, and that's one of the elements that makes the entire debt of the state grow anyway. This increase in foreign debt in the majority refers to business entities, precisely companies whose debt is growing this year by more than 40%. The trend of direct foreign borrowing continues, and not because they like to be obliged, but because of the insolvency of many in the system, they are often forced to do so. With such indicators, we really need to ask ourselves how the Law on Finality of Peace, which we are harmonising our practice with the European one, will help resolve the problem of indifference that is increasingly suffocating the economy, and the government's reactions are not appropriate and are almost gone. On the contrary, the state itself does not respect the practice of a good economic operator, avoids the timely settlement of its obligations and is late in fulfilling its obligations and thus contributes to the same way as many legal entities to increase insolvency, i.e. the reduction of liquidity in the Croatian economy, i.e. in the payment system of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, I repeat, we will support this law with the appeal that future laws are written in simpler words, understandable to those who have to respect them and that other measures are adopted by law which will truly reduce insolvency.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15545	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Two false allegations. First, a colleague says that this law is decided and accurately regulated by the problem, and in the second step, it says that it is incomprehensible. So, it's either decoded and precise or incomprehensible. That quote is not, then, one of those two allegations is not correct. Secondly, I think the majority of the debate has been devoted to insolvency, and this law does not regulate insolvency issues. As we have seen, it is the law on the finality of intent in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments. This law does not address the insolvency problem, it partially prevents a chain reaction that a legal person's bankruptcy may have on the whole of the payload participants, i.e. in its business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15547	And Madam Representative Nevenka Majdanic. There you go, and there's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15548	Well, antunovic said that companies abroad are in debt because they are insolvent. On the contrary. In order for the company to be in debt outside, it has to be a positive business, so it has to be insolvent, so it has to be solvent, it has to be liquid because out there credits are not granted to those companies that are at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15549	Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is one law that will certainly contribute to business in Croatia today in a more normal way. That if you're in a position to sell something on the market that you can at least be a little bit more sure that you'll be able to charge for your service. The law regulates, as it is written, the finality of the settlement systems in the transfer order. The effect of the insolvency proceedings on the participant will have on its rights and obligations in relation to participation in the system and the rights of the recipient of the insurance instrument in the event of insolvency proceedings. The finality of the transfer peace is very important, so someone cannot after giving the transfer order and that it must be carried out and that its execution is not possible to refute. We have a situation in Croatia today that is quite unfavourable for those on the market, because in most cases you are not sure unless you make sure that service or goods are charged. What and how this problem is solved is not only by such laws, there are, above all, some other laws and some laws proposed by the SDP that a certain claim must be charged within 60 days. What certainly doesn't help today in Croatia, which is something that counterpart Antunovic said, is the debt of the central state. Although the debt, the external debt of the central state is being reduced somewhat, unfortunately the internal debt of the central state is growing more and more. I'm just wondering if the state could get into a situation where it's insolvent. Because when we have a health situation, especially when it comes to drugs, drug deliveries, they don't pay bills for over a year, whether the state is insolvent and whether this law could be applied to it. So we have to start from the state first and from the fact that the internal debt at the end of May this year was slightly larger than 63 billion kuna. Of course this law won't solve these problems. These problems lie elsewhere in the management of the budget and the way money is spent and the money is poured into the budget so we have no illusion that the debt of the state to suppliers will be resolved through one of these laws. I will support the law, because I believe that every shift in this area that makes it more difficult and in some way I would say development and in some way business of Croatian companies, every step forward is beneficial and therefore I will support this law, but we must be aware that the debt, the internal debt that today is in Croatia 63 billion kuna, will not be resolved by such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15551	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is Honorable Representative Maras, and already in the debate, Ms. Antunovic said of the health debt that I will quote: "The debts for medicines are not paid for more than a year". This really is not the correct data because the Government in the Rebalans budget in the 7th month provided 500 million kuna and all debts for medicines in health care were paid more than a year old. So this information is not really correct, and we also have to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry for their understanding. And the hospital system of 1.4 is working on new budgets, so all healthcare institutions are regularly paying for everything they order from the manufacturer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15553	Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15554	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, it is important to point out that this legislation regulates an area that has not been legally regulated so far. This law regulates the finality of the intention in the transmission order systems and the consequences of the insolvency proceedings against the participant in the system will be for his rights and obligations and on the rights and obligations of the recipient of the insurance instruments. It wishes to exclude the occurrence of legal risks exposed to payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments including the risk system. The application of this law will protect the domestic system when changing foreign rules on insolvency against a participant from another country and will improve the legal validity of the given insurance instruments. The two key amendments that the law adopts are to define the insolvency proceedings against the participant of the system which has, for the consequence, a temporary or permanent suspension or a restriction on the payment or transfer of the financial instruments of that participant in the system and to define the timing of the insolvency proceedings as the moment when the relevant decision of the competent authority is made. Generally speaking, this law creates assumptions for the elimination of risk in payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments which may arise in the event of the opening of insolvency proceedings against the participant of the system. Since the financial sector is one of the main areas of the entire economy, this law actually protects the stability of the Croatian economy. Finally, I must point out that this law has been built in accordance with the legal acquis of the European Union and it fulfils a part of the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia to comply with its legislation. I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15555	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the finality of the settlement in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments. And this is one of the legislative proposals that aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. So already said, this is a brand-new law that regulates an area that has not been governed by a special law in the Republic of Croatia so far. This law regulates the finality of the settlement in the transmission order systems and the consequences of the insolvency proceedings or insolvency proceedings against the participant in the system will have its rights and obligations in the system and on the rights and obligations of the recipient of the given instrument of insurance. Although the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council does not give the definition of the finality itself to settle the transfer order, it implies that the transfer order has been irrevocably and irrevocably implemented and that its enforcement is not possible to refute and annul. It's also important to say that transfer orders can be two types. The transfer order may mean a transfer order and the system in which the payment system is located. The second type is the order for the transfer of financial instruments, and the system in which it is placed is the system for the settlement of financial instruments, which is again defined by the Financial Capital Market Act. The two key amendments that this law makes to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia are as follows. First, Article 6 of this Act lays down the insolvency proceedings against the participant of the system, i.e. a bankruptcy which has a temporary or permanent suspension or payment restriction for the result or the transfer of financial instruments of participants to the system over which the bankruptcy proceedings are opened. The second key amendment also defines Article 6 of this Act, which defines the moment when the insolvency proceedings are opened as the moment when the relevant decision is taken by the court or by another competent authority, and since then, in fact, the legal consequences of that decision have no retroactive effect. When it comes to the moment, it is prescribed that transfer orders accepted in the system prior to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure are legally valid for third parties. They are valid and binding those transfer orders for third parties who are admitted to the system after the moment of bankruptcy only if the system manager can prove that he did not know or had to know about the opening of the procedure. The Croatian National Bank will keep records of the payment system to which this law applies, and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will keep records of the system for the settlement of financial instruments to which this law applies. The obligation of the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency to determine the system to which this law applies shall also be prescribed. As a result of all of this, it is necessary to adopt and support the Law in the final settlement in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial services, because it not only brings Croatia closer to the European Union but gives one necessary security in economic activities, not only to Croatian economic operators, but to give greater security to potential foreign investors, reduces the risk of their investment and financial and economic transactions in the Republic of Croatia. Because of that, full support for the passing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15557	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15558	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to say that this law actually regulates a new area on the one hand, so far it has not been governed by a special law, on the other hand, what is very important is implementing Directive 98/26 into Croatian legislation. This Directive is very important because it applies to payment systems and systems for the settlement of financial instruments to all participants in those systems and to all insurance instruments provided in connection with participation in those systems or supplied in the implementation of the tasks of the central banks of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Central Bank. It is important to stress that this law regulates the finality of settlement systems in the transfer order, where the transfer order is finally in place, actually implies that the transfer order has been irrevocably and irrevocably implemented and that its execution is not possible to refute or annul. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Third, the rights of the recipient of the insurance instrument in the event of insolvency proceedings against the provider of the insurance instrument shall be governed. What this law seeks to achieve is to exclude the occurrence of legal risks exposed to payment systems and securities settlement systems and other financial instruments. It also includes systemic risks. The domestic system shall then be protected from the application of foreign insolvency rules against a participant from another country and the legal validity of the given insurance instruments shall be improved. The adoption of this law will in any event eliminate the risk in payment systems and systems for the settlement of financial instruments which could arise in cases of opening insolvency proceedings against the participant of the system. Since these systems form the financial backbone of the economic system, the risk that could be extended to the whole economy will also disappear. Here, I've prepared my speech a little bit and cut short, and in the end I just want to point out that I'm giving full support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15559	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15560	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, at first, I have to say that every improvement in the legislative framework, legislative legislation, and in this part, we need to be welcomed, and in that sense we from the club will also support this improvement. But the fact is, we got two things wrong. It will not be a legislative framework without implementation and without a clear strategy to address the insolvency problem, and we have heard that it is present and that it is inescapable. In a conversation with the economies, if you ask them if something is attributed to the Government in 2000-2003, it means to Racan's government that has completely solved, more or less fully the problem of insolvency and indifference as a basis for the economy starting to develop healthy. And so the first result of that policy was that from economic growth which would have been -1%, so it was an economic downturn in '99. Year, economic growth 2002 and '03. It was recorded in Europe at 5 and 5.3%, respectively. Unfortunately, I have to say that according to all the information that the SDP Club presented and the vice president of this House, colleague Željka Antunović, we must ring the alarm. 3000 new insolvency companies only this year. 30,000 and 500 people are hiring, which is 10% of the increase in people directly involved in insolvency companies. Seven billion outstanding contributions. Compared to last year, it's a 30% increase. 6% increase of insolvent craftsmen with total craft capital in insolvency of 5.2 billion and 9.5 billion respectively. The mandatory relationship law that we have voted in this House does not provide for a period of payment, but a period of payment goes immediately after the service is carried out. However, according to what we are proposing constantly and in line with what the European countries are introducing just and because of the new Member States as a payment obligation is a shift from 90 to 60 days in Europe. Unfortunately, we don't have that 90-day deadline. What we've witnessed, and we've heard from our colleagues' exposure to Maras, is that the state is one of the biggest non-payments, or that the state is actually holding down a certain liquidity with low pay. And that's like driving down a road with one tape. When one brakes, everyone stops, or one slows down, they all drive. No matter how fast you have a car, on our highways that may be one of the most modern in Europe, when you come in front of a tube of St. The deadline in the middle of the tourist season of 150 or 130, depending on whether you drive below or above the limit, however you go, you must also brake in the tunnel of St. The deadline everyone goes slowly with no more than 50 and so on and at the settlement of financial instruments. And since the state is the largest economic entity, since the state has half what the Croatian people are creating, it is half the gross social product that was 275 billion for this year, i.e. For last year, 275 billion kuna. Since this is redistributed by the state, it is necessary for the state to introduce improved liquidity, i.e. to address this issue. When the state doesn't pay the big economic operator he'll still survive somehow, but he'll survive by not paying the small economic operator. It puts him at risk of doing business, pushing him at risk of unfavourable borrowing, finally pushing him into the necessity of increasing the price of his services, and increasing prices and services, the risk of unnecessary borrowing, i.e. Unfavourable borrowing also provides higher prices for these services and automatically and affects inflation. There was also talk about the debt of the county, there was a speech about the long health sector, and I must also say that there is a certain indicator of the indifference and debt of the county hospitals of over 5 billion. So these are the facts. It's something that statistics and it's something that can't be intonated in that way. The SDP sees the need to address this problem in the establishment of a single financial agency for large payer business, meaning large payments, which would form a central system, a central database of transactions themselves networked with banks' systems. It would mean that if someone doesn't pay someone something, if they become insolvent and insolvent, they will automatically ring red and they can automatically take these measures. Without those measures, we can't do it. But this means that certain other things should be initiated. The Court of Finance should also be introduced, meaning that it will quickly resolve financial disputes, not that financial disputes are resolved after several years, as it also compromises the risk of doing business itself. In order to introduce this, in order to register debtors in this way, in order to register those who are unable to comply with their obligations, the State itself should say O.K. We agree to this story and to be the first in that line to fight indifference which is quite difficult to expect from the present perspective since we have already heard what counterpart Maras said is the internal debt and indifference of the state at the level of 63 billion kuna. However, I also use this opportunity as an appeal for things to be considered in this regard, to try to consider colleagues from the ministry on the introduction of this model, which would in any case result in faster liquidity, and faster liquidity means a lower risk of companies on the market, and that means ultimately strengthening the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15561	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct my colleague Bernardic's incorrect allegations that the state needs to increase liquidity. That's not true. The State is also increasing liquidity by this law and by a whole series of other laws that have been adopted or adopted and that will certainly be stabilised in the short term. It just means, in addition to the measures that different ministries are prescribing through legal acts. It's like comparing here's the tunnel. The rock state finances and the end is the drilling of another pipe through the tunnel "St. As soon as I believe the liquidity will be improved, so will the flow of traffic through the tunnel "St. The deadline" in the same if not in a faster time to be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15563	The second amendment, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It would also correct the incorrect assumption, and it refers to the finding that by not paying its obligations the state generates insolvency and insolvency in the economy, which is absolutely not true. We all think that, and you said it yourself, that this story was interrupted somewhere in early 2000, and it is also not true that this non-payment generates an increase in interest rates, i.e. that interest rates have an embedded charge risk because the state does not pay its dues. The increase in interest rates and also the increase in savings interest in this year is exclusively conditioned by inflation, not by State default. So the state is at peace with its obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15565	Replica. Vice-President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15566	Thank you very much. Let me say again loudly again the main purpose and purpose of passing this law. She's absolutely positive. This law seeks to exclude the occurrence of legal risks exposed to payment systems, i.e. participants in the state payment system. Including what it says here is systemic risks. The systemic risk in payment systems is the risk that the inability of one participant to fulfil their obligations can result in the inability of another participant or other participants to meet their obligations on time. In other words, the adoption of this law should ensure that anyone who engages in a business, because here says it excludes risk, does not reduce but excludes risk, will no longer be exposed to the risk that his business partner is insolvent. My colleagues and colleagues, we all know that this law will not be settled. One segment relating to the moment of bankruptcy will be resolved, i.e. it is more precisely defined. I've said our laws so far, so we're not a banana state, we regulate that area. What's been 10 minutes? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15567	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15568	I didn't answer the line. I can see it now. I thought it was my turn to discuss it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15569	Then it's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15570	I'll have to sit down and do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15571	Yeah. Replica was actually Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15572	We have a similar name, but everything else is quite different. I have to replicate, because my colleague Bernardic also mentioned the indifference and debt of the state in health systems, so I am obliged to remind you that exactly debt in the healthcare system, small pharmacies endangers the ability of these pharmacies to work, and thus the constitutional right of small pharmacies to function in society, because it is the obligation of the state to pay within 120 days. However, it pays after 240 days. Thus, this creates the possibility for small pharmacies to take over large drug chains, which surely does not solve pharmaceutical services in the long term in a way that allows for the availability of medicines in all parts of Croatia in an equal manner. Therefore, 100 million debt per month is generated by pharmacies and, at the same time, behind 100 million kuna, increased hospital budget income. So we've got hollow holes, at the same time big damage to the expense of small pharmacists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15573	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15574	You have well touched on this colleague Jovanovic, what I want to say is that the intensity and debate of the SDP Club, namely the protection of companies, means the protection of those who protect themselves cannot and should be the intensity of this law. I, too, will refer to the debate, that is, to the correction of the incorrect allegations, by my fellow Huška, who mentioned that the state is trying to address these problems through the legislative framework. Well, of course, that's what needs to be done. But what is not good is that only the legislative framework will certainly not solve these problems on its own, nor will the risk of this business be eliminated, and something has been said by Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. I'm glad that in your replicas, the corrections of incorrect allegations, in some ways you also touched that the problem of liquidity was solved in 2000, but we can't keep quiet about it in 2008 if it shows up. And that was the intensity of my exposure, he was there, he was present, he showed up, he hadn't been at the same level since 2000 since he was then rescheduled and solved and needs to be dealt with. Just like I'm glad it was a highway when it started to build in 2002, built in three years, and I'm glad that since the highway was built, that second tube of tunnels will be built in the next three years. So here's the same thing I'm happy about, and I'd like to focus on a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15575	And Madam Vice President of the House, Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15576	Don't worry, I won't repeat what I said, but I'll only say one sentence so I can move on. So by passing this law, the risk of any business subject facing in his business relationship that someone to whom he has delivered goods or services does not pay those goods or services in time, or even the tendency not to pay him at all, will not be excluded. It may shrink, but it definitely won't. I also said there's no obligation to make business entities themselves when they don't have enough money in the account to block their account. I am very precise in my presentation on behalf of the club and clearly and without sensationalism presented facts and official data on the growth of liquidity, i.e. the growth of insolvency in all aspects, in size, in amounts, in numbers of business entities and in the number of employees these business entities employ. I will now repeat only one piece of information, which is that more than 30,000 jobs are at risk due to insolvency and insolvency problems in Croatia. And I don't see any reason, dear colleague, for us to push that problem under the rug. Let's not talk about this openly here in the House, to not ask for one more active approach from both the government and all the participants of economic life to this problem. Because unfortunately because of the lack of basic financial discipline, or the discipline of business entities in that financial system, we have a situation that some business entities that have no financial problems, who have available funds, do not pay their suppliers, because they do not bear any sanctions, or do not bear any serious sanctions, because they are easier to bear these sanctions and to be obliged. Why is this problem important and why do I not think we should push it under the carpet? Because such irresponsible or incompetent, insolvent business entities in a closed circle endanger both prospective and healthy business entities. And that happened to us in the '90s. A colleague said we stopped insolvency, or insolvency, not we reduced it, we never shut it down until the end. And what I was talking about and why I think we should talk about it and talk about it again is a serious trend of growth. He's coming back to us and he's jeopardizing us again, a problem we've already had and we've barely gotten out of. The question of how many countries participate in this risk creation or increase risk, so as to the extent that they participate in business relations, neither more nor less. We cannot, as agents, come up with information about the state of the Treasury, and therefore very public data is what the situation in the funds is like and information is about what is the state of financial discipline, that is, the settlement of its obligations in state-owned enterprises, how. Somewhere it is solid, and somewhere it is seriously problematic and it is large amounts and great delays in paying its obligations to suppliers. That's why it's totally unacceptable for me as an advocate, and I don't see any use for it, for example. A colleague picks up and says that in Croatian health care he is not late for payments. I'm two days ago on the radio Zagreb... listened to the official representative of the Croatian authorities who made it very clear and loud, the agreed payment deadline is 120 days, is 140 days late, meaning the total one that delivers the medicine to the Croatian healthcare system gets the money after 360 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you know what the problem is? They also survive major drugs and pharmaceuticals, all of them survive but they calculate interest on that late payment. And that's why I'm sure we're partly paying a higher price for the drug, and that's why it costs taxpayers and the state, and it creates a problem in all of that. So I really don't see the need to deny it, but I see a serious need to face this problem and try not to eliminate it because it doesn't go so easily, but to reduce those 140 days of delay to half-start. But if we pretend that this problem doesn't exist, if we're going to talk about great drugs living even if they don't get paid for a year then we won't make any contribution to this problem or to the problem that almost all business entities face. This is if, if we find an answer or if we find a legislative solution to how to truly increase financial discipline, by some measure, then we can talk about the possible exclusion of the legal risk of non-payment or insolvency and indifference which in the closed circle is destroying the entire economy. And certainly the role of the state in this is not zero but as much as that state participates in the overall economic events in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15577	Thank you. A few corrections and a few replicas. First the corrections. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here's a few words just for the correction of Madam Representative who said that today some companies have money without paying. And many more incorrect allegations, but I'll look back just to say that every company today has the funds, in any case from its supplier, is asking a cash register to pay in advance. No employer would be so smart that he wouldn't take advantage of that convenience. Today Croatian highways, Croatia roads pay all their performers their situation in advance and of course the same performers approve the casas conto of the same companies and these are state and public companies. Therefore, respected MPs are incorrectly all of what you have said because right in health care where the problems are not only in this year but for many years the Croatian government has secured two and a half billion where it has now reduced the debt of the state to suppliers. The lowest level. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15579	Correction Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm really going to correct an incorrect quote from the vice president of the Parliament that said that I said there was no delay in health care. I didn't say that. I said it's been over a year, your debts have been settled. And the debts you've been talking about, that the state's debt or county hospital is really a debt. No one in this assembly or the government escapes from that debt, and that's publicly said. And the second answer, by the way, that debt in the pharmacy system means prescription drugs, the highest in Croatian history was 171 days in 2001. So it's a permanent problem that's been going on for almost 12 years. So let's not take a rain check. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15581	Third correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic's incorrect quote, which concluded that the wholesales in their prices include both interest and the risk of State charges. I agree that this is a problem for wholesalers, but I also think that what bloats that price is that something that needs to be dealt with by the Competition Protection Agency to see if there is a outline of any cartel behaviour in the sense that prices are being negotiated and that it is actually choking the competition or quoting lower prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15583	Replications. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15584	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, when you mentioned that some of this stuff about indifference is being pushed under the carpet I wouldn't want to create such a tone in the Assembly but unfortunately I have a feeling that it is in some way encouraging. People say the path to healing starts with a diagnosis. So until you know what you're suffering from, until you know what's causing your sufferings and problems, you can't even begin to solve this problem. And the intensity of SDP's Club of Representatives, my personal intensities of all the MPs who are discussing this topic is not to show reality to those who are not, but to try to warn of certain problems in indifference. To negative trends. And I'd like all the MPs and I believe that there are those who argue in the direction of how these things are handled now while they can still get rid of it. I don't want us to deal with them when it's too late because without solving liquidity problems, which is just a necessary condition for the development of the economy. So the problem of indifference won't boost the economy. Let's not give that illusion. But without indifference, the economy is holding back. So, with the problem of liquidity, it means that it will not encourage the economy but it is a necessary condition that the economy could function well and normally we want really companies, small companies, those who are the most unprotected in the process to be protected. And the only way to avoid jeopardizing the risk of their business is, i.e. Addressing the problem of liquidity or liquidity. And I love and I want to believe in this, that in this House we can open a debate on these issues even how it is, even if it's problematic. So even if it is about something which is a trend, which is a fact, which is a problem so that these problems in the interest of Croatian citizens can be solved in the interest of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15585	A colleague, Mrsic, is not envisaged to correct the inaccuracy of the Rules of Procedure. Not provided Not foreseen, unfortunately. [[I'm sorry.]] Yeah. [[I was thinking of Mr Kovacevic.]] Reply to the replica of Vice-President Željka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15586	A fellow representative seems to me that you and I are not very different from seeing how insolvencies or insolvencies can endanger the entire economy or economy as a whole. But it is obvious that our thinking and fear of what will happen to the Croatian economy if this trend of growth of indifference continues, I repeat, is not the data that we in the SDP have collected, but the data that I have taken out of official sources, state-run choices of sources, sources that the state controls. But I'm saying with that attitude, others don't exactly agree. But personally, it doesn't matter to me who I agree with here or who I disagree with. I just want to do my job as Parliamentarians fairly and to make this Parliament and to ask the Government to do so, more actively include in reducing the risk of this law, reducing the risk to all business entities due to the failure to pay dues that have become a nearly normal rule of conduct in our economy and in our payment system. This is important to me and there are no such corrections, there are no such replicas that will prevent me from very reasoned and rationally insisting that we all have a responsibility together to seek solutions and help economic operators who ultimately pay taxes and contribute to the budget that we then schedule here to deal with as little problems as possible and with as little risk as possible that I cannot influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15587	The next replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15588	A colleague, Strikic, is paying attention to this irrefutable fact that the state remains, and not only remains, but it is becoming to an ever greater extent the biggest debtor. This stems from the statistics of the judiciary itself, where the state is again sued in most cases. And in most cases, he becomes a common litigator. So this bogeyman of indifference that the state, therefore, generates itself. Here, today, there has been a special emphasis here on these debts of the state through HZZO that he owes to the pharmacists. That $3.4 billion debt with a payment of more than 240 days is something that is seriously worrying. It first endangers the weaker ones and first the weaker ones suffer in such one non-payment and in such a spiral that then acts in a fatal way for the entire economy. Moreover, not only does the state have economic serious repercusions and economic morality, but it does not only for overall business morality but also for civil morality in general. The state itself must show the citizens to carry out its obligations. How can she ask Jank and Mark for something if she didn't pay for it herself and create conditions in that situation, possible conditions, a great position for corruption to pay someone, not to pay someone. So, what does this show? That even today in Croatia, therefore in 2008, religious and debt relations continued to be a question and the demand for creditors remains the last hole on the track.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15589	And the next replica, Mrs. Kristica Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am, unlike other colleagues, going to say that in part of the debate with Mrs Antunovic, I agree exactly in the part where she talked about late payment obligations. In your debate, you were apostrophe to state institutions on late payment. However, whether knowingly or unconsciously you skipped the largest, second largest entity in the Republic of Croatia at default, which is the City of Zagreb. We must say here that the City of Zagreb is the largest financial entity where we face huge problems of non-payment, which is only to mention some of which I have been meeting some days and heard these problems from our business owners and our businesses working for the City of Zagreb, which is “low-building” and “High-building”. Not colleagues 40 days to be late, but late payments for a year and our entrepreneurs are placed in a very difficult position. It also comes to the fact that some of their firms have to close down. So please, I did, and I said I agree in part of the debate, but you need one big problem as well to take up this problem as we all here in the assembly that great attention to non-payment, to focus right here on the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15591	Replica reply, Vice-President of the House of Representatives Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15592	Well, honestly, I didn't particularly apostrophe anyone. I don't remember apostrophe of the state as a state, at least not in this individual presentation that you've replicated to me. I was saying, for me is the state and the City of Zagreb and the City of Velika Gorica and the Municipality of Pusća, it is all a public sector. I have said very precisely that each of these participants participates in this closed circle of non-payment non-payments as much as they participate in the total business, economic or intimate business in any market or in this society. The fact is that the City of Zagreb budget seems to me 8 billion and countries 80 and more. Therefore, the City of Zagreb in its percentage, the state in its percentage. However, there were also words here about some non-payments, and again some dared to call on some of the past times, a long time ago. And I'll just tell you that in the twelfth month of '99. when legal entities were inequitable for 26 and a half billion, that in the 12th month of 2003 they were inequitable for 12 billion and 800 million kuna, and that in the sixth month of 2008, they were inequitable for slightly less than 16 billion. Individence growing was the City of Zagreb, whether it was the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whether it was the Croatian Road, whether it was the Pension Fund or the Health Fund. All this increases the risk and prevents business and distances from us international exchanges, investors and all those who are used to order, because there is no order with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15593	Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, I'd just like to get back to the beginning of this debate. The Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament has expressed one appeal and suggestion to the government and I can absolutely support and accept it in any case. So, about the comprehensibility and clarity from the title and the laws themselves. In this context, I must also relate to this law, as we later heard in the debate, not regulated and not intended to resolve the liquidity issue, i.e. potential insolvency in payment systems at the level of the entire economy. It regulates and actually prescribes a specific segment, which is the finality of the settlement in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments. However, also, let me through the debate to say that the mentioned state and I, of course, are in this context, and I need to answer, so that it is working and on, I can say so in two fields in which to improve, increase liquidity and maintain a satisfactory level of liquidity in the system. One is through the legislative framework. This is what the executive power in this esteemed House is and sends, or proposes, certain legal acts, among other things. I'll also relate to one that together, we can so say monetary and fiscal authorities are building, it's a law that will further improve and regulate payment systems more effectively. However, not only is the legislative framework affecting the increase in liquidity, but it is also real actions, i.e. measures. I will not talk, of course, about the measures of monetary authorities, but you all know very well at daily and weekly level in which the Central Bank maintains a satisfactory level of liquidity, as well as the state within its capabilities and within, of course, the budget. We've heard a lot of comments here and debates about outstanding outstanding obligations. Of course, it is one challenge that the executive authority faces and is ready to fight, and I think it is also very visible from last year and also from this year's budget. I'm sure today in the follow-up of the day when we're talking about these two points of the agenda we're actually going to say that in more detail. However, since we have already reached out among other things to these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that I think we all agree are the main drivers of overall economic growth, and that is something that we all here really advocate and want to see, I would still refer to one segment of the executive government, namely the fiscus, which is precisely the focus on increasing liquidity through the system, now and earlier return of VAT. Something we've been pushing for over the past year, it's coming true now. I think that these entrepreneurs give us all a very clear signal that this is exactly how they are able to return VAT faster and more efficiently, their liquidity actually increased further. And as far as this data is concerned, I'd only refer to the esteemed representative regarding the domestic, or internal debt of the central state. In any case, I am pleased that the publication of the Ministry of Finance is used and read, however, I would only refer to it as one monthly data, so when we add up all months of 2008, it will be the fourth year in a row in which the debt of the general government, i.e. the public debt, falls towards the share of the gross domestic product and in any case the state thus seeks to affect the reduction of the problem in the economy, we have touched the stories and problems of liquidity, i.e. insolvency. Also, let me just briefly, I have in front of me, so one addressed amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 15 that I can say is acceptable and that the government will adopt it, or accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15595	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15596	3. The final proposal for a law on finality rests in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments, is an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 150. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The applicant's representative accepted these amendments on the occasion of the debate and did not need to vote on them. I am voting on the final draft law on the finality of the settlement in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find it unanimous with 100 votes for the adopted Finality Law to settle in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15597	We are going to the next item - Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007. Proposer: Croatian National Bank The Croatian National Bank submitted this report in accordance with Article 58(1). The law on the Croatian National Bank. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget, for the Economy, for Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Croatian National Bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15598	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. During the meeting in March, you discussed this Annual Report of the CNB which we made in the autumn of 2007, which was dominated by two groups of objections and criticisms. The first of these concerned the incompleteness of the report in the section on the management of international reserves, the financial results of CNB’s business and the work of the supervisory board. And the second group was a direct criticism of planetary policy, particularly exchange rate policies and the immobilisation of the liquidity of the banking system with an assessment that such a policy could bring the country into crisis and pose a serious problem when entering the European Union. There have also been calls for some alleged views of the institutions of the European Union. As regards the first group of objections, and I believe that there is a misunderstanding, i.e. the non-diversity in the annual report, which focuses on the nature of things, on the analysis of current, planetary and economic developments and the integrated annual report, which presents all aspects of the work and operation of the CNB on the basis of the full annual data. So I hope you could find answers to some of the questions you asked back then in this annual report. As for the other group of objections and criticisms, I would point out the following. The monetary framework, which rests on the stability of the course, has ensured low inflation and financial stability. Taking into account the degree of openness of the Croatian economy and the currency substitution of the CNB, there is almost no alternative in such a policy. The measures taken last year to limit the foreign borrowing of banks and excessive credit growth yields the desired results, thus contributing to limiting the country's external vulnerability. The growth of credit has slowed down, while foreign debt by business banks has decreased sharply. At the same time, the increase in the credit activity of non-banking financial institutions was limited. In view of these developments, the standard indicators of quality, activity and profitability remained high, showing that the financial system was not threatened by direct dangers, particularly in the context of the recapitalisation of banks that were driven by the credit and administrative measures of the CNB had a positive impact on the capital adequacy rates. However, some risks remain present. First, limited exchange rate flexibility largely contributes to the euroisation of the financial sector and favours unprotected foreign currency borrowing. Therefore... kuna courses could negatively affect the ability of the non-financial sector to service its debt and thus reduce the quality of the active banks. Secondly, with the start of the credit market turmoil in the summer of 2007 further potential risks were created in the banking sector related to the dependence of Croatian banks on the continued availability of their parent banks' funds. Although banks took certain steps during last year to create and extend the domestic deposit base, their foreign funding exposures remained high. That is why a major disturbance in these flows could have negative consequences for the Croatian banking sector and the economy as a whole. Third, given the administrative measures imposed by the CNB to limit credit growth. Some parts of the company's sector have increasingly turned to foreign borrowing and have been directly exposed to financial conditions in international markets as well as to the oscillations of foreign interest rates rates. However, this source of funding in view of the global tightening of credit conditions could become less attractive in the upcoming period. Taking into account all these risks, the monetary and exchange rate policies of the CNB or the maintenance of a stable exchange rate and the application and tightening of a series of administrative and prudential measures favoured the resilience of the financial system and made an adequate contribution to the mitigation of external vulnerabilities. In view of the strong inflow of capital, the CNB does not have many other options available to it other than the retention of existing measures in order to mitigate the impact of capital returns on credit growth, inflation and the current balance of payments account. Given the overall success his policy achieved in 2007 The CNB decided to apply the same measures also in 2008 mainly to limit credit growth to 12% and to tighten capital requirements for banks. However, it should be noted that Croatia's ever-increasing approach to the European Union could require the modification of some of the instruments currently used by the CNB to implement its policy. In view of this, the efforts of other policies to strengthen the financial system are more than welcome. Fiscal policy continues to play a key role in addressing macroeconomic challenges, especially with regard to the recent emergence of inflationary pressures, the co-ordinated increase in current account deficits and increased foreign debt levels. In view of this, the latter is increasingly relying on domestic funding, it is considered correct. Although the fiscal consolidation direction aimed at balancing the budget by 2010 is very desirable... to support the CNB's efforts aimed at halting inflation growth, addressing the issue of external vulnerability. The same goes for plans to stop a relative increase in state expenditure, as it would increase fiscal flexibility in the event of potential shocks. At the end of a structural reform aimed at improving the business environment, it would increase the potential for higher economic growth in Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these formulations and evaluations of the activities of the CNB in 2007 will not be found in our report. For the purpose of this presentation, I took them from the document "The Review and Assessment of Monetary and Currency Policy in Croatia", which was made by the European Central Bank and which, as the official views of the European Union, are pictured to the Croatian side in the talks on the implementation of the pre-accession economic programme. We don't have to agree with all the details in those grades, and neither can they replace their own grades. Their own thoughts are by no means and cannot be the basis for operational action. But you should not forget the old saying that man is not what he thinks of himself but what others think of him. Especially when these other competent institutions, which in their segment of action, assess whether we are ready and able to be responsible for membership in the European Union or only one thing we talk about, and the other we do. I will stick to the Rules of Procedure and I will not talk about current events, but I would just say that both current events in the world and in us stress the importance of assessments and attitudes that I have previously presented to you. The fact that we are not facing some of the problems facing other countries today is the result of the activities of the CNB as it was in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15599	Thank you. The committees. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, chairman of the board, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15600	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Governor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 12 June 2008, the Croatian National Bank Annual Report 2007 was discussed by the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the provision of Article 58(1). The Croatian National Bank Act was submitted by the Croatian National Bank since 28 May 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as a parent working body. The discussion on the Committee noted that most of the data presented in the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007 were already included in the half-yearly report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007 and that there is no need to discuss them further. It is expressed satisfaction that the Croatian National Bank noted the comments made in the debate on that half-yearly report and cited in the 2007 annual report the performance indicators of the management of international reserves, as well as the subsequent delivery of the requested data on the direct supervision of banks in the period 2004 to 2007. In addition, a question has been raised regarding the reconstruction of savings-credit banks into savings banks. A representative of the Croatian National Bank informed members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament that only one request for the establishment of a savings bank has been approved so far, while two requests have been rejected. By the end of this year, there will be an accurate number of savings banks to operate in the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian National Bank will strictly monitor compliance with the conditions for the establishment of savings banks. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007 is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15601	Thank you. The Economic Committee? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Governor of the Croatian National Bank, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007 is indeed more extensive and visible than the report for the first half of 2007. The macro-economic movements, the international environment, economic activity, monetary policy instruments, banking sector, payment turnover, vault operations, international co-operation are particularly detailed and there are some indicators in terms of supervision of the banking system and the management of international foreign exchange reserves and a brief financial report. The report specifically lists banks and housing savings banks, presentation of management and internal structure of the Croatian Bank, and ultimately a brief conclusion. The report and the presentation of macroeconomic indicators show that in 2007 there was a high real growth in the Croatian economy of gross domestic product, an increase in employment and a decrease in unemployment, and a slowdown in foreign borrowing growth, but at the same time there was an acceleration in inflation rates and an increase in the deficit in the current balance of payments account. In terms of faster inflation growth due to negative shocks both on the side of supply and partly on demand, the Croatian National Bank maintained the stability of the nominal exchange rate towards the euro in order to maintain price stability. The Central Bank also acted on a strong slowdown in growth... Banks thus reduced foreign debt of banks and achieved slower growth of foreign debt of the economy as a whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Increased infrared pressures were one of the basic features of the macroeconomic environment in 2007, and the annual rate of change in the consumer price index increased by 2% at the end of 2006 to 5.8% in December 2007. The presence of infrared pressures coming from the demand side is, among other things, a high increase in available resources for the population and a significant acceleration of the real annual increase in personal consumption. The significant acceleration of the nominal growth of available money has mainly contributed to the return of debt to pensioners and to the increase of state transfers of the population. The repayment of debt to pensioners began in mid-2006 when pensioners were paid 2.4 billion kuna or 1% of gross domestic product from the base of debt returns, in 2007. 3.4 billion kuna or 1.2% gross domestic product. The annual state expenditure growth rate for social benefits was almost twice as high in 2007 as in the previous two years. The report noted that foreign debt by large state-owned companies increased by 1.2 billion euros in 2007, compared to 2006 when the increase was only 0.2 billion euros. The largest increase in foreign debt was achieved by road construction companies, whose intensive debt increased by 0.7 billion euros in 2007, and a year before their foreign debt increase of 0.2 billion euros. A large share of foreign debt growth in 2007 was owned by INA and local state-owned companies. The strong acceleration of the nominal growth of the available funds of the population and the money of the companies collected for borrowing abroad resulted in the acceleration of the real growth of domestic demand, which also enabled the acceleration of the real growth of the gross domestic product from 4.8% in 2006 to 5.6% in 2007. In line with economic activity during 2007 the labour market marked positive trends. Unemployment was registered in 2007, and at the end of the year 254 000 484 unemployed persons were registered in the Croatian Employment Service records, which is 13.2% less than at the end of 2006. The average registered unemployment rate was reduced from 16.6% in 2006 to 14.8% in 2007. In 2007, there was also a moderate growth in the average real GDP of 3.4% and net wages of 2.3%. The nominal effective kuna course was administered during 2007 by 3.2% mainly due to the strong nomination of the kuna course to the US dollar. During 2007, the years-long trend of reducing the interest rates of business banks to approved short-term loans was suspended. The interest rates on long-term loans continued to rise for currency-clause companies in 2006 and the interest rates on long-term loans to the population with the currency clause after the fall at the beginning of the year increased significantly in the second half of 2007. The dynamic movements marked the Croatian capital market in 2007 and allowed its accelerated growth and development to continue. Thus far, the largest annual turnover of the shares of 22 billion kuna has been achieved with the doubling of the number of transactions and the highest value of the Zagreb Stock Exchange Index CROBEX. Although the still-expressed credit activity of banks during 2007 has affected increased domestic demand and thus the growth of imports resulting in a deficit in the current balance of 3.2 billion euros or 8.6% of gross domestic product, which was 0.5 billion euros or 0.7% of gross domestic product points higher than in 2006. As in previous years, the increase in deficits is largely the result of deepening unbalanced foreign trade. Unlike the goods account on other current transaction accounts, better results were recorded than in 2006. The foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia increased by 3.7 billion euros during 2007, by 12.5% and at the end of the year was 32.9 billion euros. Debt growth slowed slightly compared to 2006 due to a decrease in foreign debt by business banks. The opposite effect had a strong increase in the debt of companies that increased by 3.9 billion euros in 2007. 41.6% on the annual level. The increase in foreign debt was higher than the increase of the nominal gross domestic product, and the ratio of the foreign debt of the gross domestic product increased by 2.3%, i.e. from 85.5% at the end of 2006 to 87.8% at the end of 2007. The increase in international reserves according to balance sheet data in 2007 was 722m euros, which was half as much as the year before. According to monetary statistics, the international reserve reached 9.3 billion euros at the end of 2007, which is enough to cover 5.2 months of imports of goods and services. The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007 also lists certain financial indicators that show that the total revenues from operations in 2007 are almost three times the total revenues of business in 2006 and that operating costs have increased 12% compared to 2006, resulting in a surplus of expenditure revenue of EUR 232 million 643 thousand compared to 2006 when the surplus revenue amounted to 270 million 184 thousand kuna. Finally, it should be pointed out that the real growth of the gross domestic product of the Croatian economy in 2007 was high, that labour market developments were positive, that the rise in government debt was slowed, while the inflation rate was at the same time accelerated, and the current balance of payments account deficit increased. During 2007, there was an deepened imbalance in the exchange of goods with abroad, but at the same time in other current transactions accounts, especially in the service account, better results than in 2006 were recorded. In 2007 capital and financial transactions reported a strong increase in net foreign direct investment in the Republic of Croatia, the amount of which exceeded the current account deficit achieved, while further increase in international reserves was also reported during 2007, and amounting to 9.3 billion euros on 31 December 2007 and thus increased 6.7% compared to 2006. The HDZ club will eventually vote for the conclusion that an annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15603	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15604	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed governor of the Croatian National Bank, the distinguished gentlemen of the parliament. So I note that my predecessor means on behalf of the HDZ in some way and that party has changed this relationship to the Croatian National Bank. Last year, Mr. Maric's report was unusually critical, and this year we see that the statement was maximumly cooperative. So something's going on and it looks like it's going better. Why is this report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007 important? Well, not so much because of what was happening in 2007, it's after us, but because of trends that were already in 2007 that might have suggested that it would hit 2008. In 2007, I agree, it was a relatively good year. But according to that Bible account after seven relatively good years, seven relatively difficult years seem to come to us. So let's take the turn, here on the page of the first annual report for 2007. The Croatian National Banks are said to literally quote in 2007 literally: "In the Croatian economy, high real growth in gross social products, increased employment, reduced unemployment, and slowed foreign debt growth has been recorded, but at the same time there has been an acceleration of inflation rates and... "The annual rate of change in the consumer price index increased from 2% at the end of 2006 to 5.8% in December 2007, with a significant acceleration of inflation achieved after July." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another sentence to read, the growth of other indicators and price developments also increased significantly during 2007, so the annual rate of change in basic inflation increased from 2.3% compared to 2006, to 2.4% in July 2007 and in December of the same year achieved this 5%, etc., etc. In one word, 2007 was a good year. In 2008, I have the impression that it's going to be one year... We live above the possibility and we may not have to pay policy sooner or later the understandable price of such a practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has begun to speculate now that the Croatian National Bank will reduce the growth of credit ratings from 12Z% to 9% even though the total growth of assets in 6 months 2008 was less than 2007. Large inflation, a strong demand for loans could force the Croatian National Bank to reduce the allowed growth of active banks. Namely, the governor announced that the bank's credit growth will decrease from 1% monthly to 0.75%. If that happens, credits will accumulate, citizens will be harder to get to the same, it's clear that something will have to be deprived. One word makes it harder for us to live. Someone says domestic consumption gets prices high. But now how to reduce that inflation that this report is talking about. That's the point. Whether it will be monetary policy, meaning high loans, whether it will be fiscal policy, means taxes, whether it will be pay policy, lower wages or exchange rate policy, means stronger kuna, it remains to be seen. It seems that there will be higher loans in us and lower frozen salaries, pensions should not be discussed or discussed, a lower course which will further demotivate, demotivates exporters, and we will probably have to correct pension separations to more. Why? Well, here's a recent Mr. Hrelja, who is not here unfortunately, announced that if Christmas Christmas is not paid out of the coalition, the clan could have been done out of the capital fund, but this year from that almost bankrupt fund that lost 45% of its value due to these stock trends, it won't be possible, but I expect clear money to be found in the budget. What does the Croatian National Bank mean? It restricts, or tries to limit that domestic consumption, means to control the purchase, whether it's good, it clearly slows down economic growth on one hand, it raises the price of money, but it dims it, so to speak, exporters, it's a terrible thing for importers, especially these large trade chains, and some of the leading people of some financial institutions. Let's look at the Croatian reality, in 2007, the import was $25.8 billion, so 25.8 billion, that's the data, the Croatian National Bank reports, so plus 13% at the annual level. However, it is said in a further sentence that the imports are still reduced. Why is it reduced and listed, meaning because of the gas pipeline's operation from the Istrian submarine to the interior of Croatia, means that domestic gas is dropping imports, and we are now announcing the sale of INE. Clearly, the gas didn't come to Pula, but no, not to Pula, not to Poreč or Labun, it's more like Split than those cities, because I don't seem to know, the government is in charge of that, and I'm giving it to whoever doesn't vote for me. On the other hand, we see goods being exported, in the amount, we will talk about it later in the budget execution, and on the other hand, goods worth $12.4 billion have been exported. Let's just say one thing, Istria exports about a billion dollars a year, 2007. The coastal-goran County $550m, meaning our export is about $600 million bigger, but that's why we're not familiar with the privatisation of the Uljaniks, which can be without guarantees and without recovery and is not on the kuna at the expense of the state, but on the contrary, the state can make regular income from it, taxes, contributions and so on. And just one sentence, since I mentioned it, why not that privatisation? Because the new owner can shut down his competition because a company that's 150 years old has been kind of in cahoots with the state or in state hands can hardly handle such a change and on the other hand, aren't one Oilman, one tanker with the government, and that should be emphasized, pulled Lenac out of bankruptcy. So I'm taking this opportunity to just say, if there's privatisation, then that privatisation should go according to the model of the Uljannik shipyard, even if I'm against it. On the other hand, I see tendering for the sale of these five shipyards, no one is likely to buy any shipyard except the Uljaniks, or perhaps where it is possible to redeploy the activity because of those properties etc.. But let's not be too long about it. It's also enough that shipbuilding in this country, except for the Oilies, is doing $20 million in losses. And surely in one such practice, subsidies etc., there is a lot to be said. Dear gentlemen, as absurd as it was in 2003 to sell INU, i.e. That 25% plus one share with 50% management rights, I think it's just as absurd to think about privatising INE 2007. So INA holds, I don't know, the best pumps, locations in Croatia, and there are gas reserves, oil in the sea around Istria, Pannonia, Egypt, Syria, Angola for at least 40, some say 100 billion kuna. And finally, if we do that, who will control oil prices, etc., etc. What could possibly be the key, I'd say maybe survival that we'll soon figure out is whether this country will succeed in increasing that export? I want to believe that we're going to figure it out soon or we're going to produce it as a nation, I don't know, maybe even in some mutual conflict because it won't be for pensions, not for the return of credit, not for development, not for health care, and so on and so on. I'm the last one who'd want that to happen. God forbid it happens, but we're on our way to showing between this and this report. In 2004, foreign debt in the Republic of Croatia was 22.9 billion kuna, according to data from the Croatian National Bank. It goes up to 25.7 billion kuna in 2005. In 2006 to the 29.3 billion kuna. 2007 to 32.9 billion kuna. 2008 will be at least 37.5 pardons not kuna but EUR 37.5 billion, and in 2010, maybe 45 billion and more. And it will clearly pull out those who work and those who export and who mean us precisely those companies to hold my mouth above the water. That's why I'm saying that if Croatia really wants to start thinking about it and not every such investment that once in 10 years tries to tell Croatia in advance, we try to say in advance: "No." One word is enough of that redistribution. In this country we need to start working. But clearly one who promises such a policy will lose the election in this country of absurdity smoothly. But to return to this consumption that the Croatian National Bank is trying to curb. The report said consumer prices were about 2% in 2006. 2007 in December means 2007. 5.8%. And in the 8th month of 2008, they were over 8.5%. What's the problem? Okay. Oil has reached one interval and $150 a barrel this year. Today she's somewhere up to 100. But what affected this price staker in the 7th and 8th months? I claim first of all a deal from merchants who keep the store for a while. At least it doesn't make sense to me. Just that clear with this expensive oil, expensive loans can hold water. The role of government I think this summer was marginal. They were diving, swimming, sailing, playing with children in the sand, and the country was literally taken over by wholesalers. Only 5 traders in the Republic of Croatia held 54% of the Croatian market in 2008. So that's a retail sale. Let's say food. These are: Konzum, Metro, Mercator, Gatro and Bill. And another five: Plots,... , Kerum, Tom, Tommy and Studenac come up to 74% and the first 15 merchants mean they keep 80% of the store a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People came from these big chains, they sat down, they made a deal, and they went with the stampede prices. Well, these 15 traders with their policies can take down the government whenever they remember. And even here, I would dare say, the government helps, so in 2007, we record a game of stock supplies in a way that exports of 400 thousand tonnes of wheat at a price of EUR 100 per tonne of which as much as 200 thousand from the stock reserves. And then we approved an intervention import of 100 thousand tonnes at a price of EUR 250 per tonne. So we've exported 400,000 tonnes for 40 million euros and we've imported 100,000 tonnes for 25 million Euros and no one in this country can say "A". Who earned it? He earned Agrokor. When it came to mind. I claim that there has been an intention since the beginning then the export of cereals is prohibited. High export customs duties shall be introduced. After that, the exports of cereals clearly cease. But what's going on? Then comes the export of flour. And they're still making money. People pay. We keep quiet and everything goes round and round and round and round and round and round For the end, this report must be useful. We need it here and there a little look behind us. See what's waiting for us. The future isn't great. It won't be easy for sure. For the end, let the Government and the Croatian Bank agree on how to proceed? He can't go on with each other's woods. It's a dangerous policy. Slowing the growth of assets threatens small banks. Some may be threatened by existence as if we were playing a game of taking over these small banks overnight. That's what I'm afraid of because a few more of them exist in the same one. Am I out of time or am I still right? I don't have any more. [[You don't have one.]] This is bright. All in all, here is to conclude if we are to launch Croatians, clearly if we get rid of this war of inefficient administration and corruption I think that the cooperation of the Croatian National Bank and must be more intensive than it has ever been. One word from the IDS Club votes for this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15605	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15606	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, let me correct this one claim I hold that and, I'd say it's not good, and of course it's not true when you said the government is giving, I don't know, to those who vote for it. It doesn't give to those who don't vote and so on. So it's just not good to talk like that in this House because it's not even true in the end. The truth is that Croatia has, the Croatian Government has a strategy for... The Croatian and Croatian governments are equally responsible for all parts of the Republic of Croatia, for all regions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So both for Istria and Dalmatia and for Slavonia and for everything, for what is in her jurisdiction. However, responsibility is certainly on the county side, and they must make their contribution. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15607	And the correction of Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15608	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Cain's, besides the others, incorrectly saying that INA has taken all the most favourable locations as far as the gas stations are clearly concerned. Here we can quote INA's union that claims exactly the opposite. That the INA administration just didn't bother to take the most favourable locations, and they know they're on the highway. I would also say that by now I don't know what time my colleague Cain is talking about the investment ratios and the number of voters who voted for the ruling coalition, but I must say that they are the majority. So if even development is no wonder to invest, if it invests and equally invests in those areas where the government is supported. But I wanted to say a balanced development that is extremely important and not only swears by the Government but also by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15609	Thank you. Correction Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15610	Mr. President, my correction if my colleague Cain allows to refer to the same questions the predecessors spoke of, with that he should except what his colleague said... even development, and in general, therefore, should have a look at colleagues of Kai's points to discuss about the state budget, the calculation of the state budget is, so these figures that we see inside if you read clearly speak quite the opposite of investments in Istria, rather than what you want to show with your claim that this government invests in those areas where there are actually voters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that doesn't suit the truth. That's what I was going to say, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15611	Thank you. We're still gonna end up at the clubs, and then we're gonna have a break. On behalf of the SDP, Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15612	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Governor, colleagues and colleagues. So I could also start by correcting the inaccuracies of the esteemed representative Damir Cain when he said the past government sold 25% of the INA shares to 50% of the management rights actually which is not true. The contract is public, located on the portal in both Croatian and English editions. But I don't think it's the subject of that debate. Today's subject is the report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007. According to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, the task of the Croatian National Bank is to execute it in front of all of us, Croatian society and to report here at the Croatian Parliament is to maintain price stability. The issue is raised in today's conditions of Croatia's openness, which is a small country as far as it has the opportunity to influence this price stability goal. Namely, the price can generally be two types of inflation. It is one that arises below increased demand, and the other is created by an increase in costs. The increase in demand occurs if too much money is broadcast. We've had this situation in years ago. Money mass grew in Croatia, the purchasing power of Croatian citizens increased. But there was no inflation, but there was another effect. In an open country situation, if there are no domestic goods and services, then these goods and services are imported from abroad, so that higher demand does not mean that there will be higher prices in a small country. And this is one of the opportunities that the central bank has, in this case the Croatian National Bank has. But that instrument is strong in the situation of a closed country when you cannot import goods and services. You can then regulate or affect prices by regulating credit potential and placements. Inflation that has now come to Croatia is actually an import inflation by increasing energy and food prices on the world market and in this case, the Croatian National Bank could not have had a significant impact on this type of inflation and could not have had a significant impact without some possible negative effects. Right? On the other hand, inflation needs to be cared for in Croatia by other instruments, other policies than fiscal policy. However, according to the inflation reactions that occurred, which appeared now in Croatia, and especially in the government or prime minister's reactions when he asked traders and producers to reduce the price then shows that the system does not actually work, because the system itself must act automatically to curb inflation. The prime minister's appeal to cut margins, not to increase prices, shows in fact that competition does not work in Croatia. And we, in our accession to the European Union, need to carry out a chapter of protection and improvement of competition on the one hand, and since these rules on competition protection cannot foresee all future situations and despite the good law that could be made in accordance with the European Union, monopoly situations may arise, individual companies may come into a monopoly position and may abuse this monopoly position. Therefore, in addition to the rules on the protection of competition and the development of competition, rules should be laid down on the definition of monopoly, monopoly behaviour, abuse of a monopoly position and the punishment of how to punish a monopoly position. We don't have it in Croatia. Thus, here in the price management segment, these other three, four elements should be further developed – the protection of competition, the definition of monopoly behaviour and the punishment of abuse of the monopoly position, and then the prime minister should neither be asked nor pressed, but simply apply the system which will be clear to everyone in advance. Otherwise, we as a Parliament are concerned about the overall economic policy of which one element and monetary policy is with fiscal and other policies. All policies aim to raise the standard of Croatian citizens. If inflation is 5 and 6 and 7% and 8% and 10% of Croatian citizens' standards will be higher if wages rise higher than inflation is growing, not entering now whether the salary increase will result in an increase in cost of price production. The increase in wages must result in an increase in the added newly created value, i.e. from an increase in domestic production. Of course, the Croatian National Bank may indirectly increase domestic production, but directly not so much. It is the subject of industrial, regional and other policies. As a small country, however, if it increases production, it cannot significantly increase in this situation on the domestic market, but this increase in production should be directed towards exports. And now we come to another goal or sub-target of monetary policy, which is like Mr. Governor said is the stability of the course. Now it seems to me that in the past eight months, the Croatian National Bank has tried to affect the reduction of import inflation to Croatian prices by reducing the rate. The definition was to keep the course stable. For example, a year ago it seems to me that the course was about 730 kuna for 100 euros, today it is 710 kuna. Now, here I'm just asking how, in the long run, this will affect the competitiveness of Croatian exports, if the exporter received 730 or 735000 kuna a year ago, today it gets 710000 kuna if its cost of production is, say, 711 or 715 etc. thousands of kunas. We are a little on the slippery ground, and if such a policy continues for sure in the long term, it will damage the competitiveness of Croatian exports and thus Croatian production. Of course, with the great responsibility of Croatian citizens whose loans are tied to the foreign exchange clause now they have fewer wars. But if there were such an unserious question. Yes, we have fewer wars and fewer loans, but if this weakens the economic efficiency of the exporters of production, so there is not enough revenue to cover the costs so the salaries are paid, in one final case we will have a little less prices, but one or a significant number of citizens may be left without pay. I note this because inflation is the most complex phenomenon in the economy, and it cannot be solved by simple measures, but must be solved as a complex problem through complex measures of all economic policies, including part of monetary policy. If we leave it only at the Prime Minister's appeal and leave it only at the Croatian National Bank for the reduction of the course, then we won't get far with that policy and then I wonder if the effects will be more positive, more negative than we wanted. Our next problem is import growth. A few years ago, there was talk about us being in the current balance sheet deficit, for example, our most visible balance sheet is the trade balance, in 2006, the trading balance deficit was 11 billion 111 million dollars, and in 2007, the trading balance deficit was 13 billion and another million dollars. The total current balance has increased. The difference between domestic consumption and domestic production is seen in the current balance sheet deficit. Everything we are, saying generally with quite little tolerance, and everything we spend over a year than we produce, we import that difference between domestic consumption and domestic production ends in external debt sooner or later, generally using. And these data are true that there has been a slowdown in external debt growth when seen on a percentage basis, but three billion euros in debt to 20 billion is one percent, and three billion euros in debt to 30 billion is the second percent. So that's, you could say one optical trick to us is actually this external debt is absolutely growing, just because it counts on a larger base, then we say that we've come to a more percentage of the growth of external debt. So when we look at the efficiency of the overall economic policy, then, I think, in a small country like Croatia and the open country, we should start with external debt and see what its sources are. The problem of external debt is that we have to pay it by exporting goods and services of our own production. Thus, without increasing domestic production, there are no higher salaries that will be above inflation, without increasing domestic production there is no reduction in the gap between exports and imports. If we don't increase domestic production there won't be an increase in wages, we won't be able to repay the external debt, and in the end it will end if I don't have my own products and services that we will be paying external debt directly and indirectly to national property, and I don't think it's a goal and it's not good. As for the management or regulation of the banking market, that's what I said last time, it actually shows that the bank's profitability has been higher so far and will still be higher than the profitability remained in the economy. Again, the question arises whether Croatian banking shares the fate of the Croatian economy or if the nominal banking market is not monopolistic, it may be a bit bankingistic, if we can't see by its nominal appearance that it is monopoly or olympic, then perhaps by the profit of the banks we could conclude that it is a little harder or by its behaviour that it is monopolistic. The Bible, if you do not know the tree tree, is known for its fruit, and the fruit here is slightly higher than the rest of the economy. Also in Croatia as an open country, the question arises as to how the Croatian National Bank can affect the overall debt. It can affect the overall responsibility, which it does through the banking system with these special rates of mandatory reserves, but now companies are no longer in charge of Croatian banks but in fact preparing here papers and going directly to banks, with their parent banks in Vienna, Germany, Italy, etc. So we have reduced one debt through the institution of domestic banks, and our companies are directly in charge abroad and thus the external debt is again increasing. The overall policy task is not only to look at the debt of the state, to look at the debt of the banks, but to manage the economy to see how much our economy and our society are in charge, whether through banks, businesses or through the state, and this is the task of the overall economic policy, not just the Croatian National Bank. There is another provision in the Law on the Croatian National Bank, Article 6 which points to the cooperation of the Croatian National Bank with the Government and other institutions of government, and this report is not particularly specific as far as I have noticed. There is co-operation with international institutions here, there is not really a report that the Croatian National Bank has collaborated with other institutions of the state. First of all, with fiscal policy because it is known that monetary policy also has major effects on fiscal policy and fiscal policy on monetary policy, etc. All in all, this report is very high-quality, there are no objections, and I think that in the Parliament in the situation in which Croatia is located, we should open the question of the overall economic policy. In fact, we should see how consistent our policies are, in accordance with each other, how fiscal with monetary, how fiscal and monetary with industrial, with regional, competition policy as we should also make a policy of protection against monopoly behaviour and abuse of the monopoly position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15613	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government at 14 am at the hall "Stepan Radić" today, so 24. Notify the chairman of the committee, Zvonimir Mršić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to interrupt the session now. We'll continue at 3:00. The first in a single debate is Milivo Škvortz, then Vesna Buterin and so on. I wish everyone a pleasant and pleasant holiday.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15614	I propose that my colleagues and colleagues continue the afternoon debate on the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007. As the chairman announced before the midday break, Milivo Škvortz, a fellow MP, was the first to come forward, is not present in the assembly. So he loses his right to debate. Then it's time for my colleague, Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15615	In 2007, it can be concluded that the real growth of the Croatian economy's gross domestic product was high, it was 5.6%, labour market developments were positive where I would stress that a decrease in unemployment rate of 13.2% was recorded with the same growth in employment. I would also like to emphasise that in 2007, the historic lowest unemployment rate of 9.6% was reached and I would like to stress that the increase in foreign debt was slowed in 2007. Negative foreign supply shocks resulted in a noticeable rise in consumer price inflation during 2007 especially in the second half of the year. During 2007, the Croatian National Bank ran monetary policy in an environment marked by a strong acceleration of the nominal growth of available funds to the population. It was precisely a significantly accelerated nominal growth of available money that mainly contributed to the return of debt to pensioners and the increase of state transfers to the population. The repayment of debt to pensioners, which began in mid-2006, paid 2.4 billion kuna or 1% of gross domestic product, while 3.4 billion kuna or 1.2% of gross domestic product was paid in 2007. The annual state expenditure growth rate for social benefits was almost twice as high as in 2007, i.e. it was twice as high in 2007 compared to the previous two years. During 2007, the Central Bank continued to implement a monetary policy aimed at ensuring a stable movement of the nominal exchange rate towards the euro which is the main anchor of domestic inflation expectations and as such a key prerequisite for achieving stability of domestic prices. Efforts to contribute to reducing imbalances in international trade in goods and services have expanded the current monetary policy instrumentation in 2007. It is important to stress that, with its measures adopted in 2007, the Croatian National Bank had a strong impact on the slowdown of the growth of the banks. Thus, along with the border reserve instrument, the rate of which is 55% and which significantly accumulates foreign borrowing of business banks and with the prescribed minimum foreign exchange liquidity of 32%, the Central Bank has made a decision on the registration of mandatory Croatian National Bank cash registers to slow down the growth of the euro area banks. By decision, banks whose growth in placements in 2007 exceeded 12% of their obligation to register. The Central Bank successfully slowed the growth of banks' plasmas by bringing their annual change rate down from 22% in 2006 to 15% at the end of 2007. Thus, the credit activity of banks in 2007 continued to be the main focus of the population sector, and the adjustment of banks to the said decision was reflected in the moderate lending of businesses. Finally, indeed after this detailed report on the business of the Croatian National Bank in 2007 I personally support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15616	Thank you very much to my fellow MPs. Next is the debate of a distinguished colleague, Željko Turka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15617	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues from the Government and the Croatian National Bank, respected fellow parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here, I would like some additional sentences regarding this really interesting and important topic on the Croatian National Bank report. As has already been said several times and repeated, the stability of the prices themselves with the provision of stability and nominal exchange rate of kuna according to the euro is one of the basic tasks that the Croatian National Bank has in its work area and we have been able to hear from several discussions here that this work is related to how the international environment in which we are located, and with our overall real power, primarily our economy or production. The bank itself acted actively and vigorously, so the CNB actively acted to slow down the growth of banks' plasmas, thus reducing foreign debt banks and achieving a somewhat slower growth of foreign debt in the economy as a whole. The fact is, and we are witnessing that after the past years in 2007, and this is what we are trying to do in 2008, we are witnessing some new major changes in the macroeconomic environment that have conditioned for the change in the consumer price index from those two and some percentages to five and six respectively. These elements of inflation growth are linked above all, and this is also mentioned several times on the one hand by the growth of food products on the domestic market, and also directly caused by an increase in prices for both domestic agricultural products and energy prices. The fact that Croatia is a small country with its 4 million inhabitants or something more and absolutely conditional on its macroeconomic environments with all of its positive and negative tendencies and we are witnessing such similar to to a greater or lesser degree of disturbance in the developed markets of Western Europe and economically stronger countries than ourselves. During this time last year, GDP growth was also observed, so some real growth that went from 4.8% in 2006 to 5.6% in 2007. Fortunately, it continues in this year even though it is not the subject of this report, but it may be significant to say, and certainly it was conditioned and involved in this increased personal consumption, and through this growth of state spending itself, with the largest contribution growing grossly sufficient value of the economy in 2007 being a growth, i.e. an increase in service activities with over three percentage points. It was certainly contributed by successful tourist achievements in the past year, and it is certainly visible in particular... A shop with over seven points and some percentage points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this conditioned also well that this is also a further reduction in the unemployment that is continuing in the last and observed period, it continues in 2008 which is certainly expressing in one particular segment and our satisfaction and we believe that this will also show the results in this year's time. Of course, the kuna exchange rate, which is characterised as an appreciation of the kuna itself by the euro, which for some few percentage points was 0.2.0.3 at the level of last year, which on the one hand speaks of the stability of the kuna to the euro, but on the other hand is unfavourable to the growth of production towards exports and to exporters. As we have already said enough about the 2007 report, I will say, although it is not the subject of the debate, that in 2008, this trend of movement even faster and faster so the euro has fallen even worse towards the kuna, it will be very significant to see how further progress will be made this year. Certainly, and the appreciation pressures are part of it and... inflow of foreign exchanges from tourism itself, foreign exchanges... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] commercial companies and foreign exchanges on the exchange of capitalisation of banks themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the CNB sought to contribute to reducing the imbalances of the Croatian economy expanded its instrument of monetary policy and successfully fought, slowed down the growth of bank placements that I am not going to talk about... additionally spoken, but certainly worth noticing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, when we talk about the money market, the fact is and it is characteristic that after the past years that marked the period of relatively low and stable interest rates, in mid-2007 there was an unusual increase which certainly continued in one part of 2008 with a trend in reducing the interest rates of business banks to approved short-term loans, so there was also a change in long-term loans to companies, which is certainly a trend that is likely to be part of this year. It was certainly observed during the total period that the total debt of the Republic of Croatia was increased. It has slowed the growth of debt compared to 2006 due to a decrease in the foreign debt of business banks under the influence of monetary policy measures themselves and partly because the state itself has focused on borrowing on the domestic financial market. But maybe, even though it wasn't given in this report, it couldn't have been... I was personally interested that in some way we could see through the system of monitoring the economy and when we talk about this total credit debt especially of that economic sector which was its part exactly the one for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and to achieve future production and to encourage future production, is it generally personal with such a task they can always agree and give, raise your hand in the air but certainly when it comes to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to pay longer and special attention to the growth of personal consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The short summary and conclusion of this debate is that it was certainly real growth of gross domestic product in 2007 grew and that it was quite high. Movements in the labour market are positive, the increase in foreign debt is slowed, while the acceleration is present with the acceleration of inflation rates, and the increase in the current balance of payments account deficits. Through all that is here in the report of the Croatian National Bank, they can show their consent, and that is, I will personally support this report and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15618	Thank you to your esteemed colleague. And the last application for a debate under this agenda is the application of a respected colleague Davor Bernardic, so I ask him to take part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15619	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is this debate on the CNB report, and I begin by saying that it is a correct report where a set of acts and facts describe the situation in the Croatian economy and in the Croatian economy are gathered. What I must notice at first is that personal consumption is the largest generator of economic growth, so personal consumption and the public and private sector contributes to economic growth by 70%, i.e. 3.7 percentage points, respectively, compared to 5.6 of the economic growth in 2007. We must also be aware of the fact that part of this economic growth was, of course, the result of the fresh money that came from the initial public offering of Croatian telecommunications to citizens, where around 5.5 or 6 billion direct money was later invested in personal consumption through the repayment of debt to pensioners. This personal consumption also grew through public spending, especially through public consumption of companies that are state-owned, which have increased their debt, external debt with 1.2 billion compared to last year when the debt was only 0.2 billion euros. Unfortunately, this public spending is what is a major problem in Croatia and it is too large and should be addressed according to all independent economic experts. Such a result is due to the growth of foreign debt, which when all data are collected is realistic from nominal GDP growth, which has increased by 2.3 percentage points. So he came from 85.5% at the end of 2006 to 87.8 at the end of 2007. What does that mean? It means that we produce the i.e. We generate economic growth from somewhere at 4%, this year it will be 3.7% and the debt total, meaning external debt that is both public and private growth at 6% of GDP level. So almost twice as much of an external debt as we grow ourselves. That means we're out there in charge of money from foreign banks because we're forced by the restrictive policies of the CNB that I have to confess and I support, to buy the product outside for money outside here. The debt is growing at a rate of 20 billion kuna per year and has increased by 40% compared to 2003. The restriction of bank placements is one of the measures by which the Croatian National Bank may be one of the most unique examples of banks in the countries of Europe, but it is one of the measures that has limited borrowing in the domestic market. Unfortunately, some trading segments are turned towards borrowing on the foreign market which can be seen of course from all relevant indicators and, therefore, in that last debate when we talked about liquidity, exactly liquidity is necessary to reduce the risk of operating on the domestic market. When companies are already forced to borrow from outside, liquidity is an extremely strong instrument which in some ways limits the risk of their business. I didn't mean to take off the i.e. For a looser monetary policy, however, I am for a stronger and more restrictive policy. Why? Because monetary policy cannot solve economic policy problems. Monetary policy cannot solve the problem of wage growth. This must be addressed by economic policy. Monetary policy cannot address the problem of reducing inflation. This must be addressed by economic policy. Economic policy must address the problem of Croatian exporters. That can't be solved by monetary policy. It is not monetary policy that will encourage exports. I remember in my time I had the opportunity to share information with colleagues from Slovenia who said that the Slovenian government, and wherever the government is working in the interests of Slovenian exporters, is what the Slovenians in some way have given 100m euros of grants to Mercator, 100m euros to boost competitiveness in the markets of Southeast Europe. What does that mean? This means that on the markets of Southeast Europe, with a 100m-euro grant, Slovenian products will, among other things, be on the Mercator shelves, so they directly helped Slovenian exports, and that is where economic policy must look for answers, not monetary policy. And I support a stronger monetary policy. Furthermore, economic policy must also offer answers to what is happening, which is that compared to February, so last year 2007 reduced GDP growth dynamics, which was 4.5%, means it is a dynamic tangent and is now 1.5%. Therefore, the economy is obviously slowed down and this will also affect fiscal policy in the coming year. However, on the risks of fiscal policy in the fiscal policy next year, I will say something at the end. Furthermore, the negative trends in the deterioration of the balance of the current balance of payments in 2007 by almost a fifth are the result of also accelerated growth in the international exchange of goods. So we have a cut in the international exchange of $13 billion. Finally, what my predecessor said on behalf of the club Professor Jurcic, international exchange, i.e. The external trade deficit is something you must ultimately pay for. You can pay that in two ways, either by exporting or selling national wealth. The sale of national wealth was also an initial public offering of INA, i.e. the sale of HT shares because we are with that sale, the government generated an additional two gradual points of economic growth, therefore, it is another measure. So the necessity of increasing domestic production is the only thing that needs to be the goal of the Croatian state, the Croatian government independently which was and without increasing domestic production there is no increase in wages, so it is utopia, there is no payment of external debt because it is utopia because it is in a continuous band, so it grows faster than our economic growth, since we are in debt to spend. And as a consequence logically, means that no property of stronger domestic production is the present sale of national property and that is something that is through Croatian history, in Croatian politics in fact constantly present for the last 20 years and I would sincerely like to see that trend break in some way. On the other hand, the record, banks are the most responsible for the issue of loans in this year made a record profit. I'd just like to look back at the things that will happen in 2008 as logical consequences of these things and the movements in 2007. The first risk, the loss of the personal consumption engine, the credits for the decline, the increase in credit for personal consumption is less credit for, residential loans, the borrowing of citizens for the purchase of real estate. Expert imbalances such as the commodity record, negative trade deficit, investment consumption for energy, partly, which inflation is partly imported and cannot be affected as dividend payments, will also be adversely affected by developments in 2008. In addition, we need to add up the unfavourable external environment. As for the construction sector, the construction sector was one because of public consumption and personal consumption, meaning citizens who move into apartments and countries that build infrastructure, one of the wheels of economic growth was in previous years. And you have to admit that. This year, the number of construction investments rose from the past by 16%. However, it should not be forgotten that the new Construction Act is already visible from the first data available to a reduced number of permits issued. Since the number of loans issued has been reduced, demand for housing has also decreased. Since this growth can only be owed to licenses issued last year, such growth in the construction sector will certainly not happen next year. What I have to say is that monetary policy needs to remain restrictive, that it needs to be directed towards solving less, means solving liquidity and drilling credit expansion. And I must clearly say that without structural reforms, without structural reforms that the Croatian state must implement. I dare say that our fiscal policy for next and next year is very uncertain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15620	Thank you very much, fellow representative. There are no more applications for individual hearings. Therefore, I conclude the debate. The proposer's representative was shown to have no need to take the final word. And we will vote on the conclusion regarding this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15621	4. Annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2007. Proposer of the Croatian National Bank. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies. An annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that most votes, 100 votes for and two abstentions accepted the annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15622	And now we move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007; the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal for the annual State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 on the basis of Article 128(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budget law. You received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received a report from the Committee session at the session. Mr. Zdravko Maric appears on behalf of the proponent for the word. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, you have a report on the table, that is, the 2007 State budget accounts. Before I start on some of the figures from the budget, let me briefly just get involved in the debate from the previous point, so just repeat some of these most important macroeconomic indicators that are in some way the basis and creation, in some way the implementation of the budget. Anyway, they're in a tight relationship. Therefore, in 2007, it should be reiterated that economic growth was 5.6%, which specifically required apostrophe that the highest real growth was recorded in capital investments, so 6.5%, 2007 continued to be a trend in the last few years with a relatively low inflation below 3%, so there were 2.9 measures on the consumer price index. Industrial production increased by 5.6mm by 8.4 nominal, or realistic 5.3% throughout the year, as well as indicators in the tourism sector in terms of arrival and overnight tourism, i.e. in tourism are also good, 7.5% and 5.6% of overnight, respectively. It should also be apostrophe, and we have heard the same positive indicators on the labour market just before, so the historically lowest unemployment rate achieved measures whether the registered unemployment rate measures, or measures at the polling rate. However, it should also be said that during the entire 2007 period, this unemployment rate fell in two-digit amounts. As for the implementation of the State budget in 2007 let me first say a few words about revenues. Therefore, operating revenues in 2007 were achieved from € 108.3 billion, which is 13.7% higher than in 2006. I would, among other things, cite the main reasons for such a good achievement, we must say, since the revenues of the state budget, one of them is, of course, improved work of the tax administration, intruding into part of the gray economy. Of course, there are economic results that I mentioned earlier that have also contributed to the generation of this high income growth. However, one methodological category should also be said, which is since 2007 in the context of the state budget, we have social security funds. So Croatian Institute of Pensions, Health and Employment. So that's just one technical detail that slightly increased that base or achieved a higher growth rate. It should also be mentioned in the morning debate we heard a few information or information related to the Treasury. So the Treasury continued, or so we can say, and ended one project that lasted for a while, and that was the closure of all these accounts of individual budget users, or the creation of this unique state treasury account. As regards certain categories of state budget income from the state budget, it is certainly necessary to say, of course, and especially to highlight tax revenues, and I would like to say, therefore, that they are achieved in terms of 60 billion and 837 million kuna, which is, if you compare to the budget rebalance for 2007, something slightly above the plan. So 100.2 was a particular index. Practically at the level of the plan. Of which, of course, the most significant income of the tax was the value added tax of $37.7 billion or 8.1%) at the annual level. Income and profit tax, a very high growth rate at an annual level of 24.3%. Anyway, it's important to apostrophe. Costs of €9.1 billion or 5% of the growth or customs that, I will repeat here in the Parliament, regardless of our accession to the European Union and in some way liberalising the course of what the goods are doing. In any case, they record positive, positive results. It's still 3.3% higher income. Contributions as the second most significant item of total operating income were made at an amount of €37.2 billion or €9.8% higher than in 2006 and almost identical to the planned revenues from the rebalancing contribution. Of the other categories, it should certainly be noted that the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets recorded a growth of 41% and a total execution of 499 million kuna. As for expenditure, it should also be mentioned and said that the cost dynamics followed the annual plan. In this particular respect, the most significant categories should be apostrophyd, when we say the most significant ones, I certainly mean by the amount, or by the volume of the financial resources spent on them. So not according to the very level of income, but it should be said that employee expenditures achieved annual growth in 2007, an annual growth of 15.2% and were realised at 19.9 billion kuna. So the reasons for this high growth, I'm going to repeat again what I said about the revenue side, so that's a good part of including these social security funds, but also in 2007 we had significant performance payments that were actually from previous years. Then material expenditure in 2007 grew by 19.7%. They were realised at seven and a half billion kunas. However, this should also be noted by including social security funds that a significant contribution to the overall growth of material expenditure comes from a better and more efficient withdrawal from the European Union funds. Then we actually come to this main category, or on the dispersal side of the largest pension of HRK 29.9 billion and kuna 1.7 billion, respectively, from 2006 to 6.2%. In this respect, it is particularly important to mention the pensions of defenders, which include the payment of debt to defenders and 22.8% growth, which were achieved in 2007 in the amount of 4.2 billion kuna. For healthcare and social care in 2007, a total of 21.6 billion kuna and 3 and a half billion or 18.6% higher were allocated compared to 2006. For subsidies, 6 and a half billion kuna was allocated in 2007, which is 821 million or 14 and a half percent higher than in the previous year, which should be mentioned specifically that we continue with the trend that subsidies are more going to that so-called. horizontal level. So equally to all sectors, especially by apostrophe of small and medium-sized enterprises, and to reduce these vertical or direct subsidies to individual activities. However, it should be mentioned, within the framework of the subsidies to agriculture, that 458 million kuna was secured which was paid as a result of the drought in 2007. For the child's allowance, 1.9 billion kuna was allocated in 2007 which is an increase of 519 million or 38.2% compared to the previous year. Finally, 3 billion kuna has been allocated for the purchase of non-financial assets, i.e. for investments in infrastructure or capital projects, which is 1.1 billion more compared to the previous year. Therefore, the achievement of the State budget’s revenue and expenditure in 2007 should therefore be said when they are included, of course, in the scope and categories of changes made, and the outstanding liabilities to that old methodology, etc. The modified accounting principle comes to a deficit of 3.2% of the state budget. So now I'm going to do it one more time. According to that old methodology, this would be 1.2% at the state budget level. At that time, the deficit of extra budget users or the deficit of the local state is added to the achievement of the overall deficit of the general government, so in 2007, I repeat once again according to the old methodology, so here in the Parliament we were already talking about and we know very well, so there was 2.3%. It should therefore be said that the original 2007 plan envisioned 2.8. With the budget rebalancing in mid-2007, we lowered the plan, i.e. the target deficit was 2.6%. And in the end, we have an achievement of 2.3. So relative to the original plan, that's another 0.5 percentage points less. I'm also pulling the parallel immediately with the current calculation methodology of the general state. 2.3% in 2007 is actually 1.6%. I repeat once again this is an ESA 95 methodology, therefore a European methodology. And let me just finally mention something at the level of the state budget that we at the Ministry of Finance, from the Government, like to mention and talk a lot and that's when you calculate and calculate the deficit category so-called. primary balance sheet. So when we compare incomes or current incomes, operating revenues with current expenditures. So when we exempt the expenditures from the expenditure on interest which were practically incurred by the state budget in 2007 was in surplus of 1.3 billion kuna. So the primary balance was already in our surplus in 2007, and according to our projections, it should be in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15624	Thank you very much, guide. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? The Finance Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries? No, I don't. The Committee on Regional Development? I don't either. Health care and welfare? Development and restoration? And for the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? So there's no application for the board's participation in the debate. We're going to a club debate. In front of the SDP club, respected colleague Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15625	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of gross social product in 2007, we say he was moving somewhere around 275 billion kuna. Last year's budget revenues were moving somewhere around € 108 billion or they would say almost 40% of that total social gross product. And when we look at expenditures in a consolidated state budget, it's 140 billion or even over 50, 51% of the total national gross product. Therefore, if we observe this, then we can see how huge the government's power is to influence movements in the Republic of Croatia through quality economic policy with fiscal policy. So there's huge power and it's obvious that it's too much of a consolidated budget in the total national gross product. And now we get to that grade, the results, and basically the annual billing for last year is about the results. And how do we read those results? How do we look at the government's document and listen to the State Secretary's report? Characteristics are GDP growth of 5.6% significantly high, inflation low 2.9% annually, budget deficit consolidated 2.3% with new methodologies and lower and minimum unemployment of 254,000 people is unemployed or looking at registered unemployment rates 14.4 lowest. Thus, reading certain macroeconomic sizes could conclude that the government has made good use of this fiscal policy to make positive movements in the Republic of Croatia through economic policy. But statistics are the devil because it can be read in two ways and in many ways. Well, just for the sake of the SDP Club's compatibility, I'm going to try that same statistic we heard from the secretary of state, and it's written in a document that reads the eyes of people and experts from the National Bank, from the Institute of Public Finance. So the same statistics, but slightly different interpretations. When we try to conclude whether the fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was so successful last year. When we talk about gross social product, its growth is 5.6 percent, it's really that big. But what is most important is that its growth is thanks to investment in the capital market, and then when we look at how this investment happened then we will see that it is not an investment in production but a virtual market, that this investment is not long-term, but rather speculative in the short term and that this investment has also resulted in a huge debt of those who have invested. On the other hand, the result of this growth in gross social product is consumption, consumption that we have again through fiscal policy, through the budget and tried to stimulate because it is consumption and personal, but also clearly consolidated states. Therefore, very high consumption and it results. Unfortunately, the smallest contribution to this growth has made investments in the private sector. Therefore, those guaranteeing further employment, which guarantee new jobs and which could probably guarantee slightly higher exports. Therefore, if we read a little deeper analysis of this gross social product and growth in last year, we must also express some dissatisfaction because we have been spending too much on redistributing the budget and through the consumption of the consolidated state, so we have affected the irrationality, the consumption of social gross product, and that is the basis of our growth. Also, what we have to say when we talk about a low inflation rate of 2.9 should read it as it says in the National Bank report. The beginning of the year 2% of price increases, to end the year with a high 5.8. Therefore, it is evident that at the end of the year there are disturbances, especially if we are looking at the part of the food costs, the cost of clothing is a very significant increase in agricultural products. Therefore, all that is very important for the citizens of Croatia themselves, for the standard of living of citizens. Therefore, I would say fiscal policy failed to maintain low inflation at the beginning of the year, but at the end of the year we have a full hint of uncontrollable price growth in the part relating to the cost of citizens' lives. Also when we're talking about real quality, I'd say the work result last year, and that's a high employment rate of a million and 516000 people. Therefore, a small number of employees. What we're not talking about here is a low average net salary growth of just 2.3%. So, I'd say if we compare to the last two, so in 2005 and the sixth, when there was no net salary growth real and also in 2006 if you remember only 1.7% of the growth is approximately a real net salary. So we conclude that we have an increase in employment, but with very modest real wage growth, and then when we put it in context with the end of the year when high inflation is then we have to conclude that the effects of fiscal policy have not been felt by workers, and that is very important. Why? Because if increased consumption is the cause of gross social product growth, then it is evident that workers do not spend on higher salaries, but spend on debt and see also the reasons for high foreign debt. We also see that we can't be satisfied with the export, with the deficit in the balance of payments, that we can't be satisfied with either, I would say the shortfall in the trade that has already passed 13 billion dollars, and surely the coverage of imports with exports is unsatisfactory. Of course, we can immediately link this to the problem of foreign debt and whatever we are trying to say is that the lower rate of growth of that debt, that the state participates in this, it is evident that it is the government that has allowed such high growth and that killing is the problem in fiscal policy. Why? Citizens are in debt, not having enough pay and buying on credit, and it is also companies with competitiveness problems that are trying to solve some of their problems with borrowing. And there's the data again that we need to worry about. If we conclude that the foreign debt has already reached 87.8% of the gross social product, and also that the ratio of exports and imports is about 1:179, then we can conclude that it is something that is really worrying. It's the failures of fiscal policy again. Now I'm a little bit out of numbers, so let's deal with the Institute of Public Finance's report and find out where certain shortcomings are in fiscal policy. It concludes that, the revenues of the state budget have been increased, but the government does not direct them to tax redundancies, but to consumption. So the assessment is if income growth, if we're so satisfied, is expected from the economy tax discharge. There's no answer in that part. Also, increased revenue from the budget is not aimed at reforming a number of fees and fees that are indeed a huge burden on the economy. The list, if you look at it, seems to me 245 parafiscal duties and fees that the government obviously could have started to reduce by reform, given that we have high incomes. These are about very clear messages that in that part of fiscal policy, God did not know what. It is also warned that the IMF recommended to the government certain savings of 4% of the gross social product to maintain the existing financial burden system. We can conclude that we haven't achieved that part either. And also when we talk about direct and indirect allocations and support from the budget, which is estimated to be very high, we must again say, they did not result in quality economic growth through private capital investments and also by increasing exports. And of course, the assessment and observation which is very, very dangerous for the government that a good part of the guarantees that are given are questionable qualities and questionable possibilities of collection. In the end, it is also estimated that fiscal decentralisation is in stagnation. Therefore, these are assessments that we can read from the Institute of Public Finance when we talk about the fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the end, if we don't owe a lot, we can see how different statistics are. By SDP and SDP, we can say the following. Although both the National Bank and the Institute of Public Finance warn of high investment, really high investment in social expenditure in the budget, we in the SDP estimate that we did not see these investments in the continuation of pension reform, so we have problems in pension systems regardless of whether it is generational solidarity without talking about the problems of the new pension system, the savings system. So you can't see the money in that part. Also, although the increase in social expenditure allocations, we do not see the money in the health debt recovery, we do not see the money in health reform. And not only the system, but even the financing of the health system to finally solve these continuing problems of the health minus. So we haven't solved the increase in funds, nor have we solved that part. We also see in the SDP that in education, we gave up already accepted reforms in part and because of lack of funds, and we see increased expenditures. And of course, what we see is significant funds in subsidies and aids, while at the same time insufficient growth rates based on private investments and insufficient exports so that they can be calm due to external debts. And of course unforgivable, it is the aid of fiscal policy in terms of debt and debt, and for this reason the SDP estimates that the fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the one-off budget spent was unquality and that is why we will not give our vote for the 2007 annual accounts proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15626	Thank you very much. First of all, notice that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the time has expired for individual applications. So you can sign up. Okay. We've got three applications to correct an incorrect allegation. First of all, the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15627	Here I would correct one of a series of incorrect allegations. In fact, MP Linic said that from a gross domestic product that was meant in last year 5.6 there was no investment in investments but in consumption. This is not true at all because just the highest growth, the cost component of the gross domestic product has just been recorded in a fixed capital investment that has increased 6.5% compared to 2006. And this is particularly important since investments are the most important factor in generating future economic growth. I'd just like to say one more thing. State consumption in the gross domestic product has increased 3.4%, which means twice as much as that investment in investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15628	Thank you very much, colleague. Keep going. Honorable colleague of Andrija Hebrang's.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, so a colleague said that there were several ways to interpret statistics and he took the way that suits him, and we could interpret it objectively, so I'm denying it because of the shortness of time just his data. We must not be satisfied with exports, it is not satisfactory to cover exports with imports. Not if statistics show that the coverage of goods exports with goods imports is 49%, but that is incorrectly statistical. Current, for 2007, the current income balance was 21 billion euros. Out of that, 9 billion of the goods and 11 billion of the imports. It's the same import. What's import? Tourism, maritime, trade, traffic, etc. So our coverage is 87%, not 49%. If, according to this statistical method, you see Greece, your exports are covered by only 29%. Everything else is favors. Croatia's economy is based on services and not on goods. That's why statistics need to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15630	Thank you very much. And a third application for correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So Mr. Linic, speaking of education, said we gave up reforms in education although the budget for education was increased. Yes, my colleague, the budget was quite increased, 2 and a half billion kunas back three years, and even more than 13% compared to 2006, but did not give up on education reforms. There is also a project of state education and a project of reform in vocational education, and the greatest value of this is the external evaluation of the programme in both primary and secondary schools. So the reforms didn't give up. And it goes as far as you and I and the Bologna process.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15632	Thank you very much. Let's discuss it further. On behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished colleague Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And an application on behalf of the HDZ club, counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In order to understand the Annual Accountancy of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, it is important to consider and analyse the most important elements of the macroeconomic environment for the same reason, and several risk indicators will bring us closer to the picture of this environment. Thus, the real growth of gross domestic product in 2007 was 5.6%, representing an acceleration of 0.8% of percentage points compared to 2006. And gross domestic product per capita increased from 7700 euros in 2006 to around 8500 euros in 2007. By observing certain components of the expenditure side of the gross domestic product, the highest real growth in 2007 was re-recorded in fixed capital investments. At the same time, most other macroeconomic indicators also recorded positive developments in 2007 and industrial production increased by 5.6%, trade to little 5.3 and overnight tourists increased by 5.6%. The accelerated economic activity was also followed by a reduction in unemployment and fewer unemployed persons were recorded in all months of 2007 compared to 2006, while the rate of survey unemployment of 9.6% from 2007 was the lowest so far. The average number of employees in 2007 increased by almost 50 000 or 3.3% compared to 2006 and the inflation slowed to 2.9% in 2007. According to the final data on the implementation of the State budget for 2007, total revenues were made in the amount of HRK 108.8 billion, and this achievement of the total revenues of the state budget is in line with the planned revenue amounts for 2007. Compared to 2006, the total revenues of the state budget reached an annual growth of 13.8%. The total revenues of the state budget consist of the revenues of the business and proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets. The operating revenues in 2007 account for 99.5% of the total budget revenues, which amounted to HRK 108.3 billion, which is approximately planned for the amount, and thus reached an annual growth of 13.7%. The tax revenue is the most important item of business income with a share of 56.2% followed by revenue from a contribution of which the share in operating income is 34.3%. The growth in operating income of 13.7 in 2007 is the result of increased economic activity, improved tax collection and consolidation of the state budget, i.e. the inclusion of social security funds in the State Treasury system, i.e. in the scope of the state budget. Moreover, the total revenue of the state budget was also affected by the closure of the accounts of the budget beneficiaries who have insisted outside the single State Treasury system, which since 1 January 2007 fully enters the Treasury system. The proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets in 2007 amounted to HRK 498.7 million and 41.4% more than in 2006 respectively and compared to the planned amount of these revenues were achieved by 3.5% and 16.7 million more, respectively. The total expenditure in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 amounted to kuna 111 billion, of which the operating expenditures amounted to HRK 108 billion, and of expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets of 3 billion kuna. The total expenditure of the state budget made in 2007 is higher by € 13.2 billion than the total expenditure of the state budget made in 2006. This growth also stemmed from the inclusion of the sources of income and expenditure financed from them, which were not fully included in the state budget in 2006 and earlier years, due to the full inclusion of social security funds and the further closure of the accounts of budgetary users that existed outside the single State Treasury system, which since 1 January 2007, fully enters the Treasury system. Business expenditure in 2007 is 12.6% higher compared to the previous year, which is an absolute increase of 12.1 billion kuna. The dynamics of operating expenditure were followed by the plan and 108 billion kuna was implemented, which is 99.3% of the plan. The cost of obtaining non-financial assets in 2007 was 59.5% compared to 2006 and increased by 1.9 billion in 2006 to 3 billion kuna in 2007. This increase of 1.1 billion kuna in 2007 compared to the previous year is largely related to co-financing of textbooks amounting to 410.4 million kuna 158.5 million kuna per projects in the Ministry of Interior, 153,3 million kuna in the reconstruction of health infrastructure and 125 million kunas for the housing of people with disabilities from the Homeland War and the transport agency of certain properties. The general government's consolidated deficit for 2007 was planned at 2.8% of the gross domestic product, but due to sound collection of income and rational implementation of expenditure in the first six months, the state budget rebalancing reduced the planned general government deficit to 2.6% of gross domestic product. What should be particularly highlighted from the 2007 annual state budget accounts is that the deficit was consolidated by the general government in 2007 even at a lower level than the rebalancing planned and was 2.3% of the gross domestic product and was reduced by 1.1 billion kuna compared to the general government deficit achieved in 2006. As regards the public debt of the Republic of Croatia, the annual calculation of the state budget tells us that the main feature of the public debt situation with 31 December 2007 compared to the year before is certainly the significant reduction observed by the share of the gross domestic product. The total public debt at the end of 2007 was €121.2 billion compared to 44.1% of gross domestic product, which is 2.4% lower than the state at the end of December of the previous year. The share of public debt in the gross domestic product in 2007 decreased second time in two years compared to the previous year, which is definitely a positive trend. Of course, statistics must, can and can be observed in different ways and from different positions, especially in view of a different conclusion and interpretation. However, no matter how many disputes there are, the facts remain, and in this presentation I have cited only facts. It was stated here that the rise in net wages in the last year was very low, which is indeed true and that this is due to the failure of fiscal policy. However, by analysing data on the total profit obtained from companies in economic activity, it is apparent that the total profit was significantly higher than the increase in net wages. This only shows that this is not due to the failure of fiscal policy but that owners prefer to pay dividends rather than raise salaries. For this reason, the HDZ Club will vote in favour of accepting the 2007 State Budget Annual Account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15634	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate...... According to the clubs, we're now moving to individual and final, etc. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, this topic wouldn't end this quickly. The first individual representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, appeared for the debate. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a small contribution to making sure the debate doesn't end quickly. Here's a few words, maybe. In fact, we heard from one Mr. Marić and from fellow Marić that the good implementation of the budget was so if we went to an analysis of why it was a good realization, there is in any case a great success in the fight against the gray economy but also a living business activity. In fact, we have to say that I'm looking at the area again because we have about a thousand companies I could say so, so I talk to these biggest ones, that a lot of special production halls are being built, that there's also a lot of construction and halls for service activities and that there's quite an increase in activity. Here's an example. There's a craftsman with us, he's already a firm, he's got 500 employees. So we can still respect what he's saying. Since it works out elements for construction, for high construction, essential elements, it claims that in the same period this year that it's spent two and a half times as much let's get a real deal as last year. So it's proof that the construction industry, that the building is disappearing, that it's still investing. But there's one problem, we're talking about building permits. The number of building permits is somewhat smaller, but the buildings that are being built are significantly larger. In any case, this area makes a significant contribution to realisation and employment. I also have to say that if we look at profit tax, profit tax keeps growing, year after year. Maybe it's a little hard to define him here because the profit tax was in one hand the income of local self-government, now it's the state's income, and we'll see what's more important in this budget. So the economic activity is still great and what makes me happy is still the export of small craftsmen. So they're increasingly connecting with Europe's countries, and they're even opening up some of their own companies there, and I think that's pretty good. Little perhaps the debt should be talked about, it is the only reduced compared to the gross domestic product, but citizens continue to buy. They buy cars, too, regardless of the price, buy apartments, buy apartments, so it doesn't stagnate. Normally, they are in debt, as all other citizens of the European Union do, because it turns out that it's actually all in debt and it's out there buying for a done in, which is not true. If we do a little analysis around Europe, we'll see that most of the population buys debt there. Normally, some companies went abroad for a variety of reasons, which doesn't even surprise me, have good offers, so maybe realisation was a little faster, but it's important to use that money well. I have to, I won't be long, but I have to say a little bit about the execution. I have watched the execution a little bit, and we should also commend the Croatian Parliament that it has not implemented everything that was planned. That it was planned somewhere around 320 and a half million, that the Croatian Parliament spent 15 million, and here is the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia instead of 52 million kuna and 750 thousand spent a little less than 50 million kuna, and it also saved the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for which 2 million and 634 thousand were intended. Here's the guy who spent 300 thousand kunas less. So, let's say that here they all got involved in reducing consumption, so they should be commended here. I think the realisation of this budget is that this paper itself that we got, so this is all we got, that it's very transparent. We don't see any major problems, there are certain increases in the items, they're justified, but there's also where the important savings are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15636	Thank you very much. Next is an individual debate by distinguished counterpart Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15637	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So here's what we have to say after what we've heard from these two, three clubs report from fellow Markovanovic, that it's a pleasure to talk about this budget in 2007, when it really is, and we've all found that real GDP growth increased by 5.6%, increase in gross domestic budget, increase in industrial production, increase in trade to little, so really this real growth and nighting of tourists, that all this has led to a decrease in unemployment, that inflation has slowed down last year, and that the deficit and the decrease in foreign debt from 22.8% to 20.2%. Certainly, this good situation that was in our state budget last year marked and certainly meant major changes in the budgets of the local self-government units, above all because of the changed tax policy. Of course, these support from the state budget and tax policy have also led to a large number of increases in local and regional projects in units of local self-government from the support given from the state budget in the economy, in craftsmanship, in the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, above all through the construction of infrastructure, through roads, highways, I can only say from the area from which I come that the programme and the construction of the bridge on the river Buy and the Sava River, is the only bridge that will be built south of Sisak that has been waiting for years for residents of this region without talking about the roads of state character or those who have arrived to finance themselves through the county budget or through urban, or municipal budgets. We certainly have to say that I speak for the example of my county, through various support about 100 million kunas entered through various projects from the water economy to different projects that have been co-financed, mainly in areas of special state concern where in Sisak-Moslavina County, when you add everything you can see that from the state budget from different positions there have been as many as 14 million kunas in one year. In some smaller municipalities there would be no development, there would be no infrastructure development if there were no help from the state budget right now. A whole series of municipal and social infrastructure projects and a whole series of other programmes have been approved, public needs programmes in this one social sector, not to say that you have funded and rebuilding schools from the state budget or from at least some of the world or European banks' loans, for example. in Petrinja and the first elementary and secondary, so the construction of a sports hall in Croatia Dubica, which everyone says may be local but is completely built from decentralised means, so again from the state budget. And that's why I have to say, I'm not going to mention and retain all of us with a whole series of funds being invested through programs in culture, so here in our Parliament, down at Parliament's Avenue, you have projects from the Ministry of Culture where it's visible that just one has been invested in my county of Sisak-Moslavina in 2007 and the sixth largest number of support for the restoration of traditional cultural heritage. So that went from the state budget, too. So when our local leaders, our mayor often says there is no economic growth and investment in local projects. Which is not true. Only in this report can we read how much from the state budget is invested specifically in Sisak-Moslavina County. And I'm going to tell you something about education because I talk about it most of the time. I am really pleased that 2.5 billion kunas were invested back in education three years ago, that it was just three years ago and mainly in 2007 when almost 13% increased budget in education, yet a whole series of projects were launched, that it continued with the reform of vocational education, secondary vocational education, although also with the project of state graduation and with the Bologna Process, and that certainly what I was saying and correcting my colleague Linić said is the most important project, and also now we see why and these days, this external evaluation of the programme as an anti-corruption model, that it is still one of the very important but expensive projects that go on, is being carried out in primary school and high school. So that's what the funds are provided for. I think that this year we now have the next item of the agenda, Investment in 2008, so I am glad that so far and in education according to this plan without rebalancing and without anything invested 933 million and 2008 more, because we are all in the plan and the work programme and here we all swear that our overall development and economic and social development rests on investing in education. And that's why I think we should say that in 2007, it was a very successful business year for our state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15638	Thank you very much, colleague. It's time for my dear colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we look at this booklet called The Implementation of the 2007 Budget, and especially when we hear some of my colleagues arguing before me, it seems like we're not in the same country. By looking at the opening words of one of the introductions in this book, he pointed to such a policy in the spirit of the victors, we move on. Now I'm asking you what kind of politics it is and what kind of spirit a winner is. At the end of 2007, after inflation was 2.3% year-on-year, the year-on-year inflation was 5.8%. Constantly from year to year foreign trade, the coverage of imports of exports is becoming smaller and smaller. Last year she was 47.9%. The trade deficit was EUR 10 billion in 2007. Is that the spirit of a winner? At the end of November and at the end of 2007, foreign debt was around EUR 33 billion, which is more than EUR 3.4 billion compared to 2006. The average net salary was 4 thousand 800 kuna and did not satisfy even two average salaries could not be covered, fed one average family. So that's what we're talking about is one proportion when we're showing data from last year and we're talking about growth of 5.6%. We're saying it's a result we can boast of. But unfortunately one reality, the reality in which our citizens live shows something completely different. When we look at a little bit and the structure of the budget, I find interesting items that are neither touched nor implemented. For example, when we look at the question of a pensioner. We had an item called investment in the pension system through the World Bank loan. It was made 25%. So it's one project that was probably agreed with the World Bank, and it's not even a quarter. Active measures to hire groups that threaten social exclusion, achieving 27%. Of the 10 million kunas planned, 2 million and 700 thousand kuna were achieved. Also when we look at the central office, the State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds, which you will recognise is an important office and which should be active during this pre-accession period to the European Union and where we have made use of 25 of the planned 33 million kunas. So, unfortunately, there are parts that have remained unused in the budget and on the other hand we know that, as there are, there are other items that have been used in the maximum, 100 percent amount, unfortunately, it is sometimes not realistic because the budget could be corrected through the government's legal provision until the last, until the last day. In the end, I will also not support the report on the implementation of the budget, although it is technically counting what happened last year, but I will not support it because I am deeply convinced that it does not create a perspective in which Croatia will become a country where more is produced than spent. In which an atmosphere is created that the state administration is not expensive. That the administration should be a service to the citizens and that it is not only here to exist and to satisfy the needs of the state administration in some way. In the end, I must also say that this year the consequences of that budget have been defeated since 2007. We're going to have a discussion about the 2008 accounting report, so I'm going to say a little more about it, but inflation that is directly due to the macroeconomic environment created by the 2007 budget is not a good situation today. So in the end, I can only say that I cannot support this report of the state budget and that I hope that we will finally make one turn from one budget that is wasteful, which spends more on administration than on development to create one perspective that will enable us, which will enable a better life for all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15640	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15641	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chief Treasury, colleagues and colleagues. No year since the end of the Homeland War, even since Croatia's independence, has been as successful as last 2007. This is unquestionably confirmed by macroeconomic indicators and statistics from the State Statistics Institute as well as data, studies and projections of analysis of international financial and economic institutions. Almost all macroeconomic indicators show positive trends compared to the previous year. The real growth of gross domestic product was 5.6% compared to 2006 by 0.8% resulting in nominal growth of gross domestic product per capita from 7 000 and 700 to 8000 and 500 euros or 10.3%. The accelerated economic activity has had a very positive impact on the reduction of the unemployment rate and it was 14.4%, the lowest unemployment rate ever recorded in Croatia. During... means that in Croatia in 2007 the number of unemployed persons was reduced by 27 thousand 170 or that 49 thousand 33 persons were employed in that year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This has made a major step towards meeting one of our strategic goals, which is to reduce unemployment. According to FINA's report published by HINA's annual accounting analysis for 2007 shows that entrepreneurs have achieved the best performance in the last 5 years, as many as 68.67% of entrepreneurs achieved profits that increased by more than 21% compared to the previous year. Stable economic conditions and progress in improving the investment climate attracted foreign investors and recorded a record in 2007 inflow of direct foreign investment of EUR 3.6 billion, which is for EUR 888 million or 32.3% more than the previous year. The fixed capital investment compared to 2006 has increased by 6.5%, which is particularly significant since investment good is the most important factor in generating future economic growth. I only cited some of these indicators positively reflected in the implementation of the State budget for 2007. The revenues and expenditures of the state budget increased by 13.8%, expenditures of 12.6% compared to last year, and their implementation compared to the 2007 plan is almost 100%, revenues of 99.8%, expenditures of 99.3%. But what is important to me with indicators is both the conclusions and the assessments that can be made and read on the basis of them. The implementation of the 2007 budget programme would not have been safe in this area if it hadn't been for the single system of the Treasury through the inclusion of the Social Insurance Fund and further inclusion outside the user's budget accounts in the single account of the Treasury. Of course they have contributed to the establishment and other functions of the Treasury and it is certain to mention that a system of measuring the financial effects of the regulations, legislative and sublegal acts, decisions, budget strategies has been established. Financial planning and forecasting have been developed, budget analyses have been introduced and fiscal discipline established through better control of budget spending. This has achieved full operationality of the single account, transparency of the state budget and greater control and control of the spending of state resources. The result is a continuation of the trend in the primary surplus of the state budget started in 2006. In fact, when spending is exempt from the interest that is the cost of the debt in 2007 the revenues of the state budget exceed expenditures by as much as 1.3 billion kuna. This means that current consumption is fully financed from income without the need for borrowing, and that part of the revenue is also used to depreciate earlier debts. Furthermore, I think it is important to mention that in 2007, the implementation of the 2007 amendment to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government incomes from income tax reduced by 49% compared to the previous year. They have partly become the incomes of local and regional self-government units. At the same time, revenue from the profit tax became the full income of the state budget, which should be mentioned that part of these revenues amounted to 304 million, i.e. he transferred to local self-government units in mountain and mountainous areas of special state care. The fairer distribution of these taxes also reflected in my town of Valpovo in such a way that the original income on that basis, so income tax increased 110% compared to 2006. The intervention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be mentioned in order to preserve the stability of oil derivatives prices from 1 May 2007 when excise duties for all motor gasoline have been reduced. This results from excise revenues in the same amount as in the previous year, so 2006. During the year, more specifically on 1 August 2007, a new reduced VAT rate on newspapers and magazines that come out daily and periodically applies to the amendments to the tax rules of the Value Added Tax Act. So, except for those who are fully advertised and that rate has been reduced from 22 to 10%. Social contributions grew in line with the increase in gross wages as well as the basis for their calculation, as well as the increase in employment. In the structure of these contributions, the slowest growth in pension insurance has been due to the fact that part of this contribution, the second pillar of insurance, is being poured out into the insurance funds. This part is constantly increasing, the second pillar, due to the natural inflow of young employees and increasing their participation in the overall employment structure, and they are bonds of payment of contributions to the second pillar. I would further highlight the positive effects of implementing the national population policy measures for which the budget for 2007 has been allocated considerable resources. 38.5% are higher than in 2006. Here I primarily think of increasing the allocation for children's allowance, increasing maternity benefits and providing free school textbooks, as well as free transportation. These measures have already given satisfactory effects in this year, but they will give full and lasting results over a long period of time. In fact, I think that the measures of total and economic, national policies implemented in 2007 have produced excellent results and I think especially in the implementation of the state budget and I don't think there's any reason not to accept it. On the contrary, I call on everyone to accept this State Budget Report for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15642	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15643	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. I will support the proposal for a 2007 State budget account and I think that every real one should express recognition to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance at a successful conclusion in 2007. It is precisely the data from this annual account that confirms the facts contained in it. A record revenue of € 108 billion was realised, which is 13.8% more than it was in 2006 and should be particularly appreciated and respected if we know there was no introduction of new tax burdens. However, the state left part of the income tax to local self-government units, reduced tax, or VAT on the press, reduced excise duties on all motor gasoline. In particular, recognition should be given to the successful functioning of the State Treasury system, which is due to this government. This ensures the operationality of the single account, as well as the more efficient control of the spending of state money, and the transparency of the state budget. This year's calculation of the state budget is, of course, the result of a stable macroeconomic situation in 2007, and all macroeconomic indicators are more than positive from the growth of the gross domestic product of 5.6%, which, of course, resulted in an increase in gross social product per capita from 7700 to 8500 euros, i.e. a 10.3% increase in gross domestic product, and unemployment in the Republic of Croatia has been significantly reduced and the rate has been the lowest since Croatia's sovereignty. Croatian entrepreneurs have done their best in the last 5 years and 68% have earned profits. Of course, such a stable macroeconomic situation also reflected foreign investment in Croatia and investments, which were also recordable in 2006, amounted to 3.6 billion euros or 888m euros more than in 2006. This annual accounts of the state budget confirms the fact that the system of state finances is fully governed, that the state has financial stability, that the real budget is successfully implemented by the government's development and social policy and that the commitments to all the users of the state budget are settled neatly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15644	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So we can be happy to say that we have a report on the best budget in the history of the Republic of Croatia. So, all congratulations to the Ministry of Finance, of course, and to the general government that has managed to enter into this budget such statistical indicators that, and if they are deliberately interpreted, they are still good. I will only mention a return on revenue by 13.8%, expenditure by 13.7%, the biggest increase in income so far and there should be added financial discipline consolidated balance management and the strong efforts that the ministry has made along with the entire government to reduce the general government deficit that came here to 2.3%. What does that mean? Let's remember that somewhere in 2002, 2003, it was over 6%, 6.4%. From 6.4% to 2.3%, it's a huge effort that I don't remember being recorded in any European country at such short intervals. What does it mean to reduce the country's deficit by half a percent or by one percent we see in countries that have a much longer tradition in the strict financial discipline of business? How much pain and effort this requires, so this is a data that must definitely be highlighted because it has also affected the reduction of external debt in the part that the country itself is responsible for has affected the investment plan because it has put confidence in foreign investors. Well, only in connection with the foreign debt arising from this budget should it be pointed out and pointed out over and over again. Foreign debt is often blamed on the government. In 2007, the government reduced the country's share of foreign debt from 40.8%, compared to gross national income to 37.8%. So, a reduction that is respectable in one year, which is to be welcomed and which should continue. Let's remember that in 2005, that stake was still 43.7% high, and now it's 37.8%. Therefore, it is the result of overall efforts to reduce the state's share of external debt. The remaining part of the external debt of banks, entrepreneurs, etc. Not always for criticism because a large part of this debt is returned in the form of investments in production and job creation, increased gross social product, etc. So we must be objective in criticising the increase in the total debt in which the state has shown its struggle to reduce its stake in it. One of the main consequences is the increase in the confidence of foreign investors, so the external investments also in 2007 that we are talking about reached a record, the highest level in history. They amounted to $3 billion in 600 million, which is absolutely the biggest investment, and this is the result of general trust. In addition to all the elements I have talked about and a general political climate that we must take great care of because trust is fragile as the most fragile glass and only one statement by a respected politician about a bad situation in the Croatian economy, in the judiciary, etc. can scare, shake an external investor and reduce external investment. That is why it is the responsibility of each and every one of us in the position and opposition when we speak of the reality that we have to show, not the black numbers that, for political reasons or political reasons, we paint blackly discourage external investors because it returns as a boomerang to the entire state. I'd like to warn you of a few more interesting things here. In this budget, we have elements of the development budget and elements of the social budget. I would remind myself that in 2007 subsidies to public sector companies increased 6%, over 2 billion kuna, that subsidies to entrepreneurs outside the public sector increased as much as 19% or over 4 billion and 280 million kuna. This was due to the policy of investment in small entrepreneurship, in crafts, in medium-sized enterprises, in agriculture. So the development project in these figures is clearly outlined. At the same time, one of the mirrors of the state's social policy and this budget is compensation to the citizens. At the same time, pensions increased by 6.2%, maternity benefits of over 7%, 7.2%, child's allowance of over 30% or 1.9 billion kuna. So definitely the budget that was both encouraging and social, which is to say hello. And something I always calculate in every budget. How much of this budget went to the rescue of the consequences of the war in Croatia? Aggression to Croatia, they say, is a topic you can't talk about anymore, it's behind us. When I summed up the items relating to giving, which are the result of the war, then I calculated that the 10% of the budget still goes to war damage resolutions, whether in the form of investments or in the form of giving to those who earned it under the law. So 10% of the budget. If it hadn't been for the war, it would have been focused on these incentives and on these social givings, what would be the result then, and what kind of picture would that be? But I think it's my duty to say something about that part of the health care budget. I am sure it is actually becoming the most painful expenditure item of the Croatian budget. So the health part of the budget reached 15% of the state budget or 7.5% of the gross national income, and that is the top that can reach health expenditure. Unfortunately, with such expenditures, we accumulate a loss of between 3 and 4 billion kunas per year, which the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia has to deal with in rebalances. How long will this work, I don't know, and here it is necessary to find a safe permanent solution in health reform that should not be built into great wisdom but should be copied what other European countries have done. However, in this budget in that health care, we really see that the budget, state or if you want the Ministry of Finance to be prone to developing national health in Croatia because the expenditures have indeed not only met the implementation of the plan in all primary health care items, from the issue of medicines, from hospital health care, but also have even funded something that should not be financed exactly as we are, and these are sickness benefits. I'll remind you that in 2007, we had 30 million days of sick leave, translated into working years, and we had 110 thousand working years of sick leave. That's an increase compared to the previous year about 8.4% as I calculated 8.38%. That's inadmissible. We need to examine the causes, we need to fight it. We cannot transfer social problems or any other problems to the burden of health care. Of course, we all know of the recovery of the debt by large-scale drugs and thus allow normal functioning. I'd just mention investments from the Department of Health. So it was a year of good investment in the health system, so I would just remind you that it was invested in KBC Rijeka 24 million kuna, KBC Zagreb 32 million kuna, KB Dubrava 27 million kuna, General Hospital Zabok 33 million kuna, etc. etc. That out of the Council of Europe's loan comes three loans, one 46, one 61, one 97 million kuna. That we have a World Bank loan to invest in health care of 36 million kuna. More than 12.5 million kuna was invested in information. I must say that the special item of emergency intervention in cardiac diseases saved hundreds of lives, dying from an acute heart attack decreased significantly, costing 14 million kuna, which the ministry financed. Renovating old equipment 40 million, expensive drugs, etc. etc. So that year, that successful 2007 was a resolute ministry, i.e. the government was broad-handed and for health care, although I say there needs to be a thorough reform because I don't know if it's feasible on the long track. And final. Had it not been for such a good budget in 2007, the global crisis in 2008 would have had a stronger impact on the Republic of Croatia, so this report should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15646	Thank you very much. At 16,41, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. We have one replica. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15647	Thank you very much. Mr. Hebrang held an exhibition that is consistent with what we said, like we're not in the same situation, or we're not looking at the same figures. And he talked about reducing the share of the state in the total foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia as if it were not 35 billion euros today, higher than ever compared to last year 15% higher than last year, transposing each child born in Croatia automatically by 8 thousand euros. So, Mr. Hebrang, these are data that are quite heavy and that you can't embellish in a way that reduces the percentage of the state as if this rest of the government and whoever's in power isn't concerned. And on the other hand, I said, the result of the 2007 budget is an inflation of 8% this year. Therefore, regardless of whether it is achieved in 100%, whether the revenues are higher or lower, but the direct consequence of this budget is inflation and the worse life of Croatian citizens this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15648	Answer, Mr. Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15649	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras did not read the agenda point, I was talking about execution for 2007, because it is a topic, and in this, the country's share of total foreign debt was reduced from 40.8% of gross domestic product to 37.8%. These are figures that even you can't turn into negatives because they are extremely positive and a significant reduction in the share of the state in external debt, we'll be discussing soon. As for the impact of the 2007 policy on 2008 policy, you must have basic knowledge from economics and macro-financials, and each MP would have to have it, show that in 2007, it was not this high-quality, major global crisis in 2008 would have even more serious consequences. Thank God she didn't have them and this budget was like that. The inflation of 2008 is not affected by this 2007 budget but is influenced by the mortgage loans of American banks, you have seen the drama that is now happening in the recovery of these banks, food collection, energy collection, etc. So we can't mix pears and apples and have one good job overshadowed by something that has arisen as a consequence of the global crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15650	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Vesna Buterin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15651	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chief State Treasury Officer, colleagues and fellow MPs. In 2007, the year was marked by a favourable macroeconomic movement where I primarily think of a significant reduction in the fiscal deficit by 0.7%, which was at the end of 2.3%, which is even 0.7% lower than the level of European criteria. Economic growth has been moving at 4.8% in the last four years with a growth acceleration trend and real growth of the gross domestic product of 5.6% in 2007. Gross domestic product per capita increased from 7.000 700 euros in 2006 to about 8.5 thousand euros in 2007. Unemployment has been reduced and it is important to say that the number of unemployed was lower in all months of 2007 compared to 2006. In December 2007, about 38 thousand 700 or 13.2% of less unemployed persons were registered than in December 2006, resulting from well-leaded economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, when it comes to the budget, we must stress that some key issues have been addressed in 2007 such as providing additional funds for the settlement of eligible persons in health care, free textbooks and the transport of high school students, increasing subsidies to farmers, increasing benefits for unemployed and increasing children's allowance. When it comes to entrepreneurship, I would especially like to stress that entrepreneurship and business environment promotion programmes have increased by 2.1 billion kuna over the last three years. Only for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, 294 million kuna has been allocated for the implementation of the production, development of a small economy, promotion of investment, promotion of entrepreneurship, development of craftsmanship and education programmes, and the creation of a craft register. It also subsidises interest on loans and provides support to entrepreneurship. It should also be noted that the funds for agriculture and fisheries have increased by 1.2 billion kuna over the last three years. I particularly stress that the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has increased by 2.5 billion kuna over the last three years. The Croatian Government is aware of the need to improve the education system and conditions of education, and to coordinate the acquisition of expertise and skills with the needs of the labour market. Through the education system, the government wants to create a quality and professional workforce that will raise the Croatian economy to a higher level of economic development. Thus, free textbooks are provided to all primary school students and first grade high school students and free transportation is provided. As part of the population policy, the protection of motherhood and parenthood is centrally placed and a system of compensation and maternity leave is strengthened. The total allocations for population policy rose from 2006 to 1.1 billion kuna in 2007. Finally, I would like to stress that the 2007 budget for pensions is increasing by 6% compared to the previous year, while health and social care allocations have increased by 19%. The 19% also included a one-time investment in healthcare of 1.7 billion kuna to address the long-term problem of the commitments reached. For this reason, I am giving full support to the report of the 2007 annual budget account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15652	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15653	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The 2007 budget 108 and a half billion from the total GDP of 275 billion. So it's about managing over 40% of this country's money. It is about managing 40, over 40% of the money that Croatia creates, the values that Croatian citizens create. Looking at the macroeconomic indicators I've been talking about, and I'm going to talk to the CNB, I can't be satisfied. Total public debt increases at 6% of GDP per year, gross social product. 20 billion kunas a year. The economic growth dynamics of the situation in 2007 was 5.6%, due to high personal consumption, due to the payment of debt to pensioners by selling Croatian telecommunications, which generated 6 billion new kunas in a system that was mostly spent on personal consumption and contributed 2 percentage points to the index of economic growth by 5.6%, without it would have been 3.6%. Unfortunately, such growth dynamics, which will be at 3.7% next year in 2008, and if we add an inflation of 7.6%, is twice as much as inflation. And then the story of an increase of 3.4% of gross wages falls into the water because inflation eats everything that grows and citizens will feel it on their skin anyway, but they could already feel changes in terms of the deterioration of the quality of the standard itself and that's something that's undeniable, that's something that no one's doubting about, and that's something that everyone agrees with. What I must stress is by looking at the negative current balance, meaning the coverage of imports by export, it has never been more negative and at a level of $13 billion. There are two ways to pay for this negativity. One is an increase in domestic export production, and the other is by selling out national wealth. Unfortunately, the increase in domestic production of exports is not realized and what happened in 2007, which is the sale of national wealth through the sale of shares of Croatian telecommunications is one of the generators of growth which is in fact somehow responsible for covering this deficit. Without systematic economic policy, the strategic economic policy has no wage increases, there is no payment of that external debt and these are all the effects that lead to it. Let me give you an example. Over 3 billion kunas give the Croatian state a subsidy to agriculture. We export slightly more than 5 billion agricultural products. So we're subsidizing 60% of our exports, while only in July this year compared to last year, last year we registered 30% higher imports of agricultural goods. This is a serious problem that we will face especially in the coming year, and I daren't say what kind of repression it will have on our citizens, but also on fiscal policy. As for business revenues themselves, it was mentioned in the discussions of some colleagues that the budget was being filled up and increased in record, but the fact is that it grew partly due to a new borrowing of 11 and a half billion. That should also be said and should not be avoided. I'll read some items that seem important to me. Encouraging employment means when. We are used to all of Croatia in redistribution policy, so the private sector, entrepreneurs do something, then the state takes its part and then the state deploys depending on it, depending on the policy at a certain point on the state who needs what for certain needs in social, cultural and any other sense. However, it is not hard to spend. Money isn't hard to spend. It's hard to create it and it's hard to focus it on quality development programs and so actually... And shocked that, for example, for the promotion of exports this year, only 11 million kuna spent by the Ministry of Economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to encourage employment compared to the amount envisaged, 8 million kunas were spent less. So that item isn't exhausted until the end. The Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds has an execution of 60%, as if it were not a strategic matter for the Croatian economy. In the overall economy and entrepreneurship, the execution was less for 40 million kuna, but a parallel data from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, its administration spent 20 million kuna more in 2007. The Development and Employment Fund also 15 million kunas less. I was reading this picture book and I came across a text that is very important, and it is in line with the spirit of the commitment that we gave support to in the fifth month of May of this year, as regards the European Charter of Local Self-Government, says a fairer distribution of tax revenues in view of regional development. Now, just in this year and last year, this Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, passed a series of laws that directly reduced income to local self-government units. I'll remind you of some of them. The profit tax redistribution law, meaning this redistribution of profit tax in the parallel tables for two years with an old and new calculation, the total lack of units of local self-government, that's statistics, that's data from the Ministry of Finance, that's not my data, was 1.9 billion kuna. Furthermore, the Law on personal deduction, i.e. the movement of personal deductions from a thousand 600 to a thousand 800 kuna, according to the applicant's data, was directly damaged by the units of the local self-government of 290 million kuna. That's the data you wrote in the law's explanation, I didn't write it. Furthermore, local self-government units are limited to 20% and public sector companies, which is definitely the same thing done immediately from decentralisation to centralisation. It's the third law. The agreement for the 556 cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is given by the finance minister. I ask myself, how can the Minister of Finance know better what the situation is in 556 units of local self-government? It's also one law third in a series that hasn't affected decentralisation. Not to mention the laws on changing certain members and consent to the school principal, and regarding the founders, not to mention another set of legal regulations that have shifted the level of centralisation from what should be. We have made it clear to the European Charter of Local Self-Government that all decisions relating to local self-government units are made in agreement with them under and another thing to go to decentralisation, which is not only decentralisation of powers and obligations, but also fiscal decentralisation. And I'm sorry that these few laws so damaged, I feel free to say so by the units of local self-government. And I therefore doubt that this budget for 2007, especially the 2008 budget that will come and year after, will be more centralised than any cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15654	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15655	Thank you. Mr. President, so I'll correct one lie, pardon the incorrect interpretation of the gentleman. The laws he mentioned, which went to the harm of local self-government units. That's not true. There are twenty mayors and mayors of local self-government units from all over Croatia here, so I ask that the one who received less income in the last year from the level of the state budget as compared to the previous years raise his hand. According to the information we have, here is a colleague who knows the most, the city of Zagreb suffered the most, and I think that this one Robin Hudovska policy should continue to be dealt with, taken away from the rich, and the City of Zagreb has what was given to us both in areas of special state care, all in order to evenly develop the whole of Croatia and share the meaning of the poorer units of local self-government that just happened in 2007, sixth and fifth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15656	Thank you. We have a conclusion. Five minutes in there has a SDP bench Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15657	Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP club, I noted the great responsibility it is to know how to read statistics and by following the debate we can see the satisfaction of the majority in the Croatian Assembly with statistics. It may be clear to us from the opposition that our thinking, our reading and not to be noticed, nor to be respected, but as a club, we warn you in a way that reads statistics from the National Bank of Croatia which does not express just as much satisfaction with fiscal policy in 2007 and the results achieved with this fiscal policy in 2007. We also warn you about experts from the Institute of Public Finance who talk about how fiscal policies do not yet achieve those objectives of economic policy that are expected. Therefore, perhaps a little less satisfaction and more attention and try to listen to certain messages would give perhaps some changes in fiscal policy that are necessary for this crisis period in 2008. Those messages we're getting are very clear. Gross social product growth is the largest part of consumption. The message is that consumption generates precisely redistribution or distribution of revenues from the state budget towards social and public spending. It is something that experts and the National Bank and the experts of the Institute of Public Finance warn. Also an attempt to say that such strong consumption will not give effect in the fight against the weak position or external vulnerability of the Republic of Croatia and will also not give effect in the fight against inefficientness in providing direct and indirect support in the economy. Those are messages you should hear. It should change something, and at that point I think the effects in the new fiscal year that might be ahead of us could be greater. If you see only your truth in reverse, it is evident that these important changes will not be. What does the SDP Club say makes us particularly dissatisfied? It's okay. Social spending in the budget has been increased. Unfortunately, however, they did not go into the settlement of pension reform and the complete resolution of the problem and pension system of generation solidarity or savings. They're not solved. And also very clearly, but you yourself have indicated increased social benefits have not solved the trauma in the health system or reform of the health system. Therefore, they have been increased and unfortunately two important segments of our social relations have not been resolved. We also say the standard of citizens is not good. Unequivocally, all data show that one third of Croatian citizens fall into poverty. And let's stop talking about a citizen who buys a car being a rich citizen and spends. We're going to the car category, and we're going to see that most of these low vehicles are mostly debt-based. With most of it all on debt. So we don't have a simple solution to the standard of living of citizens. And that's why pay's important. And thank God that's when fiscal policy can play a part. My colleague mentioned... for low wages and low net salary growth, real net salary growth last year is too much dividend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's the business of fiscal policy. If they're dividends so no worker pays, there's no investment so there's a tax on dividends. That's what you have to define. Most of them. There's a weapon of fiscal policy. Turn the money into pay. Turn the money into investment. Whether positive or negative changes in tax policy and fiscal policy choose it but these are the changes we expect from you. And of course what do you eventually conclude? We've also seen increased contributions to local self-government, investments in local self-government. Yet last year was an election year and apparently the government in that part was not responsible until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15658	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 5. Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that the majority of the vote is 74 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and against 26th annual accounts of the State budget for 2007. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Budget Act of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes agreeing on: annual accounts of the financial plan of the year 2007 of the Croatian Waters, annual accounts of the financial plan for 2007 of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, annual accounts of the financial plan for the year 2007 of the Croatian highways, annual accounts of the financial plan for 2007 of the Croatian Roads, annual accounts of the financial plan for 2007 of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Recovery of Banks and annual accounts of the financial plan for the year 2007 of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Please, who's in charge of this committee's conclusion? Let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes; 74 votes for, 4 abstentions and 22 against the accepted annual accounts of these financial plans that I have read. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Parliament and the following conclusion: A report on the use of the 2007 budget is accepted. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal. The result? I find that most votes; 74 votes for, 4 abstentions and 21 against this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15661	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, this may be unusual, but two discussions continue. First the report for last year, and now the report for the first six months, but so it is. But we can also see the continuity of something. But what I would like to say here is not the fictional data of the Ministry of Finance, but the data of the State Bureau of Statistics and the Croatian National Bank, and given that today there was a report and the governor of the Croatian National Bank, I think he also pointed out in his report the good moves of fiscal policy because look at not only monetary policy but only fiscal policy could answer the tasks that were ahead of us because he wanted to, wanted to admit, whether it was an inflation in the first eight months, all the international financial institutions estimated that the Croatian financial market had welcomed it, and there were no significant earthquakes. But I'm saying that everyone has the right to their views and their views and ultimately it's democracy. About who was rightly elected by voters after 4 years and a year ago showed how they assessed the fiscal HDZ policy and the monetary policy run by the Croatian National Bank in 2007. The logical thing therefore is that the result of such a policy supported by Croatian citizens is the State budget implementation report for 2007. So if citizens and voters are judges, then they have given their judgment on this policy. But let's not talk about what we discussed before. So allow me just a few introductory words regarding the implementation of the state budget for the first six months. So the real growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter was 4.3%, with the largest real growth recorded at 9.8% investment. Inflation measured by the consumer price index was 6.2% in the first half. And it's something no matter how many of us talked today we predicted, we spoke, but last year at this time no one talked about that inflation in 2008 would be at 6%. Also when we had budget rebalances in the 6th month, there are many here on my left, on the right when looking from above, talking about inflation being 8 or 10%. But now starting with the governor of the Croatian National Bank through his deputy who is even more optimistic, which speaks of 5% today, Mr Rohatinski and all economic analysts are talking about inflation of 6.6 per cent. Now watch if there were any forecasts that inflation would be 10.12%. If fiscal policy has done nothing to end with a magic wand, inflation will be within the frameworks foreseen in the rebalancing of the state budget that was in the 6th month and also foreseen in the fiscal projections for the next three years. So we need to know what we were saying five, six months ago, what we're saying today, and what real indicators are today, real results. Taking new statistics to measure inflation is not good. The methodology for measuring such inflation has been used for the last 15 years. And so just to prove that something like this is going to change the methodology isn't good. It's not good because they're watching us and listening to someone else in a certain way and deciding our fate. If nothing else about the credit rating in the Republic of Croatia. So industrial production in, on an annual level grew in the first quarter 4.8%. In the second trimester of 3.8 or in the first half of 4.3%. The total number of tourist arrivals is 5% higher than it was last year. But what, with economic growth, with inflation still being held at some levels, is that at the annual level, the number of unemployed is down by 27258 or 10.9%. So, based on these economic indicators, the revenues of the state budget in the first half of 2008 were achieved in the amount of HRK 57.7 billion or 11.2% more than in the same period and last year, with all due to colleagues working to raise funds in the state budget, this is not exclusively the result of inflation, but this is also the result of the impact of a portion of the grey economy that this government has been doing successfully for five years, and this is ultimately seen in the growth of the state budget. So, the most significant group of incomes are tax revenues that amounted to 33.3 billion kuna in the first term or 11.8% higher. There is primarily a value added tax of 20.4 billion kuna or 13.4% higher. At the same time, revenue from the contribution was achieved by 19.8 billion or 9.7% more than the previous year. Therefore, these indicators clearly show certain stability in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what we can agree on and on social policy and on support to local self-government units and investment in infrastructure and support to the economy that someone would want to do this one way or another. But I would still let me not want to react when Honorable colleague Linic spoke. We can't consider pensions a social category. Mirovina has acquired the right that Croatian citizens have earned through their work by paying a long series into the Mirovinski Fund. So we can't talk about the social situation. It's not social. This right was achieved, as they paid in the Mirovinski Fund during their entire working life, and some others at the time received a pension from these payments. So today we who work are paying into the fund to pay out pensions both in the government and in the Croatian Democratic Community cannot possibly accept that pensions are treated as a social category. But the truth is that there has been an increase in the number of social benefits. You can see that in the budget. However, in order not to argue about that, and not to fire empty rifles, we at the Ministry of Finance decided to make a register of all social benefits in the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that we all finally see what social benefits this country gives and which are received by Croatian citizens. And tomorrow, when a personal identification number is introduced, we'll have an instrument on the one hand that we can track with, on the other hand, we'll have all the donations listed in one place, and then I think they'll finally be able to run one more just social policy. And I think that's where the left and right sides of the Croatian Parliament agree. But in order to do that, we just have to get in a position to have instruments to implement it. We all stayed surprised and shocked when we made a register of non-taxable donations, because no one ever dealt with it. We've been working on it for over a year. That's probably how it's gonna be with the social security register. We also want to make a register of support in the Republic of Croatia parallel to that. We also see who gets the money, why money is given, and what the effects of these givings are. Well, you don't have to give someone money just because they're dealing with something, and you don't expect it to be based on the support it gets from the state budget tomorrow has better results or what we've pointed out over the past six months. It doesn't make sense if you give someone support for certain production to be competitive on the market, and in spite of these support, they raise prices in the heavens. And that's the same thing that needs to be said out loud and clear. Because when you look at how much support they are in the economy, how much support they are in agriculture, then you'll see that it's not exactly such a negligible amount, but it's a pretty big amount, and it's something that's certain when we look at this economic growth and when we look at certain economic branches, whether we agree whether these support is large or small, but if they're not what they are, it would be the very existence of subordinate economic branches. And that's the same fact we can't escape from. However, we had the Law on Support in the Croatian Parliament, and with this law we also wanted to clearly define who and how he had the right to receive support with only one reason to use the state budget as much as possible. And as soon as we use them as much as possible then those who need to get the money will be able to get more money than they would otherwise get. So, if you look at the state budget in the first half, then he recorded a total surplus of revenue compared to total expenditures of 2.8 billion kuna or what I'm already talking about from this pay phone a third or fourth time for the reason that he does the Croatian public and does us need to highlight some things, which is when we love each other here in the Parliament depending on how we fit at any point in time we need a small deficit or at some point if someone has managed to reduce the deficit then we want to defuse it and we'll start to talk about being a greater deficit and that the deficit should be invested in consumption. However, first of all, Croatian citizens who fill the state budget and Croatian businessmen should be clearly told that the deficit costs, and this deficit costs you as much as your interest item is in the position of the state budget. And now take what that cost would be if the deficit hadn't fallen to this level that it fell to. However, when you exempt interest from the state budget from the expenditure, then you will see that from the tax revenues the central government can fully finance all its expenditures, finance interest. And I'm saying, and when you eliminate those interest rates, then you'll see that the central state is already in surplus right now. This should be made clear no matter how politically we differ or disagree, and there are some facts and I am particularly pleased today that the SDP club has supported all these financial laws that should not be disputed, because this should be of common interest. There are other issues where we can politically discuss whether we should do this, should we? But I think consolidated public finances, that macroeconomic stability and that balanced state budget is the goal of all of us. And that, too, in order to get to that, we can't do it and do it without structural reforms. And certain structural reforms are painful and precisely because they are painful there is also a need for unity, not a political attack. Because look, as inflation took hold in the first six months, it was very difficult to stop because we haven't affected many sides, so your deficit is also a very dangerous thing. When you give someone the right to the state budget, you'll have a very hard time reducing it. And if you can't make it out of the current income, I've made you have a higher deficit, that you have to borrow, or when I'm talking about deficits and borrowing... take it that we haven't been able to reduce the deficit to this level that we've reduced to, that we've had to be in debt for three or four or five billion kunas on such a unstable financial market as it has been in the last six or seven months around the world, and you can imagine what kind of state it would be in. You wouldn't be in a bright spot at all. Also, if the state had a problem with borrowing outside covering the deficit, be assured that the lack of funds would be felt by our economies. However, our businessmen today, if they are not satisfied with the conditions on the domestic financial market, many of them can go outside and self-indebted. This is the consequence of a particular policy. It's nothing by chance. Just as the European Investment Bank gives us loans under the same conditions as it does to members of the European Union, which was not 4, 5, 6 or 7 years ago. So, and it's the result of some trust or confirmation of someone, is good you've done something about it we'll reward you for. Why am I saying all this? So I'm talking because when you take all these parameters into account and you take the indicators of the implementation of the state budget, I repeat, we can differ over some things, but also some things that are well done can't be denied. And that's why I sincerely hope that through this debate about budgeting for the first six months there will be things that we won't agree on, but I also think there are things that we should welcome together because they are good, and if they are good, then they are good for all of us no matter what political option we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15662	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15663	Thank you very much, respect for the minister, Mr. President, State Secretary and State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, the minister gave an inspired speech as if the situation were maltene if not shiny, then least good, but we must refer to some information for public reasons, but as the minister said and for the sake of the public and for our own sake. The fact is that today in Croatia the growth rate is much smaller than it was last year. The minister said, we finished a year with 5.6%, now in the first quarter it was 4.3%. I must remind you that last year has been much, much better, especially as far as industrial growth is concerned. Last year we had industrial growth 5.6%, industrial growth for the first 7 months of this year 3.9%. Last year he was over seven and a half percent. What does that tell us? It tells us that our growth certainly won't stop at this 4%, it'll probably be something lower by the end of the year. On the other hand, when we look at inflation, that is, what we ended up with last year. Inflation was moving slightly above 3%. This year, at the 7th month, inflation was 8.4%. When compared to the growth of either 4% and the inflation of 8%, it would be as great as the minister said we have lower inflation by the end of the year. But about who said what, who predicted what, we'll see what happens. At this point, 8% of inflation in Croatia is double that of growth. On the other hand, it means that Croatian citizens will not be able to follow with either salaries or what they will buy from inflation that is in action today in Croatia. When we talk about the state budget, first-term business revenues are up by 11.6%, business expenditure by 8.8%. That sounds like at least we're going to reduce the deficit, it might be good, but when we look at the structure from which these revenues are the most increased we need to see that the revenues are the most full of citizens. The largest increase was from the increase in value added tax compared to 13.4%, i.e. last year and income was some of the profit tax. So citizens, when we look at nominally approximately this year's budget, which is planned at 115 billion kuna compared to last year, 108 billion kuna. 7 billion kuna budget increases from VAT will be charged 4 billion kuna, and who paid the VAT, the value added tax? Are those entrepreneurs? No, because entrepreneurs are in the VAT system. They have the right to pre-tax and pay VAT. It was paid by Croatian citizens at this rate of 8.4% inflation. On the other hand, we said business expenditures were slightly lower than income increases, but where did this go down compared to last year? It has been reduced because moderate, or less than last year, compensation for employees and social benefits has increased. This has led to a reduction in the expenditure of the state budget. On the other hand, also in the revenues of the state budget, which we did not have last year are revenues from HT and INA dividends. The same dividends that my colleague Linic was talking about and which we may have been able to direct to wage growth, so the state has been revenueing into its budget. On the other hand, when we talk about some indicators that are in Croatia today. The debt of the central state amounted to $11.6 billion in the first half of this year, which is 1.5 billion more than last year. The foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia was 35 billion euros. As I said, every child born in Croatia is automatically owed 8000 euros. On the other hand, a gross social product this is all we're talking about, what could we get back from? From the fact that we make more money than we spend, that growth is bigger than consumption. Gross social product shows it slows down in the first quarter of this year to slow GDP growth from 7% in the first quarter of last year to 4.3% in the first quarter of this year. When we say if our citizens have money, do they live better, do they live better than last year? One of the signals could be a little shop for us. When we look at real this year, traffic growth in the first seven months was 1.7%, which is by 4.9% slower growth dynamics than last year. It's very logical to conclude why? Because citizens have less and less money every day to meet their needs. Inflation, aggregate prices. The annual inflation rate in July 2008 was 8.4%. They would say and probably some of the HDZ counterparts will explain it again to mortgage loans, the difficult situation in the world, the rise in oil prices. But they have the same situation as other countries in the world, so in the European Union 15 is inflation 3.7%. In the European Union in these 27 extended, the European Union's last enlargement is an inflation of 4.4%. So 4.4% on the one hand, they have the same conditions about the world, so America affects them and us, but the difference is 4%. I think we need to be a little more realistic when we're looking for an apology on one side, which is why such an inflation rate is in Croatia and which is why it can't be less. If you look maybe closer to our neighbours, we can take one Slovenia that has 1.5% lower inflation than it is in Croatia. Employment and wages. When we look at salaries in the first half of this year, under the influence of rising inflation, the first time in a long time has been recorded a fall in real wages, which specifically means that Croatian citizens could buy less goods and services than they could buy before their receipts. Economic relations with abroad, someone talked about how much we import, how much we export, and that's the main problem I think the overall adverse economic situation in Croatia and what I resent that through the budget is no longer investing in the development of our entrepreneurship in exports, because this year we have again a negative balance of trade in goods with abroad that shows a very high trend of growth. Last year we had, as I said before, about 10 billion euros, that's about 70 billion kuna, and this year in the first seven months we already have 50 billion kuna, which means if we continue at this rate, that difference will probably be 84 billion kuna by the end of the year. When we add it all together and look at it, the fact is that the situation is not so great in Croatia and that he said the minister who voted last year, but I believe that neither the voters who voted for HDZ are likely to vote for the fact that this government is unable to fight the inflation of 8.4% and is unable to help Croatian citizens to live better. What we from the SDP club say is that it would be fairer and that it must be done and that this inflationary pressure must be stopped on Croatian citizens and that some redistribution must be made in the budget. What redistribution? First, that must be done and here we will give support to both the Minister and the Government in structural reforms in case it goes with a more thrifty budget, and more investment in development and employment on the one hand, and on the other hand in reform, as we have already proposed through several legislative proposals, in the reform and tax system as regards the contribution of citizens to disburse citizens and to make their net wages bigger. As far as reform is concerned, it will absolutely be support from the SDP, but in reform especially when they are structural in terms of what is being invested and must be visible that Croatian citizens will benefit from it in the future. Unfortunately, we have not seen this benefit for Croatian citizens from this accounting as well as when accepting the 2008 budget and have warned of many of the situations that are happening now, and some have mentioned now about the real decline in the standards of Croatian citizens, you have not listened to us. We will continue to propose, we are preparing some legal solutions, I hope that if you expect us to support your good proposals, that you too, our good proposals... It'll be good, it's only important, and it's a good will that we finally agree that some things need to be changed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So here I am finally saying that we can't support it, although this is technically just,... Yes, we can't support this reckoning because of what we've been warning about, that again all the burden of the state's unfavourable economic situation has fallen on the back of citizens who are getting less and less money every day anyway. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15664	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15665	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's colleague Maras incorrectly claims, skipping clear countries that have more inflation in the European Union than we do, that we have the same conditions as Europe, as well as European countries, which is clearly not true. Europe does not give such money to rebuild and the consequences of the war and the rest, but I am extremely pleased with the perception of the gentleman that this government has created conditions for our citizens to feel like they are living in developed European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15666	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15667	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The State budget for January/June 2008 showed that macroeconomic developments marked the real growth of the gross domestic product of 4.3% in the first quarter of 2008. Given the expected growth of certain macroeconomic indicators such as industrial production, retail trade and tourist indicators are expected to continue economic activity and the real growth of the gross domestic product of 4.4% throughout the year. The total number of persons employed in June 2008 was 222,000 290, which is the historical lowest number of unemployed and recorded an annual reduction of 27 thousand 258 or 10.9%. The implementation of the budget in the first half of 2008 confirms the continuation of the implementation of the fiscal adjustment. Compared to the 2008 income plan, 49.8% of total revenues were achieved, i.e. in absolute amounts of 57.7 billion kuna and should be noted that this is by 11.2% higher than the same period of the previous year. In doing so, the highest annual increase recorded tax revenues from which value added tax, profit tax and income tax and contributions that grew in line with the growth of nominal gross earnings and employment. On the other hand, total expenditures amounted to HRK 54.9 billion, i.e. 8.8% more than in the same period of the previous year, compared to the 2008 State budget plan, expenditure was made by 47%. Looking at the programme implementation of the budget in the first half of 2008, good implementation dynamics had, among other things, activities and projects related to promoting the business environment, increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and social policy programmes. Total subsidies to companies, craftsmen, small and medium-sized enterprises were made in the amount of 3.6 billion kuna and 22.2% more than in the same period of the previous year. Activities and projects from the support programme in agriculture and fisheries were implemented with 62.85% compared to the plan set. For pensions and pension incomes allocated in the first half of 2008 amounted to 16.1 billion kuna, which is a significant increase compared to the same period of the previous year. The result of the legal changes that reduced the difference between old and new pensioners and the increase in pensions for disabled and family pensions. The benefits in the health care and welfare system were made in the amount of 9.9 billion kuna. For children's allowance and maternity benefits, 1.8 billion kuna or 50% of the plans were allocated in the first 6 months, which points to a good dynamic of the implementation of the national population policy programme. So we can conclude that the achievement of the budget in the first half of 2008 was very successful. In fact, good income performance, effective allocation of budget resources and continuation of fiscal consolidation are the results of surplus total revenues at total budget revenue expenditures of 2.8 billion kuna. It teaches some opinions in previous discussions and on the previous point where the billing was discussed, the annual accounting for 2007. Of course, I would point out that it is always good to hear different opinions because it encourages thinking, and thinking leads to different solutions. And it's worth hearing Mr. Linic's opinion on a small increase in net wages, but that employees should have higher salaries, we from HDZ think. The standard of citizens is a subject that should be interested and occupied by all political parties, but it is worth repeating the standard of citizens can be improved in a number of ways, but the most effective ways of employment are then decent and decent wages. That the government has created conditions to encourage entrepreneurship proves that in 2007, entrepreneurs have achieved the highest amount of profits so far, and some companies have achieved an increase in profits from as much as 30% to 35% compared to 2006, and I have already talked about reducing unemployment. The salaries of employees at the same time as the profit grew to 30% have increased slightly or remained the same in these same companies. But that's why I'm going to repeat again it's not fiscal policy, because it's done its own, it's unfair and disproportionate distribution, and it really has places for redistribution, which is the job of employers and trade unions. Due to all the above, the HDZ club will vote in favour of accepting the conclusion that a report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 for the first half of 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15668	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15669	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The 2008 budget ensures continuity in the construction of Croatia as a country of economic development and progress, uniform regional development, competitive forces, knowledge and excellence, social justice and the European Union. Thus, this half-year report on the implementation of the 2008 state budget represents the continuity and implementation of that policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Several important economic indicators that define the macroeconomic environment in Croatia should be highlighted at the beginning, in the first half of the current year. Thus, the real annual growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter was 4.3% where the fastest growth was recorded in capital investments with a real increase of 9.8%. Industrial production increased by 3.8% in the second quarter and the number of unemployed was reduced in June by 27.2000 or 10.9%, and a further reduction in the unemployment rate is expected by the end of the year thanks to the very efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The total revenues of the state budget, which take into account the revenues from the business and proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets, were realised in the first half of the year in the amount of HRK 57.7 billion, which is 11.2% higher than in the same period of the previous year. This high growth in the total revenues of the state budget in the first half of 2008 is the result of an increase in economic activity and more effective collection of tax revenues. Business revenues were achieved at an amount of 57.6 billion kuna, which accounts for an increase of 11.6%. In these revenues, the most significant tax revenues that have been achieved in the amount of HRK 33.3 billion are the annual growth of 11.8%. The total expenditure of the state budget was planned for 2008 amounting to kuna 118.4 billion, of which operating expenditures are €114.7 billion and expenditures for the purchase of non-financial assets of $ 3.8 billion. The implementation of total expenditure in the first half of this year was 54.9 billion kuna. According to these data, an excess of 2.8 billion kuna has been achieved. When we talk about expenditures, I would especially point out that 49.9% of total expenditure for subsidies in absolute amounts of 3 and a half billion kuna was made in the first term. It is also important to stress that the share of subsidies to companies, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs outside the public sector is increasing in the structure of total subsidies, and the share of subsidies in the public sector is decreasing. Compensation for citizens and households is the most significant item of expenditure, and concerns social benefits, insurance benefits and other fees for citizens and households from the budget. So in the first half of 2008, these fees amounted to €28.532 billion, which is about 49.2% of the plan for 2008. As part of these expenditures in this group, the largest part of the expenditure relates to pensions and pension incomes amounting to HRK 16.1 billion, as well as benefits in the health care and social care system. What I would like to point out in the end is that for children's allowance and maternity benefits, 9.8% more funds were allocated in the first half of 2008 than in the same period of the previous year. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I support the report on the half-year budget implementation for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15670	Thank you. We have replicas. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15671	Thank you very much. Here is my colleague Butarin, in her presentation, mentioned that this budget, which is based on last year's budget, ensures that Croatia is a country of development, growth, etc. And explained that in the first seven months industrial production grew by 3.9%. It's like she didn't grow 5.6% last year and a long line of years before that more than 3.9%. So, this is fellow Buterin as if you said that Croatia is a country of growth if industrial growth was 1.2% or 0.6%. You understand, if you have a situation where you have objective inflation on one side, you have to ensure a continuous high rate of industrial growth. On the other hand, you mentioned contributions, which was why social contributions were well implemented, etc. I.e. social and other benefits. I must say that part of the surplus that the budget has achieved relative to the last year is exclusively going from social benefits, because social benefits have least grown. When we look at last year's 7.9%. On the one hand, we do not ensure sufficient economic growth, and on the other hand we save on social benefits. Maybe it's an explanation that it's not an election year after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15672	Answer, Mrs. Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15673	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Mars, you obviously didn't fully listen to me, or you only heard what you wanted to hear. In fact, when I was talking about economic development and progress, I was primarily with what you said, and that is an indicator of economic indicators in one country, that is, economic development and progress, a reduction in the unemployment rate. One very serious and very referenced indicator of economic development in a particular country. The economic indicator in the Republic of Croatia decreased by 10.9% in the first six months of 2008 compared to the previous year. I think that's an indication enough, but I would have asked you in the future to really hear what I'm saying or don't answer my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15674	Thank you. The replica is not about accuracy or inaccuracy. So you can say in the replica, when correcting an incorrect quote, you have to indicate what you're correcting, and in the replica you can do a little bit more freely. Let's get used to it. It doesn't bother you, does it? Mr. Davor Bernardic, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15675	Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. You have well touched domestic production, but with data for the third quarter this year, domestic production, i.e. The growth dynamic of domestic production is somewhere at 3%, which means it's almost double the same period last year, and that's the data that we need and must be concerned about. And I repeat what I have already said in previous discussions, so there is no salary growth, there is no improvement in the standard of living without production, without increasing domestic production, because the only thing left for you as a generator of economic growth, and in order for the personal consumption that is 70% makes economic growth in the Republic of Croatia is at the end of the sale of national wealth. And there are no drivers of the economy without starting domestic production. And that's why the fact that it fell for twice the same disease last year, or the trend of growth, must certainly be concerned and I don't want to share the arguments that we're interpreting statistics in one way or another. I want to interpret the statistics in the light of those problems that we detect to warn them and to solve them. And this should also be the role of this Parliament in the finality of government and all state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15676	Mrs. Wesna Buter's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to remind an esteemed colleague that we're still here to discuss a half-yearly report, and what you're talking about, we're really going to have a chance to talk about when we talk about the 2008 annual budget calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15678	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15679	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have a half-yearly report ahead of us. I stress the half-yearly report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia means for the first half of 2008 which, of course, we will comment differently as already visible from these discussions that are under way. It depends on whether from the point of view of a position that is of course supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of all programmes, so does the Ministry of Finance in relation to representatives in the opposition who, of course, have other tasks in their debate. In my debate, I will stress the revenues of the state budget, because if we have sufficient and quality revenues it is much easier to work their distribution of course on the satisfaction of all budget users. That is why, at the very beginning, I am pleased to fill the state budget, which is, with no small impact on price increases during the first half of 2008, which should not be ignored, however, is the result of increased economic activity and even more high-quality collection of different types of budget revenues. We who in the units of local self-government, cities and municipalities are working with the budget, we are also able to testify on the ground in cities, municipalities of the trend in the growth of budget incomes in particular tax revenues, which is generally a testimony of increased economic activity, and this is also evident if the data on the increased number of employed and the reduction of unemployed at the Employment Office is reported by the lowest unemployment rate for 2007, which is below 10%, which only 222,000 and 290 unemployed persons are talking about in June 2008 which is the least of the existence of an independent and independent Republic of Croatia of the meaning of the Homeland War. Let me just remind you that the revenues of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2004 were 80 billion kuna in 2005, 85 billion kuna, in 2006 95 billion kuna. In 2007 108 billion kuna. And in the first term of this year, 57.7 billion kuna or almost 50% of the plan. Of course, no revenue from tourism. And which leads us to conclude that budget revenues in the last 5 years including the 2008 forecast have increased from 80 to nearly 120 billion kuna of budget revenues. A growth that was definitely difficult to predict as it was skeptics and when the 2008 budget was adopted when the planned incomes are here that are fully realized by God. Of course the skeptics come from the other side of the assembly. By observing the total revenue of the budget in the first half of 2008 reached at HRK 57.7 billion, an increase was seen compared to the same period in 2007 by a lack of 11.2%. Business revenues in the first half of 2008 were 57.6 billion, which accounts for an annual growth of 11.6%. Significant growth was also noted by the most important group of income i.e. tax revenues. Tax revenues were made in the first half of 2008 at €33.3 billion, which accounts for an annual growth of 11.8%. In the tax income structure, the biggest contribution to total growth is made to income from income tax and income from value added tax. The profit tax in the first half of 2008 is 6.2 billion kuna, which accounts for 17.4% growth compared to the same period of the previous year. The value added tax also registered in the first half of 2008 did not have a growth of 20.4 billion kuna and, compared to the same period of the previous year, an increase of 13.4% of course with an expected good tourist season is expected to increase further VAT revenues. This growth is monitored and contributed as well as revenue from assets and other incomes all but excise duties targeted in one part are reduced. I believe that this growth in budget revenues is the result of all of the above-mentioned and continued policies without political stress in the last five years. In addition, this approach to planning and managing budgetary revenues will be welcomed by all budgetary users who participate in the budget with growing funds, as also welcomed by representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15680	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15681	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This debate on this half-year budget execution seems to me quite general. I would like to say a few things about the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and on this example may show something that seems to me more than usual this year in the implementation of the budget and other budget users. Why are we even discussing these half-yearly reports here in the Croatian Parliament? First, on the one hand, let's see in what way we or most of them are but we as the Croatian Parliament have found as a state policy to say so because if we see state policy somewhere and what the state is doing it is seen in the state budget. In what way does the Government and the general executive authority implement that policy? That's one of the purposes of why we're even discussing this half-yearly report. If we look at this Ministry of Education's report, I have to say, two trends have been through these almost 10 years as far as I've been following those, budgets. One time it was modern to rock at 50%. And secondly, the second trend when they were showing, I'm hoping objectively for the costs they've made. This report from this year belongs to this other one. You, for example, in our Ministry of Education, have percentages of executions from 6% to 100% in a half-year period. And it's all like, as such, it wouldn't be dramatic if it wasn't even a place. I have an understanding of understanding of the functioning of the system itself. It is clear to me that some things, procurement and equipment schools and such things are done primarily during July and August when there is no teaching and it makes sense to me that these items are not done. However, we have a number of items here that should have at least partially or to a greater extent been carried out. Why is this especially important for education? If a sector is concerned with continuity, if it is important to have small steps and small shifts in one sector, then it is in education. This kind of budget spending dynamic shows that we don't really know what we want to do with the education system? Depending on what people in the ministry will be like in January, the project "A" is our priority, so we have a lot of money for it because this is close to the budget. Then let us remember in April that we are no longer able to do this because it has become very important for us to implement the project "C". "A" and "C" have nothing to do with it. And you can clearly see that in the state budget. That the policy that is being conducted in education is unconsistant and confusing to all those necessary and important changes. And we end up doing things without actually knowing why we're doing them. A few examples. Application of the textbook standard, below 10%. It was supposed to be done 100%. Everything with the textbooks was over. It had to be over by 6 months because the catalogs were finished on 15.4. There's nothing to do from May to the end of the year. Same thing, making textbooks deficited in vocational school. Twenty-six percent executed. That should be over in the first six months. Student Council, Teachers' Council. It's one of those Ministerial projects last year when it was very important. Done below 1% because this year this project is no longer important. And he stayed as a budget item. Project reform of primary education. Do you know how much it's done with? 4%. 3.85. Under 4%. What, I'm asking now does that mean we gave up on HNOS or what, what, exactly, what was that really about? Modernization of the vocational education programme. 3.93. It had to be over if we did it for this financial year and yes, and the school starts repeating September 1st. That had to be over by June. Revision of existing new programmes in the system of secondary education. Done at 7.05. And such items on these pages you have as much as you want. You have the opposite examples. Accommodation and nutrition of students in student centres. It's all done with 60, 70%. Does that mean we won't have enough money for another six months? As the minister responded to a written parliamentary question. That they would cover it out of their own supply. A colleague from HDZ asked the question, and then the minister responded. If we had put an answer out of opposition, it would have been different. ... The Minister of Education answered, I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So does that mean there won't be enough money? And then, of course, it opens another story. When we were in charge of budgeting, we wrote amendments and said, "My people won't be enough." Then it was rejected and said that we had no idea and that there would be enough money. Now it turns out it won't. Last point we discussed the budget calculation for last year, and then, of course, in that calculation, everything is 100 pure as tears. I ask how we get from 6% to 100% execution in less than six months. The secret lies in redistributions. Last year, the Ministry of Education made from 15 November to 15 December, so in 4 weeks 6 internal redistributions within the budget and each of these 6 neatly published in the “National Journals”. I wonder who's making a budget in this state of Parliament or the ministry, or government through redistribution decisions. And then we will again cover the inconsistency, the misunderstanding in the government's policy makes decisions on redistributing the budget and ultimately the annual account pure as tears, 100%. Was it what the Croatian Parliament found to be a priority? No, I don't. But the paperwork looks good, and that's why I think when we discuss these half-yearly reports, it's important to look at these, too, to say sectoral executions because they actually show what kind of policy we're running. According to data from the implementation of the state budget for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports in the first 6 months, politics is inconsistencies, and the question is how good it is for Croatia. We were saying that, we wrote the amendments, we prayed, the kumili, it didn't go away, and I just hope that on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance will sort of, according to these other budget users, given that it's kind of above them to say that when planning the budget itself, they're going to make it more realistic. So I pray, in some ways, that if not otherwise publicly and the people of the Ministry of Education, that when they plan their budgets, they plan them systematically, because I warn them again that the changes in education must be such that they are poles, that they are continuous, rather than somewhat fragmented and partial as we do, and this is the best evidence of this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15682	Thank you. There's a replica of Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15683	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I will remind my colleague Lugaric that the 2008 budget was adopted in March this year. In addition, only after adoption of the state budget could budget users start with public procurement procedures. You've got a record, so call your co-worker, no problem. It's a replica. Yeah. So, if the state budget was adopted in March, the budget users are moving only afterwards in agreement of the county and everything else in the field of education both in the field of health, social and other public procurement procedures, the approval of certain projects by purchase. I would also like to remind the budget users that they are bonds of compliance with the Public Procurement Act, and that the procurement process is in any case dependent on the value of the items to be purchased by the prescribed procedure and the implementation deadlines. I sincerely believe that these amounts planned in the budget will be spent on purpose during this year, so I remind you that the 2008 budget planned to increase investment in primary education of almost 10%, in secondary education over 12% compared to the previous year, higher education nearly 10%, etc. etc. So let's give the budget users time to implement the procedures in accordance with the law, and the funds are planned in the budget and I believe that they will be spent on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15684	Thank you. Answer by Mrs. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15685	My colleague, we're lucky our minister's different. That would make your argument and your justification, I'm glad you have a need to justify yourself, so that I'm right, it makes sense that this minister is not already the fifth budget. The same minister, the same job at the ministry, they knew everything. You're saying here that it's continuity, that it's the best policy, that we just keep going. Then your justice really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15686	Correction by Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15687	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have applied for the correction of the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Lugaric, who presented in her presentation a number of incorrect allegations that she, namely the selective approach to reading the budget for, the education section. Since I don't dispute with her because she's on the right side of this assembly, but a series of incorrect allegations with a selective approach did not prove that it was true, because she didn't say and didn't look at all those items that were done, which were over 50, over 70%. Because a very good colleague knows the functioning and system of the school year and the life of the school in a fiscal year. Therefore, I cannot agree with this, and with my colleague, I agree that more funding should be given in education. But dear colleagues and other colleagues, the Croatian government does so year after year. Here is counterpart Huška said how much the Croatian government has increased in the past period unlike some other government investments in education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15688	And in the name of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15689	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's what to say at the end. This is a six-month reckoning. The SDP club's intensity during both this accounting and the budget rebalance when we had it in the sixth month on the agenda was to put Croatian citizens first. And not only during these discussions, but also during the proposals we made during the first half, you will remember all the proposals for changes in the tax system, redundancies of salaries, increases in salaries for Croatian citizens. Thus, in terms of this debate and budget rebalancing in the sixth month, it was the idea to see what we can do in the next six months to help, to help the minister and his team with a proposal that the situation for Croatian citizens would be better. Unfortunately, the feeling is that the situation in Croatia is not good now. Inflation's in effect. Croatian citizens are making less real money than they have earned over the past months and years, real wages are falling, and unfortunately, every day they can buy less and less for what they earn. Therefore, unfortunately, we cannot support it as we did not support budget rebalancing. We cannot support this calculation because we believe it is not fair,... it is not fair for Croatian citizens through VAT to pay the costs of a state that could reduce these costs and direct them to the greater benefit of Croatian citizens. It is not fair that Croatian citizens in this year will pay 4 billion kuna more VAT through the price of all products, services, and most of all through the price of fuel that, as we had a debate the other day in the Assembly, unfortunately as the price on the world market changes, it does not fall. So in the end, here again Croatian citizens will bear the greatest burden, and life in Croatia will be getting worse every day. And that, of course, we can't get away from that finding, but it's no use. By the end of the year, we will again announce the SDP club's initiatives to improve the standard of Croatian citizens. I hope so, and the minister has given and given his hand if the proposals are good, and the ruling coalition will also support the proposals that the SDP will send to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15690	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Ivan Schuker, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15691	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just have a few comments on the debate because you can't only talk about one side, and then go back to the other and then when you agree to agree to it consistently, then you would see either you would have a 15% deficit or you would have to increase o-ho-ho tax revenues. But it's a rhetorical thing and I accept it. So let me still give some indicators that, we can either get along politically or disagree, but they still point to some trends that aren't great, but they're good. On the other hand, when we talk about inflation, then we need to know that inflation has some kind of initial capsule that drives it, it has an extremely important factor is psychological and talk to all the experts who deal with inflation, you'll see that psychological moment after that initial part of the most important. Why am I talking? Because at the end of last year, just for political reasons, they started bidding on that inflation. The inspections in the 7th month have made it clear that some have unfairly raised prices. On the other hand, if you give someone a subsidy for something so they don't increase the price of something, it can't happen that in the spring it raises 20%. So, this is all the consequences of certain events, but when we talk about Croatia and when we want to compare it with other countries, let us never mind that unlike the other 27 countries, Croatia has the costs of rebuilding and making direct, which indirect cost of war somewhere around 8.9 billion kuna. And if we were to exclude these 8.9 billion kuna from the expenditure side of the budget, then we would have 5 billion surpluses and then we could talk about whether we would turn it into an increase in certain social rights, make a reduction in the contribution and thus increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, so we could talk about a number of topics. I don't want to ask for an apology for something, but if we want to compare two things, then we have to bring them down to the same level so we can compare them. The other thing, I've been listening here over the last years of comparisons with Estonia, with Lithuania, they're great, they're like this, they're like this. Today both Latvia and Lithuania and Estonia are far worse off than Croatia. They have a far greater external responsibility, they have far greater inflation. So let's not do it when we're doing a little bit like this, but also when we say what indicators are that some things are getting good or bad, it's an increase in employment or a reduction in unemployment, and you combine the state of employment at the end of 2003 and how many there are today and when you combine the number of unemployed, then you'll see that we have almost 100 thousand less unemployed and 150 thousand more employees. Now, if the truth about the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia is yours, then I don't know who these people are working with. The second thing, you said on behalf of the club several times today that it is necessary to encourage development, to encourage production, etc., and on the other hand you criticize when entrepreneurs are in charge of production and production. No one approves of borrowing for consumption, but when you talk about external debt, then you can't say the debt of the state is that big, and then external debts totaling 35 billion euros. You should also say how much the share of the state has fallen in external debt or so that the deficit remains at the level that we inherited from 6.2%, how much would that public debt be today? Because public debt and deficit can be financed exclusively from either borrowing or privatisation revenues. And when we talk about privatisation, tell me what greater privatisation revenue this government has made compared to how the former governments did. Practically none, except we gave Croatian citizens the most valuable Croatian companies the opportunity to buy it. And what I'd like to say in the end is, I'm glad to see my colleague Maras when he was talking here that he was using the materials of the Ministry of Finance, if anything else... They served you quality for discussion, you looked at certain things in other eyes, but I unfortunately did that while I was a parliamentary representative I couldn't use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simply these materials were such that they could not be used, yet we have one step on that side. Well, the Chamber of Commerce, come on. And when we talk about reduced costs, let's just say, you said quite patheticly here that Croatian citizens will pay so much and so much more VAT. Well, when you said so, then it would be correct if you said that most of it went into health care recovery, and that health care is primarily due to Croatian citizens, so let's not say that when it comes to talking to us, more will come from Croatian citizens, and when these money returns directly to Croatian citizens, we ignore it. Therefore, you should always look at the left and the right, and when we talk about the level of certain tax rates, then the expenditure side of the budget defines tax policy. If you're not going to have a major deficit, then it's clear what you need, this government hasn't raised a single tax in five years, but it has reduced some taxes. But in any case thank you very much for the debate and I accept your proposal as you have accepted mine to do certain things if they are of quality to support each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15692	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 6th, Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 for the first half of 2008. The debate is concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies. I am voting on the following conclusion: the 2008 State budget report for the Republic of Croatia is accepted for the first half of 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes; 73 votes for, 3 abstentions and 25 against the adopted report on the implementation of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the Law on Attorneyship in a second reading. The Law on Attorneyship regulates the structure and operation of the lawyers and was adopted in 1994. One of the essential reasons for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union and, in particular, with the provisions of the Directive of March 1977 and of the Directive of February 1998 which relate exclusively to the possibility of providing cross-border services and the position of lawyers from the Member States of the European Union. In order to comply with the European Union directives, the proposal for a law was also submitted to the European Commission, which gave a positive opinion and proposals for certain provisions on the regulation of the legal status of foreign lawyers to be processed in their statement. The final draft law differs from the draft law which passed the first reading precisely in the part of the alignment with the European Union directives, and on the basis of the European Commission’s observations, and in particular in relation to the way and the jurisdiction to adopt tariffs in accordance with the proposals of the MPs. Under the current Law on Attorneyship, foreign lawyers cannot carry out legal activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but may, with exception, only represent them in arbitration proceedings. This Proposal would allow foreign lawyers to carry out their lawyership in the Republic of Croatia in the way it is arranged in neighbouring Member States of the European Union. A foreign lawyer who has obtained the right to make a lawyer’s call in the home country may, in accordance with the conditions prescribed by this law in the Republic of Croatia, make a lawyer’s call, a lawyer’s call called interest from his home country and a lawyer’s office. The State of origin shall be deemed to be the State where the lawyer has the right to make a lawyer’s call as an occupation under the rules of that State. For lawyers who will make a lawyer’s appeal, the examination of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed under the legal examination programme prescribed by special law. The Law on Judicial Exercises and the Judicial Exam provides that the Minister of Justice will lay down a judicial examination programme, and this Regulation will also prescribe the programme under which the examination for the knowledge of the legal order for foreign lawyers will be carried out. Lawyers who will make a lawyer’s call under the name of occupation from their home country do not have the obligation to pass exams from the knowledge of the legal order because the ability to make calls and to know the legal order prove in practice during at least three years of regular and successful work, which is a condition for enrolment in the register of Croatian bar attorneys. It was also worth harmonising this law with Article 49. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements so that foreign law firms in the Republic of Croatia can establish their branches that can provide legal services that include consulting services on the law of their home country, on the law of the European Union and on international law. The provisions of this law relating to the status of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia will apply once the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. In addition to the amendments and additions to this law relating to the exercise of the legal profession of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, the following amendments and additions are also proposed: A law firm can now be established only as a public company, this proposal proposes that changes of the law can also be established as a limited liability company and is defined as the minimum amount of underlying capital of 350 thousand kuna. In order to protect the parties from the danger of the occurrence of damage in the midst of an error, negligence, failure or negligence in the work of a lawyer, provisions relating to liability insurance, which is required by a lawyer, or a law firm, to be concluded with an insurance company shall be proposed. At the conclusion of that contract, not the conclusion of a contract constitutes a serious violation of the attorney's duty. So far, there has been no sanctions unless the lawyer has secured himself from responsibility. In order to introduce full order and discipline in the work of a lawyer, it is proposed that the responsibility of a lawyer be served in such a way that as a disciplinary measure, a lawyer can permanently lose the right to exercise his attorneyship, and it is also proposed that the deadlines become obsolete due to a serious violation of his duties and the reputation of a two-year lawyer extends to four years. An extremely important issue on which special attention has been paid at the first reading of the proposal in this Croatian Parliament is the legal tariff and who is responsible for its adoption. In the current law, the provision of Article 18 provides for a lawyer's tariff to be adopted independently by the Croatian Bar of Law. In view of the public debates relating to the level of the bar tariff and the way it was applied, i.e. the bill of the lawyer's award in the draft of this law, it was proposed in the first reading that the legal tariff should be brought by the Croatian Bar Association with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. In particular, in the parliamentary debate, it was pointed out that given the high rewards of lawyers, citizens have often been denied access to court and the protection of their rights, rights and interests. The proposals were therefore put forward to determine the level of the lawyer's prize in line with social and economic opportunities and the payment possibility of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, respecting the principle of equality between providers and recipients of services. As regards the jurisdiction to adopt tariffs in the debate, the arguments are made that the decision given in the proposal for this law should be amended. In the debate, the proposals for this proposal to be changed and for the tariff to be passed by a Croatian bar of attorney, with the agreement of the Minister of Justice who is obliged to take care of social and economic opportunities or to be prescribed by law. Discussing and respecting the proposals tabled in the final proposal for this law, it is proposed that the legal tariff be passed by the Croatian Bar of Law with the agreement of the Minister of Justice. When giving consent, the Minister of Justice is obliged to take care of social and economic opportunities and equality in the position of the recipient of the service provider, given their inequality in the expertise in this area. The Proposer considers that this is exactly the kind of expression that is very important because it determines that the Minister of Justice in granting tariff consent is obliged to take care of the protection of social and economic interests rather than to leave the tariff and its height to the Attorney's Office as a professional association. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's representatives. This is briefly about the final bill of law, the amendments and the additions to the law on attorneyship. Thank you. on the final draft law, amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15696	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15697	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished Madam Minister with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship and, of course, all those institutes that are incorporated into this final bill, and the result is the debate on this bill in this House, given the regular parliamentary procedure, in terms of the adoption of the legislation itself. It should also be pointed out that one of the reasons, i.e. one of the most important reasons for the adoption of this law, is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. In particular, within the framework of negotiations with the European Union or the negotiating process, the right of establishment and freedom to provide services is an area within which two very important areas of great importance should be legally defined, both in terms of the position of attorneyship in the European Union and also in terms of cross-border provision of legal services. It is therefore very sensitive legal issues, on the one hand, a certain constitutional law norm which defines attorneyship as an independent and independent service which provides legal assistance to any legal aid and a special law governing the establishment and operation of a lawyership as an independent service which ensures legal assistance to natural and legal persons in the exercise and protection of their rights and legal interests. According to the current law, therefore, the Law on Attorneyship of Foreign Lawyers cannot or does not have legal conditions, legal opportunities to carry out legal activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and by this law or, more specifically, all legal provisions relating to the status of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia will be applied once the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, so in this sense, this regulation allows or provides a legal basis for that to happen. It should be pointed out under the current law, therefore under the law that the right to exercise attorneyship is obtained by enrolment in the register of lawyers being held at the Croatian bar, and the example of how interesting one of the conditions for enrolment in Croatia is, therefore, in the register of a lawyer who is headed to the Croatian bar is Croatian citizenship. Therefore, the amendments in question and the additions to the laws and to the foreign lawyers would allow lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, of course, following compliance with the law of the prescribed conditions. The entry into the directory of foreign lawyers at the Croatian bar of law, I think, both at this time and in support of this legislative proposal, should be highlighted as follows. Therefore, both the business and the health capacity, that the person is not under investigation, that it is not subject to criminal proceedings for the purposes of criminal acts conducted under official duty, that it is worthy of the conduct of a lawyership, that he does not carry out any tasks incompatible with the lawyer's office, that he has a professional liability insurance contract, that he has the space and equipment necessary to carry out his legal activity and, of course, to pass the examination from the knowledge of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia under the justice examination programme or one segment of the part of the judicial examination itself. Let me refer to three issues that were either a taste or a taste of our debates or which in the debates in this Viskom House in the public opinion, perhaps the biggest debates, controversy, made the most different proposals, and certainly the first topic or first set of problems was related to the legal tariff or regulation, the way in which the lawyer tariff was determined, so here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, and this time it should be pointed out that these new legal solutions should be absolutely supported because they are in the final line and the result of these discussions and the professional public and debates in the Croatian Assembly. Therefore, it is certain that lawyers have the right to receive a reward for their work and also to pay the costs in connection with their work done, and all in accordance with the tariff which determines and delivers, I repeat, determine and bring the chamber and now a solution has been accepted with the agreement of the Minister of Justice. However, when giving consent, the Minister of Justice shall take into account the protection of social and economic interests and equality in the position of the recipient and the service provider, given their inequality in the expertise they have. Therefore, the entire procedure for adopting and adopting the legal tariff would take place according to the following procedure. First, the Croatian Bar is required to bring within three months of the date of entry into force of this law a tariff on awards and fees for the work of lawyers and to deliver it to the Ministry of Justice for consent. Secondly, before granting a tariff consent, the Minister of Justice will first request the opinion of the Economic Social Council and will take care of the protection of social and economic interests and inequalities in the position of recipients and service providers. And now the question arises what happens in the situation where the Minister of Justice, in a given sense, does not give consent to tariffs, in that situation, the Chamber of Lawyers is obliged to make a new proposal for a tariff which is in line with the objections and recommendations and to submit such a proposal to the Minister of Justice, and in the case or situation where the Croatian Bar of Lawyers does not meet within the time limits set by this law and does not provide a harmonised tariff for the Minister of Justice will bring a provisional tariff on awards and fees for the work of lawyers. This is exactly how this institute and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community really supported it as such. The second set of issues we discussed and held discussions, in terms of first reading in this legislative proposal, referred to both insurance or one insurance segment and the conditions for enrolment in the lawyer's directory. As regards insurance, very briefly, therefore, in order to protect the parties from the risk of damage due to error, negligence, failure or negligence in the work of the lawyer, the minimum amount secured in the event of an insurance event, and the obligation for each lawyer, founder of a limited liability law firm, to be secured at a minimum amount of 9 million kuna. Furthermore, in addition, as additional conditions for enrolment in the register of lawyers, the obligation to enter into an insurance contract shall also be laid down for the purpose of carrying out the attorney’s service. It is also up to the lawyer to make a statement that there is equipment and space needed and suitable to carry out the attorney's service. I point this out as a very important novelty as a new lawyer, he is obliged to pass the exam from knowing lawyer's ethics and tariffs on rewards and fees for the work of a lawyer. It is also important to point out that the Croatian Bar of Law is subject to the regulation to be governed, so it is independent to adopt a rule governing the passing of exams, the knowledge of the Code of Law and the tariffs on awards and the cost of the work of lawyers. I note that only the nationality of the Member States of the European Union or other States of the signatories of the Agreement on European Economic Area in the course of enrolment in the register of lawyers in the Republic of Croatia is equal in this respect to the rights and obligations with Croatian citizenship and it is also important to note that the amendment which took place in relation to Article 60, which was prescribed that a solution relating to the acquisition of the peace and suspension and the loss of the right to attorneyship in what way and in which way the rights of a lawyer who, in that sense, has the possibility to declare the right of appeal and, of course, prescribed by his appeal, to resolve all these rights and obligations, as such, regulated by this regulation. I conclude that here is after the regular procedure, after a truly professional debate and discussion of our parliamentary representatives in this House about all these important institutes followed the Final Proposal of the Law on Lawyership which is very quality and has quality solutions and, in that sense, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community of course supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15698	Thank you. Individually, Mr. Representative Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15699	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before I refer to the differences between the final draft of the Law on Amendments and the additions of the Law on Attorneyship and the Bill of Law, I would like to emphasise once again the importance of these amendments and additions. The fundamental reason for amending and supplementing the law is seen in the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, but also the need to adapt some of its provisions to time, as the same law has not changed since 1994 with the opinions of the professional and other public. All we can think of is the initiative of associations in terms of different tariff norms and fees for the work of lawyers, but also the disfavor of citizens to have some practice of lawyers with regard to the accounting of bar fees. Under the applicable provisions of the law, foreign lawyers could not carry out legal activity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia except in arbitration proceedings. In the context of negotiations with the European Union, the Republic of Croatia should adapt to the directives relating to the attorney's office. Valuing the need to comply with the regulations of the European Union, taking into account that this law has not been amended for a number of years, evaluating the proposals and observations made by the representatives and the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the proposed list has been adopted and incorporated into the final draft of the law. The remarks mainly referred to the current account of rewards for the work of a lawyer who was offended by the opinion that the prizes were too high, and that they are accounted for for by any procedural shop that the lawyer performs. It is also proposed that the tariff be brought by the Croatian bar of attorney to the agreement of the minister of justice, taking care of social and economic opportunities. I am pleased that the applicant accepted the proposed proposals and amended the proposed Article 3 in such a way that they are in agreement with the tariff, that the Minister of Justice is taking care of the protection of social and economic interests, equality in the position of recipients and service providers. We also know that EU Member States also leave the issue of legal tariffs to each Member State. It is pointed out that, according to the European Union report in most Member States, benefits for professional associations are negotiated freely between service providers and content but should also be stressed by the European Commission's view that regulatory measures by the State are necessary to carry out effective supervision of the work of professional services, as well as the protection of the freedom of competition, since it is of broader interest. According to the existing regulations, the Croatian bar of attorneys shall bring a legal tariff, and shall also constitute an association of lawyers applying the tariff and charging fees and rewards for their work. We are witnessing dissatisfaction with the part of the public and citizens, individual cases of violation of the tariff system are known, and in the complaints of the parties are again being decided within the body of the Croatian Bar of Law and the possible action of an independent body. I also believe that an important change is proposed in Article 36h, which prescribes that Croatian law enforcement authorities register and delete from the registers the reasons for such decisions. In view of the forward as well as the fact that the proposal has been made, I would like to say all the proposals and remarks made in the first reading of the law, and I am sure that they will consider and accept the good proposals and remarks of the parliamentary committees as well as those presented in this debate, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15700	Thank you. Finally, Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15701	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for the debate and for supporting the adoption of this law, which is why we have absorbed another law so as to say a European law which fulfils the obligation of the Chapter of the freedom of movement of capital and services, but certainly also provisions on regulation in part of the legal tariffs, as well as the system of free legal aid already passed, we will contribute to the fact that no Croatian citizen is denied access to the court for reasons that it cannot bear the costs of the proceedings. The amendments of the Legislative Committee are fully accepted which are mostly nomotechnical and expressive nature and bring improvements and in the section in which they speak about clarifying the conditions for the entry of foreign lawyers, so the amendment of the Legislative Committee is fully accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-24-0.u15702	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide and vote when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, we will conclude today's session and announce that tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. we will begin with the point of the Proposed Law on Private Detectives. So 9:30. Good-bye and good-bye, everyone. Seven, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship. This is a second reading, P.Z.E. Number 46. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The applicant's representative accepted and conveniently discussed these amendments and did not need to be voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes; 95 votes for, 3 abstentions and 2 against the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship.
