ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4849	Mr. President, I'm raising my hand to address you...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4850	No, not just you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4851	No, I don't raise my hand to address you as a representative of the club since it's been announced that the first statute for agencies is going, and now we don't have a proposal for a second point here and I see that the principal has shown up, so I suggest we go back.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4852	Did he show up, I agree that's a little bit, because we said we'd go in line. So the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency, confirmation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4853	Is there someone from the government to defend him?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4854	So let's go as the representative suggested, go back to the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency. - Statute of the Electronic Media Agency - Confirmation pursuant to Article 58. The Law on Electronic Media, the Council of Electronic Media, has delivered the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency for Confirmation. The statute of the Agency, the new text because it came back and it was being repaired, you got into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. If he wants a representative if he has one, he doesn't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4855	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 2nd session held on 11 March 2008 the Statute of the Agency for Electronic Media, which was submitted by the Council for Electronic Media to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 28 February 2008. The Committee discussed the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency as a home working body. At the time of the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 6 March 2008, on that statute. In the opening statement of the Deputy Director of the Agency, he explained that the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media in July of last year was established by the Agency for Electronic Media. There is a Council for Electronic Media which manages the Agency, and the Agency needs to provide technical assistance to the Council. The Committee held that the above amendment to the Electronic Media Act did not take into account the fact that there could be a overlap between the powers of the Council and the Agency, which is also evident in the fact that the President of the Electronic Media Council and its Deputy Director, the Agency and its Deputy Director. It is also unclear that the status of members of the Council appointed by the Council may be resolved if they do not attend meetings for more than six months, i.e. they become some complicity of the members of the Council by violating their duties. It has been concluded that there is no clear line of co-ordination between the Agency and the Council's section and that this should be corrected by the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media which will be in line with the European Union Directive. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously with 11 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following. First, it is supported by a decision to confirm the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency. Secondly, it is called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media which will be brought into line with the European Union Directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4856	Thank you very much. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Zoran Šikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4857	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will note that the legal person for the adoption of the Statute is contained in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media of July 2007 establishing the Agency for Electronic Media as an independent and independent legal person with public powers. It is important to stress that, for the staff of the Agency, provisions on the avoidance of conflicts of interest are laid down in the statutes of employment so that persons employed in the professional services of the Agency cannot be members of the Management Board or of the Supervisory Boards and of the Boards of Directors or members of any other form of association of legal or natural persons who may question their impartiality in the performance of the work. The bodies of the Agency shall be directors of the Council for Electronic Media. That's also a fact. The statute provides that the agency submits an annual work report to the Croatian Parliament. The conclusion of the Committee in terms of amendments and amendments to the law is on the trail and obligations of meaning in relation to the directive adopted last year at the 12th month, where they are, where there is an obligation to comply with that Directive within two years. However, no country has yet implemented this harmonisation. The first meeting of the Contact Committee was announced for April, and the second meeting for June this year, where we expect guidance and experience in how this harmonisation will be carried out. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4858	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The HDZ club Mr. Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4859	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Here are a few words about the Statute of the Agency for Electronic Media, several basic features relating to the organisational structure of the Agency, the way the agency is managed, the financing mechanisms, and a few words about the basic tasks of this one, I would say important institutions. Article 1 states that the Statute regulates the name and head office and the internal structure and mode of work, as well as other issues relevant to work, and in particular the activity, management and way of financing the Agency for Electronic Media. The Agency shall be an independent and independent legal person with public authority registered in the Court of Justice of the Commercial Court of Zagreb, as set out in Article 2. The Agency’s activities shall be carried out by the Agency in accordance with Article 7. The Agency shall carry out administrative, professional and technical tasks for the Council for Electronic Media and other professional activities within the scope of the work cycle and the competence of certain Law on Electronic Media. The Agency is therefore a form of professional support to the functioning and work of the Council. Keep going. The Agency shall be managed by the Director and, as stated in Article 8, the Director of the Agency shall also be the President of the Council and there shall be this dualism which shall be important to highlight. The head of the agency is doing the following jobs, something more said about them. A way of managing the agency. The Agency shall be managed by the Council for Electronic Media and shall be empowered by the Administrative Board in its work within the meaning of the Law on Institutions. The Council shall consist of seven members, one of whom shall be the President of the Council, who shall also be the Director of the Agency. Members of the Council shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Council shall carry out the following tasks and shall be the key tasks and responsibilities of the Council and the Agency as a whole. First, it implements the concession procedure. So it's about the regulatory body, awarding concessions in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media and the special regulation. The Council shall adopt a Decision on the withdrawal of concessions in the cases provided for by the Electronic Media Act. As this works, we will hear in practice when the agency or council delivers its annual report to the Croatian Assembly. Keep going. The Council shall adopt sub-legislative acts under the Electronic Media Act. The Council shall ensure supervision of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Electronic Media Act and shall adopt an annual surveillance plan. monitoring. How and how effective the council and the agency are in accordance with the directives is a very interesting and important issue for the general public, but also for the debates in the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure of the Council shall be adopted on a proposal from the President of the Council. The Council shall carry out the tasks of international cooperation. He's working with foreign regulatory authorities. He manages the work of the agency and submits an annual report on his work to the Croatian Parliament. It's certainly an interesting topic, but it's just coming up on the agenda. A few words about funding the agency. Council working funds including funds for the salaries of council members shall be provided in accordance with the annual financial plan of 0.5% of the total gross income achieved by electronic media publishers in the previous year by radio and television. And in the end, I'd like to point out the following. The Council for Electronic Media, as it is said, shall monitor the software content of radio and television broadcasters, etc. monitoring. Monitoring determines if publishers respect the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, control the share of advertising in software content, distance between advertising blocks, share of their own production, share of Croatian audio-visual parts, share of European auto-visual parts, respect for the general principles prescribed by the law. It's final. The European Parliament and the Council of Europe Directive adopted on 3 October 1989 on quality, effective, public-interest and binding of the Council as well as the Agency Directive "Television without Borders" and the Council of Europe Directive adopted on 3 October 1989. What I particularly wish to emphasise, which is important in this Directive, and I believe and hope, when the annual report is delivered, that these components will be present in your analysis of how public television works, how commercial television or electronic media works. The main tasks as set out in Council directives are education, entertainment, information. These three components are very important in terms of the responsibility of electronic media to the public. And I hope and believe that through the monitoring process the council will evaluate that. to assess information, education and entertainment objectively and correctly. What I want to stress specifically is not controversial. The parties in the electronic media have enough, it's probably quality. I wouldn't want to comment on the information. But in any case, when it comes to such an important task and responsibility as regards education in a country that has almost 7%, only 7% of the highly educated that component of education and responsibilities of electronic media to contribute to the improvement of what is called lifelong education that does not have to be formal but can also be informal through the work of electronic media. It is an important task and we expect that you will certainly pay special attention to your monitoring, this component. What is the quality of this monitoring, in which the accuracy of all these parameters is assessed, and how important the political issue may be, but also technically, to see what quality of reliability these benchmarks are given, or those criteria, evaluations of the functionality of electronic media and their responsibilities in line with the expectations set out in Council Directives of Europe. In line with everything said, the HDZ Club will give full support to the confirmation of the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4860	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4861	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, representatives of the council or agency, colleagues and colleagues. The statute is no good, but it's not the worst thing that's wrong with the statutes. The worst part is that the statute can't be fixed. The Statute cannot be corrected because amendments to the Law on Electronic Media in which the Agency was established were adopted in July last year and those amendments of the law did not take any account of the relationship in which the new agency was coming to the Council for Electronic Media, which existed under the old provisions of the law. The proposal of this Statute certainly gave the Council, i.e. the Director of the Agency, because it is the same person. And this is the second attempt to bring such a statute to this House. On the first, the government had significant comments and was returned to work but in no other attempt, the applicants failed to submit any logical excess text. And it's not their fault. No one alive could write a logical statute on the basis of such provisions of the law. It's just an impossible mission. In fact, an agency was established to amend the law within which the council operates, so now there's no known subordination, who's the boss of whom. The members of the council are elected by the Assembly, they should be above that agency, which gives only professional and technical assistance to the Council. At the same time, however, the president of the council is the director of the agency. The vice-president of the council is at the same time the deputy director of the agency, so actually the one who is on the hierarchy ladder higher acts within the one organism that is subordinated to him. It would be about like this, as if the Government of the Republic of Croatia were acting within a single ministry, to itself a child body. So, one schizoid, incredibly silly situation. And now the prime minister would also be the minister of the ministry and the vice-president would also be the secretary of state in the ministry is the only solution that the amendments to the law had ever come up with to bring them together into one person. What can be born now, what complications? Well, look, at first glance, we can list a few of them and if we develop our imagination, I don't know where they'd come from. First of all, there is dualism between the position of the state official and these are elected members of the council, who are also employees of the agency, and therefore act as officials there together with others who still employ the agency there, so it is unknown. They're class officials and class are civil servants and tenants. For example, the Council brings up a work plan for this auxiliary service agency, then gives itself tasks because they are also the president of the council and gives himself the task as director of the Agency what to do and then again as president of the Council controls how he has done the task. So incredibly stupid. As a result, this Statute could not have been better, so under the Agency’s activities under Article 7 the Agency only states that the Agency is carrying out public tasks entrusted to it under the provisions of the Electronic Media Act. Second, that the Agency shall carry out administrative, professional and technical tasks for the Council for Electronic Media and other professional activities within the framework of the section and the jurisdiction of certain Law on Electronic Media. In the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency, only this writes about the activities of the Agency for Electronic Media, only that, literally nothing more but the statute of the greatest work of the council itself, the competent authority. If they didn't know how to handle it because it's really impossible to solve, I don't blame people a bit. It stands in Article 17 to the Council, what it does. It shall, on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, adopt the statutes of the Agency confirming the Assembly, and shall, on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, adopt an annual financial plan. Well, then, on a proposal from the President of the Council, he brings in an annual surveillance plan. But that director of the agency and the president of the council is one and the same person, by law, one and the same person. It then further states that other general acts are being adopted by the Director of the Agency or the President of the Council on a proposal from the Agency. People simply couldn't tell in this statute what the council's job is and what the agency's doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, who they're doing, who they're responsible for their work to. It would be logical for those doing technical and professional work to respond to officials. But how will he answer to the official when he is at the same time this official. All that was fixed. In the 11th month, we also heard from the representatives of the Government, a directive of the European Union was adopted. So it was possible to find out what the content of this directive is, and to prepare amendments to the laws on electronic media, and to finally comply with the legislation of the European Union, and then, on the basis of such a revised law, and not on the basis of these stupidities, which are written in the Law, to adopt a normal statute. No, look, we last changed the Law on Electronic Media at this session, this session. But this directive didn't get involved in this. Why not? Nobody knows! Well, I guess from the 11th month to today, there's been plenty of time for the government to find out. Here, yesterday we listened to the whole day, as the European Union is our goal, priority above priority, and it is difficult to find out in this priority about a directive of the European Union that was adopted at the 11th month. It's an impossible task for this government. So that it doesn't send us every hour of amendments to the law completely sucks, but to bring the law into line with the directives of the European Union that have been adopted, and then to adopt it and to make it possible for people to write their statutes on the basis of such a amended law. Like this, we have a bad law, it's first, we changed the law at this session, we haven't fixed it, it's second. Today we have to discuss the agency's statutes under bad law, that's third. Then by the end of the year, the law will be corrected, then the new statute of the agency will be passed. Five times we'll talk about one thing instead of doing it in one step. It was meant to be done in one step, but it should be done. First someone in the government needs to know that this directive is being adopted, then you should tell the government, listen, we're not going to go now with the amendments to the law to this third session, no matter what, let's fit those directives, so we're going to do it all at once, that would be a meaningful work plan. And this is pointless, this is being sent to the Parliament for what's on the table, first, without any order. What's left for us now? So that we're angry with the government, no use of it, clearly. What do we do now with the people of the agency, or the councils who sent this statute? Should we refuse this statute? Which maybe we should actually do. But they can't write better, they can't, and the legal deadline makes them send them to Parliament statutes. What do we do now, but accept that statute, he's no good, he doesn't solve anything, he's gonna have a hard time working on it, there's no telling who's who, who's who's there, who's aunt. And to charge the government to comply with this Law on Electronic Media with this unfortunate directive as soon as possible and to send it to the Parliament. This is also the conclusion of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. And it was unanimously adopted. He calls on the government to do what it was supposed to do and what the job was. But now we're specifically inviting her to do her job at last. So we hope that this proposal to conclude the parent committee will be voted here at the plenary session, so that, then, we warn the government to do what she does. And now, this is what we can do when we have to work with what we have, rather than accept this statute whatever it is and pray to God that something can be done in this statute at all. I doubt they'll be able to work too hard. Only by the skill of these people from the Council, or agencies, to somehow get to the day, to get to the day when the government finally sends meaningful amendments to the law and when we finally bring them into some kind of subordination relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4862	Thank you. We're crossing, we've got one correction to an incorrect quote. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4863	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Stazic has expressed a number of incorrect allegations in his presentation, but all of this from the perspective that everything is bad in this country. What I'm correcting, I quote, "The status isn't right.". The Statute is in line with the law, with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion on it. The second correction to the incorrect quote: "The law is not good.". The law that the Croatian Parliament passed in 2007 had in this year 2008. Amendments and additions to the European Commission's policies. Therefore, to establish, but not in this part of which Mr. Stazic speaks, but in something else. So, the law is good. And I'll refer to the rest of the allegations in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4864	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4865	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Agency for Electronic Media is an independent and independent legal person with public authority created, of course, the basis of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media and must also have its statute governing the establishment, mode of work and other issues necessary for orderly and normal functioning. And that's understandable and clear and that's okay. And that is why this Statute has to be confirmed because it has to work. And here's what I'd like to do is I'd like to have a couple of dypressions about what was on the Council for Electronic Media and here we are in the debate this morning. In fact, on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, that's what I meant, not the Council on Electronic Media, I'm sorry. I'll also look back on it, although I don't think other provisions of the Statute are important, though, but this detail does seem more important to me. Because the main body in this story is actually the Council for Electronic Media. And to whom, says this proposal: The Agency itself, the Agency only performs administrative and technical tasks. Furthermore, Article 11 of this proposal also states that the Agency is governed by the Administrative Council for Electronic Media, which has the powers of the Governing Council within the meaning of the Law on an Institution. Well, if I'm right. In the institutions of the Administrative Council, they are not actually a component of these institutions but are above the institution, managed by the institutions. I think there's a dissonance here, too. So here it turns out that the component controls the whole of one, controls the whole. Well, I don't think that's a very good idea. Of course, I have no doubt that this Statute was made in accordance with the law adopted in 2003 and the 2007 amendments, and I voted for these amendments. But maybe it's a chance to really reconsider this a little bit, and I'd say it like that, the wires say it so that the jurisdiction of certain bodies wouldn't be in conflict with any particular interest, not in conflict with jurisdiction, not in some contradiction. Here, I wanted to warn you about that just a little bit with what I'm saying again. The statute is in accordance with the law and should be accepted in order for the council and the agency themselves to function as best and as normal as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4866	Thank you. Replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4867	The statute is in accordance with the law. Well, of course it's in accordance with the law. It can't be any different. If it were not in accordance with the law, the Legislative Committee would have established it and already or the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have returned it. The statute is in accordance with the law, but the law is wrong. No matter what parliamentary majority adopted him in this House. And you, in your debate, are in fact implying that the law is wrong and you rightly say that the law invented a solution by which part of a whole is governed by a whole. And you said it very plasticly and well, very plastic and well. Therefore, the very sentence of the Statute is good because he rests on the law does not mean anything. He can't be good if he rests on a bad legal solution. If he rests on a bad legal solution with what is in accordance with such a law, such a solution is not right and that is what we need to understand. And not now defend yourself in a way and hear everything is fine, so it's all in accordance with the law, so listen, so that law passed by the Parliament and that's fine. It's not right. If it's not okay, it's not okay! If it's gonna have to be fixed, it's got to be fixed. I'm only asking why it hasn't improved by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4868	Mr. Nenadic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4869	A fellow Stazic in his replica didn't know me in God's sight what he was doing to me. I said the Statute is fine and the Statute is really fine, because it's in accordance with the law, and the law is passed if we're going to do it right in 2003. So when most were second option, your option and changes were made in 2007 when this option currently had a majority. I repeat it to Statu again is fine because it's in accordance with the law and it needs to be adopted because it has to work. And if there are certain remarks, here I have brought them myself to consider. Then it needs to be coordinated in the future, tuned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4870	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4871	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Director of the Electronic Media Agency, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. By adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media adopted by this House on 13 July 2007, which the Republic of Croatia coordinated this area of activity with the legal gains of the European Union. To remind myself, it is a directive on “television without borders”, the European Convention on Cross-border Television and the acts of the Council of Europe established the Agency for Electronic Media as an independent and independent legal person with public authority. The law states that the Agency is established to carry out administrative, professional and technical tasks for the Council of Electronic Media, as well as other professional activities within the scope of the section and the competence of certain Law on Electronic Media. The law also stipulates that the agency adopts a Statute confirming the Croatian Parliament. And it is now the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency adopted by the Council for Electronic Media, which was given a positive opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is required to confirm the Croatian Assembly on the subject of this debate. The Statute as a fundamental act of each legal person shall regulate the names and headquarters, internal organisation and mode of work, and other issues relevant to work, in particular the activity, management, official and business secrets, the public of work and the way of financing. The bodies of the Agency shall be the Director and the Council for Electronic Media. The Agency shall be managed by the Director, and the Director of the Agency shall be the President of the Council for Electronic Media. The Agency shall be managed by the Council for Electronic Media and shall be empowered by the Administrative Board in its work within the meaning of the Law on Institutions. As the dual functions in one person are mentioned here in the debates, we also discussed on the board, the parent board for media, information, information and media. After that, I took the right, i.e. the obligation to find out how it came to be the director of the agency as well as the President of the Council for Electronic Media, and I was told that, in the negotiations, the advice when it was in line with the legal gains of the European Union was precisely that the same person was also the President of the Council and the Director of the Agency, thus strengthening the independence of the Council for Electronic Media. It is the core task of the Electronic Media Council that that regulatory body for the electronic media area, which monitors and ensures the implementation of the Law on Electronic Media of the European Convention on Transboundary Television, implements the concession procedure in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media. Similarly, it shall take a decision to withdraw the concession, adopt sublegal acts under the Law on Electronic Media, promote self-regulation and co-regulation in order to implement the law, ensure supervision of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law and specific law, and adopt an annual monitoring or monitoring plan. It makes a decision on the allocation of funds of the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media and there is more, and everything in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media. The Statute also regulates, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, the conditions of appointment of members of the Council, the duration of their term of office, which has been arranged for five years, their resolution as well as the way of decision-making in the Council, the part-round council which I have already said something about and other issues relevant to the work of the Council. According to the Statute and the Law on Electronic Media, funds for the work of the Agency, including funds for the salaries of the Agency’s director and members of the Council, shall be provided in accordance with the annual financial plan of the Agency of 0.5% of the total annual gross income obtained by electronic media publishers during the previous year by radio and television activities. Unexploited funds become the revenue of the Pluralism Fund and the diversity of electronic media, which has also become the Agency's fund by amending and supplementing the law. And clearly we heard that, the statute stipulates that the agency submits an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on its work. For all the allegations highlighted in the debate on the home information, information and media committee of the deputy president of the Agency, he pointed out that the Agency for Electronic Media is functioning, and the Council for Electronic Media is performing its function in a smooth manner. I will repeat what I have already said, the statute is fully in line with the provisions of the law, and that is why the confirmation of this Statute as well as the positive opinion of the Government, so I will support the statutes, and I will pledge to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Media which is contained and in the conclusion of the Information Committee, be in line with the European Union Directive by 2009 at the latest, which is the deadline of the European Union given to the Republic of Croatia. What's this about? I think the Prime Minister has already said that the directive was adopted at the end of 2007 so the compliance obligation for the Republic of Croatia is at the end of 2009. The first meeting, I was told, of the Contact Committee, and the directive refers to audio visual activities, will be held in April of this year, and in June the second is clear from the guidelines for implementation of the directive. Since no member of the European Union has yet to comply with its legislation with this Directive, I think it is too much to ask the Croatian Government to bring the amendments and additions of the Electronic Media Act together as soon as possible. And once again, I will repeat my fellow Stazic and the others. The amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media discussed this House two weeks ago exactly according to the European Commission's instructions. If there were any mistakes that I could quote from my fellow Stazic in this law, I'm sure we'd be warned and that would already be the subject of these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4872	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4873	I'm afraid, my colleague, that you don't understand. You see, it's no problem that the president of the board and the director of the agency are one person. That's no problem if there was order in subordination. Like it's not a problem that the vice president of the government is the minister of some resor. No problem, one person, is also the Deputy Prime Minister of the Higher Body and Head of the Lower Body. The problem is if the entire government is said to be operating within one ministry. It's like saying there's one room, that the house is part of the room in that house. It's like saying that the ocean is part of some territorial sea. There's a problem. Here's the problem with logic, and that's why I'm saying it's impossible to make a decent, logical, normal statute. That's impossible. Because the subordination thing is upside down, and how are these poor people going to solve it now? Not at all. Neither you nor I, nor them, God's father can resolve it. The basic regulation must be amended. And the other thing you're saying, you're saying it's wrong, I guess someone would notice. Who's gonna notice? Well, the government is here to notice that. She's here for that, it's her job. Watch out when this statute and the government had objections, so now I'm saying this to make things right, so people have to work on that regulation tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. They have to make important decisions. They make concession decisions. Well, it doesn't matter. This isn't just a little bit of an understatement, so we're gonna let him go, so it doesn't matter. There's no one to warn. Now, I warn you, we are now warning that this will be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4874	Thank you. Answer Mrs. Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4875	Sir, you said I didn't understand. I may not understand because I was not in this House last year when amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media were adopted which contained that in one person and director and president of the Council for Electronic Media. I don't know why you didn't ask that then. And from your perspective that there's absolutely nothing wrong here, that there's no one to warn, so then the left side of this assembly should be warned about that, let me just quote. In the case of amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media adopted in July 2007, the European Commission had subsequent observations concerning the definition, etc. etc. What we discussed here two weeks ago. I stated that their position was that in one person, therefore the European Commission's request was to resolve both of these functions in one person and I am now asking you, and who should then point out the illogicality if the European Commission asked Croatia to forgive the statutes, or in law, in the law, and to resolve that. You've had your chance, I haven't, but therefore I'm taking this opportunity that I have now, to support this statute and the work of the Council for Electronic Media, or the Agency for Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4876	Thank you. Does the deputy director, Mr. Jure Ivancic, want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go, Deputy Director Mr. Jure Ivancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4877	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I am here as Vice-President of the Electronic Media Agency and I am pleased personally as my colleagues that this statute has caused so much attention to the representatives and I thank all of us who in any way contributed to your remarks, critical remarks and suggestions that this statute be better, especially to the parliamentary committees and their committees who have also contributed to us in this final text in this Statute. But let me say here at the very beginning that the discussions on this statute could actually divide into two levels. One level is actually related to the criticism of the Law on Electronic Media adopted on two occasions, the first time in 2003 and now this amended version. Since we as an agency and a council are not in charge of these issues, nor is this statute presupposed by the debate on the laws itself, I am merely taking the opportunity to say that the Law on Electronic Media is like law and regulations and norms that are specifically under the terms of Europe's surveillance, especially now that Croatia is on the path of European integration. And that these laws, which today suffer a lot of criticism from European competent authorities, are considered to be high-quality and can be based on them to act and bring sublegal acts or to form competent bodies in the power of electronic media. The dilemmas presented here on the duality of functions, the ability of the Agency to function and the Council on Electronic Media, possibly from a certain point of view, that there may be misunderstandings, conflicts of competence in practice. But we who work at the Council for Electronic Media, or now within the Agency, see clearly, and we can point out this, the provisions of the Statutes and the Law, that this is clearly separated and that the competence of the Council for Electronic Media as a Administrative Council has a function of the Administrative Council in an establishment called the Electronic Media Agency. In fact, Article 17, which is fully in line with the law, clearly defines the role of the Council itself, which is seen as an organisational, functional, central body and which, in the Agency itself, decides on the most important issues regarding the regulation in the field of electronic media. And if we look at that 17th article, it explicates and in a very clear way, almost in its 100th sense defines the powers of the council. Maybe yes, it's already one of the MPs and several times it's quoted these powers over and over again, I don't think there's any need to present it in particular right now. But here, just for the distinction. So, the Council of Electronic Media is a regulatory body. It regulates, regulates between other relationships in the field of electronic media. It means what he's doing with us, what TV is doing with us. And we've already mentioned this on committees, it's less to notice, partly competent and for electronic publications published via the Internet or possibly some other information and communication links. While the agency is, you could say service. As a matter of fact, it is. It's also defined as an imaginary role to be a technical subport. 'Cause look. When the Council was first established under the Law on Electronic Media in 2003, the first plan was normally the Council for Electronic Media. The Council was also scheduled to establish a professional service as its technical port. The development of the event and the development of the work itself after a few years, which has been functioning by the Council, has shown that such an organisation is insufficient for the council to fully have that technical subsport to perform its basic function. And that was the reason why this amendment of the law formed an agency that should carry out these tasks. Perhaps it is an illustration to mention that it is in countries that have moved before Croatia into this area of independent, regulatory bodies. Let's say one thing, there can be a comparison, even though it's seen by the number of residents and the number of electronic media, say one Germany, France, etc., and the services that we call ourselves now are the bodies, the services that count per hundred, I don't know how many employees and where there's a lot of work to do, which, given that I say that far ahead of them, has come to the agenda and started to deal with it that way and decide, while we still have to admit that we're only one step away from the beginning in this area. And that the role of the agency as a technical service will increasingly come to its position that in some sense, it will always be much more numerous, the number of unemployed and operational jobs busy, that perhaps in a later discussion, in the next one we have, it will be quite clear what it is that the agency is performing a technical transport for the council, which is a council which is an independent regulatory body within the Agency. One more thing I think we should clear up. This is a question of the identity of the person in one and the second position, at the position of the director of the agency and at the position of the President of the Council. As I recall, the first variant of the amendment and the addition of the law was to appoint the director of the agency to the government or any other body outside the council. Such a proposal concluded that this would not be good, since the powers of the president, the director of the agency, could, in some sense, have a significant impact on the independence of the Electronic Media Council as a regulatory body. And then a decision was adopted which is legally and here, legally, that the person who is the director of the agency as a legal person, and the agency as a legal person must have its own director, that this same person may also be the president of the council and thus achieve what is most important, that the Council for Electronic Media remains independent, that it is not in its work, in its work, or in its organisational, or functionally subordinated to a special executive authority. Here. I think with these few explanations, interventions, we've given answers to these dilemmas. If there are any more questions, we are happy to be in a position to give our answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4878	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. We move to the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency, attestation. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following Decision: The Statute of the Electronic Media Agency adopted by the Council on 16 October 2007 is hereby confirmed. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Against. Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This decision was taken with most votes, 125 for, 1 against and 2 abstentions. We have a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Information, Information and Media which reads: It is called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt, as soon as possible, amendments to the Law on Electronic Media which will be brought into line with the European Union Directive. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. This Statute was adopted unanimously with 128 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4881	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, let me say what is the basic intensity of the proposal for this law, which means the simplest thing is that it is currently trying to improve the standard of Croatian citizens. We are all aware that in Croatia inflation is operational, that since last year the growth of real net wages is only 0.5% and, according to economic developments in this year, the projection of economic and inflation growth is likely to be lower than they are today. Real growth is planned to go to 4.5% and inflation is over 5%, so next year Croatian citizens will probably or almost certainly be able to buy less goods, services for their salaries than they can at this time. What is the basic intensity of this law is that the current amendments to these laws or amendments to the Law on Obligations Contribution Law currently raises net salaries in the Republic of Croatia by 5.75% when viewed in percentages without burdening additional employers. And one more thing is very important that it basically means by the obligation of pension insurance not to reduce, so it doesn't go to the burden of our pensioners. How do you do that? You all know that contributions can be made with gross employees' salaries or employers pay contributions on the salary. In order to enable me to grow real net wages, 4% reduction is made from employees' salaries in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to reduce the contribution to compulsory pension insurance from 20% to 16% and, on the other hand, to transfer that part of the contribution to contributions to pay or to make the same amount that would burden additional contributions to pay a reduced contribution to health insurance. We think it's real at this point that it can be done. The fact is that reducing the contribution rate for basic health insurance would create certain things, so let's say the current deficit of around 4 billion kuna on the basis of this financial year, since otherwise the deficit is around 4.8 to 5 billion kuna, but as this financial year is already under 4 billion kunas by the end of the year. But we think it is realistic that this lack of funds can be compensated for certain redistributions in the state budget and by taxing additional taxes or from capital tax revenues. If we are aware that there is a major transport in Croatia that is not practically even touched in this part, we think that a step can be made to replace in some way this deficit that would be from the basis of the contribution to health insurance, which is in some way in line with some European standards where those citizens who achieve these incomes with these foundations and participate more in public spending, so as I said applying this law would currently increase the net salary of Croatian citizens by around 5.75% and about 300 kuna, respectively, which you will admit is not little when it is calculated on a yearly basis, it is about 4 thousand kunas which is twice as much as many of our citizens receive through regressions, goddesses, etc. I think that Croatia must in this way show concern for its citizens, or at the moment help them to live easier or to cope with the inflation that is now in Croatia at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4882	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4883	Thank you very much. At the 5th session of the Committee, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance provided by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In the debate followed by the board members, they pointed out that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure would reduce the income of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute by around 4 billion kuna by reducing the contribution rates for basic health insurance. In the opinion of the board members, this deficit as well as the deficit in compulsory pension insurance which could also arise could not be covered by the source proposed by the proposer, the increase in VAT revenue, the taxation of capital revenues and additional budget sources. Given the imminent increase in deficits in the health system up to half a year, with this estimated lack of funding from contributions to health insurance and given the real turnover on the Croatian Stock Exchange and possible funds from taxation of income on capital, it is clear that this deficit cannot be compensated in the proposed way and health as well as the pension system would remain suspended for its contribution. Therefore, after the debate, the committee members decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption the following conclusion: "The Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligatory Insurance Contributions in the text, as proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club, are not accepted.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4884	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Dear Secretary of State Ivica Mladneo.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4885	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act provides for a reduction of the health insurance contribution rate from 15% to 11%, which would also mean a deficit of around 4 billion kuna contributions by the end of the year, taking the remaining nine months. Otherwise, at the level of the year, it was about 5 billion kuna. As the state budget has already been adopted and this funding from health insurance contributions and under the law is financed by health needs and they are insufficient and must already be partially subsistled from other revenues. The reduction of salary contributions also automatically leads to an increase in net wages. The increase in net wages would create another additional problem, which is the share of net wages on average gross wages, and at the same time the net salary ratio towards the average pension and the alignment of pensions with net salaries. Which means there would be another increase in the burden in the state budget. It is also foreseen by the end of the year to bring the Mandatory Contribution Act into line, so the government also proposes to take into account this SDP Club proposal by the end of the year and therefore proposes not to accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4886	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4887	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives Club cannot support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance. And as it comes to particularly significant systems in our country, let me explain them separately, because when you mention health care and retirement then the concentration increases maximum. In fact, it proposes to reduce contributions to basic health insurance. So, as we heard from 15 to 11%. This is the contribution on salary, but I must mention that in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2008-2011 programme, the financial consolidation of the system and the creation of conditions for maintaining the system is being set as a fundamental objective. Of course, the examination of the measures states that it is necessary to maintain the current percentage of the allocation of contributions to health and therefore for the following reasons. To fully reconcile the obligations of HZZO and all health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Second, the priority is to provide funds to cover the obligations made by health institutions over 180 days of age. Ensure that leftover sickness and maternity benefits are paid, etc. Therefore, from the 2008 budget debate, it is clear that significant resources are missing. And here is the proposal for these changes, which states that there will be a deficit in the health system of 4 billion, and as we have heard, the incentivisation of these VAT funds, the taxation of capital revenues and other budget sources, which is unreal to expect as we have heard, and we discussed it on the Committee on Health and Social Care, because in this case certainly, on the basis that, of course, traffic on the market would have to be so large as 400 billion of some calculations say that it should be. So it is in any case unrealistic, so we are thinking that there is no simulation of a model that would simply, and experiment with such a significant area as health care would indeed be inadmissible because it is a system that requires continuity, which requires quality and availability and for these reasons, the HDZ Club cannot, of course, support this proposal. Second, as regards the contribution to pension insurance. So that's the one from the salary, from the salary that the colleague listed from 20% to 16th, etc., to 16%. The following must be said that significant efforts have been made recently to improve the material condition of the pensioners. Therefore, the implementation of the 1998 Constitutional Court Decision So we pay back the pensioners for what we're particularly proud of. Therefore, the compensation is under way, while under the Pension Supplement Act, the difference between old and new pensioners and the Government's 2008-2011 programme are also reduced, and further measures have been made to improve the material opportunities of pensioners, so it is necessary to mention here in any case the introduction of State aid for persons over 65 years. Further to create a legal framework in which the lowest pension for 25 years of internship was 1500 kuna. But, of course, the eternal issue of pension increases, average pensions and so on. Of course, all these measures will require additional financial efforts. If we only mention that for this year, the pension budget is provided with 33 billion points 74 million, and it is evident from the discussion on the Committee on Health and Social Care that there will be a shortage in that part. So I would say that there was no simulation in that part that would in some way document what the applicant is saying and for these reasons, of course, it is not with such a significant and important area as retirement experimentation would be irresponsible and, for these reasons, the HDZ Club cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4888	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4889	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's in this proposal that goes for our citizens in Croatia to have a higher salary. As you know, inflation is projected to be 4 and a half percent and these 300 kunas that we predict will come a long way to someone who has 1,500 kunas and I'm sorry that the ruling party and coalition partners have a certain sense of social injustice and to say social blindness. Because at this point close your eyes that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are having a hard time living and getting away with having no means. On the other hand, I am pleased that the secretary of state has admitted and the HDZ club that in two large funds, pension and health care, there will be a shortage even though we listened to the budget's reasoning that this is a balanced calculation that will enable the financing of the system. This shows that in both de facto systems there will be major disorders. When we talk about reducing contributions to health care, it is not about reducing rights, but about the government finding funds outside our salaries to cover health costs. Everywhere in the world, and in our environment, people who work stand out for their health insurance and they're solid, and they don't stand out at 100%. At this moment in Croatia, one and a half million... Funding 4.5 million insurance companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's nowhere in the world. At the same time, the budget, alimony in the health system, is about two to three percent. For example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, the budget aliminates more than 30% of resources in the health system. We with these 4 billion that would have been found outside of our salaries wouldn't have gotten to 10%. I ask you if we are still socially insensitive, if we are closing our eyes over our citizens living hard, living on the edge of existence, and this story about collecting about five packagings and everything else tells us that our citizens live badly. And that, the same thing that shows one social blindness and a government explanation why this bill cannot be accepted. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this would lead to a decline in the share of the average pension above the salary, which would further make it difficult to increase the level of pensions. Is the government against increasing pension levels? According to this, since any, system disorder would lead to an increase in pensions. Our pensioners live hard, my father and many of our parents live with 60 kuna a day. One pension increase of about 30 kuna is somewhere like a house. It's easy for us to get paid in the House the way we have it, it's hard for us to think about it. And I think there's a social blindness and social ineffectiveness in part. On the other hand, the health system, as a health system, can be financed and there is a legal basis for funding, there is Article 67. The Health Insurance Act, which says the government will cover the cost of health care of pensioners, defenders, socially endangered, socially endangered groups. Last year, in this article 67, 2.5% of the total budget for health care was also paid to the budget of the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. If we say that 30% should be paid from the state budget to the Croatian Health Insurance Office to support these funds. Then those funds would be far more and far more than the 4 billion kunas we suggest the government find outside of our salaries, beyond our means for pension insurance. ... still solidarity remains, solidarity remains with all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also the Government, or the ruling party should show social sensitivity rather than close its eyes and be blind and stick its head in the sand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the SDP Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4890	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4891	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Mrsic is, out of ignorance, what for the demagogue reasons said a lot of inaccuracy, I will indicate how far I get. First. By ruling, I quote, they have social blindness. Dear Mrsic, this Social Expensive Government has increased the budget of your government from 2000 to 2003 by more than 15%. Therefore, not that this government has blindness, this government has far-sightedness on social spending. Secondly, the state budget is balanced and there will be major disturbances in health and pension insurance. There will be no major disturbances, as pension health will require exactly as much money as is expected and as much as we know it has taken over the past years. And for that, as you heard in the Budget Report, the Government has a solution. And a third. This government has social blindness compared to pensioners. Well, as far as pensioners are concerned, this government has shown its greatest sense because it has paid back their debt back to '98 because it has increased pensions, increased the share of wages, and everything you know well, but you're deliberately untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4892	Thank you. Inaccurate, another incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4893	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Mrsic incorrectly stated that this government is against increasing pensions. Of course, this government has shown and made a significant effort to compensate the old, retired, retired. Furthermore, further measures to improve the status of pensioners are in the programme that I have listed. And for that reason, I believe this assumption is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4894	Thank you. And the third incorrect quote. Dear representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would also like to correct Mr. Mrsic's wrong quote, but in part, here, in fact, has been pointed out earlier by two Mr. MPs, on the subject of social blindness. Definitely, I am asking against the question, in addition to all the debts paid by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the past term to our pensioners, the area of the county, Sibenik-Kninska, that is, the area of my city of Sibenik, where the city of Sibenik, along with the intergenerational solidarity administration, the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and the intergenerational development of a series of projects as well as the introduction of a free transport in the town of Sibenik towards pensioners, I am asking whether it is called social blindness and head-to-sand?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4896	You can't ask a question!!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4897	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4898	Thank you. Club, on behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU, distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4899	Dear Mr Vice-President, the honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable promoters. Every initiative in this Croatian Parliament is welcome, and every initiative needs a positive atmosphere and accepts it. However, I must honestly tell you, colleagues and colleagues, that I have expected from one, one large party, a party that loves to say to myself that the main social democracy party in Croatia is a slightly stronger proposal, a slightly more serious proposal. Given that this proposal to me is spilling from hollow to empty. Namely, this proposal takes on one side and leaves the other side of health insurance open where and now at this point it is missing at an annual level of around 3 billion and is complemented by the funds of taxpayers throughout Croatia, and in this proposal instead of three in that part would be a gap of 7 billion kuna. We're also talking about a pension system that needs almost 31 billion at an annual level, costs 21 billion, let's say that somewhere around 7 to 8 billion are government obligations under special laws related to defenders, related to special harmonisations, etc. Therefore, the pension system is also complemented by some 3 billion taxpayers' funds, so what comes across the value added tax. Therefore, this is not a system that would lead to better functioning, i.e. this proposal does not contribute to better functioning of neither the pension system, nor the health system, but I say decentering these revenues by contributing from one side to the other, so it would formally remain the way it is, but it would be missing in the health system. Secondly, again for one party that likes to be called the Social Democracy Party in Croatia, it is not clear to me whether and how familiar you are with the experiences of others in European countries where approximately unions are organised, which represent social strength and their basic task is to fight for workers' rights, including, of course, in the first place, to fight for the wages of workers and the purchasing power of these salaries of workers. I have contacted many of them and, unlike many in Croatia, I was fortunate that during the war the door of the Western countries was open to me and I learned a lot from the experience of others and there is one rule with them. The higher the prices, the higher the wages we will demand in an organised interest conflict or in an organised interest dialogue. We are here trying to legally resolve the handicap of our institutions, hence the inaction and ineffectiveness of our institutions. So it's legitimate for the union to demand an increase in wages on every increase in prices and cost of life. With what? Collective contracts, gentlemen. The culture of collective bargaining in Croatia is almost at the lowest level. We're trying to raise salaries in an artificial way, and on the other hand, we're taking out taxpayers' funds and submerging that money to cover these new losses we didn't help the workers. We didn't help the workers. Workers will either fight organised into trade unions for their rights or the union should not, then let's give all politics, let politics be the master of life and death in this Croatia. I'm not for that kind of solution. Social dialogue must remain here in these areas, it must develop. It's not enough that he's just institutionalized, but he has to work systematically and develop. So one more thing, I don't know what happened now, but it seems to me that you just established a basic law in 2002, or a coalition government passed a basic law on mandatory insurance contributions that was revised in 2003. Prior to that, the health insurance obligations were 17%, paid by half the employer, and half the worker as well as contributions to the 20% pension insurance, paid by half by the worker, paid by the employer on the salary. This has also given all participants such distribution by 2002 the right to participate equally in social dialogue, therefore employers and workers and governments, because they have all been participated in both health and pension systems and, of course, in these other systems. Today we have a position to pay pension contributions to workers from their salaries, so formal employers would have nothing to discuss about the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in the pension system because they do not pay anything but a special contribution to protection at work, i.e. a special contribution to employment. On the other hand, workers would not have the right in the existing system to discuss anything about the health system because they do not participate in health insurance from zero kuna. And those are the facts. If we're building a social dialogue and we have to take care of those facts. We can't build a formal social dialogue, so that's not an invention of either this current government or those before I say so, so the system might be set up in the best sense, I don't want to get into it at all, but it was set up in 2002, and in this bill I didn't see enough arguments to say that system that was set up in 2002 is bad and we want to change it that way, and so it's going to work better. There's no guarantee that what's proposed will give more functionality, but it's undermining the political scene to the workers. It's kind of. An easy promise that pay increases can easily be made and that this is a proposal for a closed system. No, this system is open and is actually spilling from one side to the other and increasing the total costs of the state in interventions into the health system. Therefore, with no best will, with great understanding of the initiative and in any case one positive atmosphere according to any proposal that goes into function of the improvement, because this proposal will also turn some passions on, in any case it is welcome, but we cannot support this bill with the best will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4900	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4901	Well, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja didn't exactly say that there was a loss in the health care and pension care system because we said that here's the Secretary of State himself said there would be a loss in the system, in one and the other. Therefore, this finding that the system is operating without loss is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4902	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4903	It is not true that the Social Democracy's main party is turning from hollow to empty with this legal proposal. But it is true that the Croatian Party of Retired with its close co-operation with this Government during which the average pension fell below 40% of the average salary and is the lowest in Croatia's history so far, remained in one term.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4904	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4905	He said he expected a more serious proposal from the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, alluding that it might be an unserious proposal. This is a serious proposal how one-time, quick help can be given to those who at this time are the hardest workers and pensioners, but it is obvious that there is no hearing in the ruling coalition. Alluding to the need to do so first and foremost in order to achieve a lot of reforms, it seems to me that returning the ball to the opposition is not good. It seems to me that the reform is still in charge of the ruling coalition, which is in power at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4906	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4907	I may not quote correctly, but it comes down to the correction of the incorrect quote in that part of the exposition of colleagues of Hrelje where he says that we are actually taking up the space for unions that are supposed to fight for more wages at the time of inflation and price growth. However, that is incorrect. And the state that creates a framework for the development of the economy must do its part. If we all agree that we have too high a labour price, then the state must do something through legislative activity to reduce the labour price and in some way raise net wages. Therefore, it is incorrect that only trade unions should fight for high wages rather than the state or the legislative body must do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4908	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4909	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and koelge. Like this, a few more things to mention. Like my colleague Zgrebec just said earlier, it means who's in the social dialogue. It's employers, it's workers, but it's also a state. We must create a framework for making higher salaries easier for employees in Croatia. Who gives me these 4 billion kunas? Now the deficit in the state budget is mentioned. To whom does the 4 billion kuna go? Go to the employees. So, through salary, an increase in salary of 300 kuna goes to all employees in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the state helps all its citizens, both pensioners and those living on the salary and family members. Maybe this syntagma hollow is really too harsh what Mr. Hrelja said, the only thing that might be empty right now in Croatia are pockets of Croatian citizens, so this law would thus correct their situation. This bill of law is not inconclusive. We prepared him because we believe he's exaggerating. Thus, we have also made an amendment to the state budget this year, meaning that these funds are being secured, i.e. to rebalance the state budget. The state budget is, we've brought it, 115 billion kuna. Can the state more participate through the health system and thus help Croatian citizens? I think so. The lack of funding in the budget for the health system will be realised, already mentioned by someone, through redistribution within the state budget, through an increase in income from certain taxes. So if we give Croatian citizens 4 billion kunas they will probably spend that money, additional income will be made through consumption tax or value added tax, so it's not all so uniform. There will be money in the state budget somewhere and we will give it to Croatian citizens. As for the capital gains tax in Croatia last year, 66 billion kuna traffic has been achieved. Crobex's growth was 60%. Could we have helped in some way the state budget to make a part of that money that means Croatian citizens have earned. Of course, not those who have earned small amounts but those who have earned amounts are like one entrepreneur who sold the company for 2 billion kuna and did not pay any taxes. Could we have returned some of that money to the state budget for Croatian citizens? And that is why this law is thus socially and socially sensitive, and you must bear in mind that today's net salary in Croatia is 26.5% of European salary and that prices in Croatia are at 70% of European prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4910	Thank you. Two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4911	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, it is not true what you said is the only thing empty in Croatia that is the pockets of Croatian citizens. Compared to post-Communist countries that have not had war aggression like Croatia's pockets of Croatian citizens are full of both Czech residents and residents of Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. Therefore, you cannot say that the pockets are empty without comparing them with the situation in Croatia, with the path that has passed from the communist period to today and with the results. Second, it's incorrect that Crobex grew 60% and needed to be taken from it and helped by the citizens. Any capital gains that are taxed in countries that have just begun to develop their own equity trading system from shares to funds, etc. kills such a system, makes it impossible to trade shares and capital, reduces profits, reduces economic values, reduces all economic indicators. That is why there is no country that has introduced capital gains tax in the first years of financial market development, so neither will Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4912	Thank you. And the second correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4913	Well, I think the too many words have been used to make this bill socially sensitive. Of course, pension and health systems fall within the overall social system but for the pension and health system, it is essential to be fair, to give and respect, on the basis of investments, the right which man has earned through the payment of contributions over the years and to guarantee a certain health standard in health care for a certain payment of contributions. I think the justice of the system is before social sensitivity. For social sensitivity we still have systems in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4914	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4915	Thank you. When we talk about the very proposal of the law and only when we talk about what and how to move forward, let us remember citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have nothing to eat. Let's remember all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who work and don't pay, let's remember all those citizens who have 60 kuna a day to eat, for 60 kuna a day can't eat meat every day. Let us remember those of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia who work for minimum wage, so when they deploy all the funds they have, they don't exactly have to go to the movies every day without talking about theater or any other cultural needs. Therefore, these 300 kunas, which we predicted would increase wages for this, are not to drive luxury, but to allow our citizens of the Republic of Croatia to live more normally. It's also a little strange that a representative of the Retirement Party is against raising pensions. And when we talk about social care and when we talk about getting more into social care, in 2003, we singled out 0.72% of gross national income and a billion 438 million 235 thousand kuna in 2003. Since then, gross national income has increased. We've also increased our budget, so this year we've singled out a billion 621 thousand 540 kuna for social care, which is 0.64%. So we're singled out for social care less than we did in 2003, which then speaks against the fact that we've had the resources we've now put into social care, and that's how we justify that we're not socially blind. This confirms once again that we are. And that it should be considered how to allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia to live more politely. This is a short-term measure, a fire measure that goes in order for citizens to get those 300 kunas, and that our pensioners live better. So, and once again, naturally we don't expect most of us to support our proposal, but remember that people are smart. They remember the days when they had a hard time, and they remember those who wanted to help them, and they remember those who refused to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4916	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations and two replicas. The first incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4917	First of all, I don't think it's just a correction to an incorrect quote, but it's also incorrect to call me a representative of the Retirement Party. Dear colleague, I am a representative of the Croatian party of pensioners, a parliamentary party, and this is an important difference, and I spoke as a representative, on behalf of the HSLS club, HSU joint club. Secondly, it is an incorrect allegation that I am against raising my pensions because it is the only thing I have done for the last four years, so I am in favour of increasing and solving problems that you don't even exist for you. So, problems with the compensation of pensioners, etc. And yet this law does not touch the issue of pensioners but only guarantees that their rights remain and will remain in the same place. So that's really an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4918	Thank you. The second incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's incorrect that a colleague said that this government singles out less for social care every year. I'm not going to start since 2000, but I'm going to start with our government since 2004. For example, it's set aside for social care 2 billion and 600,000. However, in the 2008 budget, it is planned to allocate the funds of 3.2 billion kuna and 9.4% more than the year before. Retrograded every year for social care is more isolated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4920	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to make it right, several times a respected representative has claimed that this government is not socially sensitive. Citing, using demagogue and pathetic sentences and demagoggy, I can argue that this government and repaying debt to pensioners and all others, which it has done through the Ministry of Social Care in Croatia, has invested much more money than the former SDP government has invested. And I claim it's incorrect that this government is not socially sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4922	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, it seems to me, when you say, let's remember citizens who have nothing to eat. Not only do we remember them, but we watch them every day not only about five packagings but everywhere around us. Just a little bit when we get down from Mark's square downstairs, and we'll see the real situation in Croatia. But I have a feeling that somehow when we're talking about reading two different budgets. Only a few indications from fellow Mrsic if you have not met, that in this country disabled workers receive 270 kunas of disability, that in this country where you say that the government has allocated 15% more social expenditure, that personal invalids have not been raised since 2001, that how to explain that social benefits have not increased for ten years and more. So, I don't know, colleague Mrsic, now who's socially insensitive? We as proponents or a government that gives a budget and claims to have given more for the social, and that same social life is much, much worse than it has ever been. Please, can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4924	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4925	Your Honor, Madam Representative! Social insensitivity is something that is perception in the people and social sensitivity is not demagogy but are facts. If we singled out 0.72% for social care in 2003, and now we're saying 0.64% that's just saying that social sensitivity isn't something that's primarily in this budget. And speaking of a respected colleague, Croatia's pension party was a coalition partner and is now a coalition partner, and in 2003 21 billion or 10.95% of gross national income were allocated for pensions, and this year 2007. 26 billion 566 million which is 10.60% of gross national income. Therefore, it is the same separation as the boredom, and as seen by the fact that the share of pensions has fallen to 39%, and it appears to have a tendency to fall even more than 39% in the share of net wages. So when we talk about social insensitivity, we're not talking about demagogy, we're talking about facts and facts, and the facts and facts are right ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4926	I thank you, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4927	Dear Mr. Vice President, I think you are obliged to intervene under Article 209, because Mr. MP did not replicate to me, he replicated, to the lady, to the esteemed colleague Škulić, and I do not know why he mentioned me in his replica, to her asked question at all, and states certain non-accuracy which can be checked by visiting the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute website. So it's not allowed to deceive the public under replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4928	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4929	Excuse me.../The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4930	Next replica, the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, you've brought your debate down to one of the political stands as if the elections were in two weeks. And you remind us, but for this very reason I have raised a line to remind you when your party led Croatia. And I'll pay you a visit to how many workers you've disproved, how many bankruptcys you've filed, you've sent hundreds of companies into bankruptcy. But at the same time, you have abolished all rights to the workers. Don't let me count it for you. Remember, remember the police who had been here for months before the Parliament and protested that you had abolished their rights. But you've been very careful that by chance a clerk from this building wouldn't take their sandwich bag and the juice. I was part of it, and that's true, probably not what your colleagues told you. Also, as far as our defenders are concerned, remember what rights you have taken from them. And many of them were hungry. Remember the thousands of civil servants you've abolished and cut wages, dissipated that population. Remember, Mrsic and Mrsic, how violently you retired our officers and tenants in the Armed Forces. How many of them you sent home with nothing. Those people were hungry. And I don't know why you even gave this proposal. You may have been mistaken to remind us, but we haven't forgotten. You didn't get this one this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4932	Thank you. Answer, reply to the replica, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4933	Well, the esteemed colleague obviously didn't listen to me, because first of all, I didn't say a word about the defenders, I was talking about a group for which the state needs to aliminate funds for their health care that we know is not health care that's appropriate to them. As we know, the defenders are waiting six months for one CT head. So, I wasn't talking about lawyers, I wasn't even talking about officials. Officials, among other things, your party is suspending an internship fee, so here today they will have 20% less wages than they are. We want to give 300 kunas to more people, you're reducing them by 20%. On the other hand, I guess the Turks blame this country for something happening. Thus, the SDP of HDZ will always be responsible for what it is. And besides, your prime minister said yesterday, let's not talk about 2003, the fourth and fifth year, probably because you don't know what you're doing, so you don't know what you're going to do now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4934	Thank you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. And I'd like to pray that we stick to the topic that's on the agenda. Dear, we are moving forward with an individual debate, distinguished representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. I would, however, start my presentation a little differently and return to the topic, which is the subject, that is the bill's proposal, about amendments to the law on mandatory, supplementary insurance. First of all, I am truly, as a man, happy that the SDP wants and takes care of the workers, but the way he tried this, with these amendments and the additions of the law, it really doesn't fit one of the serious, biggest opposition parties in this House. Because if you want to present half the paper taking to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, 4% of the contributions or in the figures of 4 billion kuna, and my calculations that are for the whole year based on what the State budget in this House is for health care 22, almost 22 billion kuna for this year. If we cut that by 4%, it's going to be approximately 5.7 billion kuna a year. So to the health system, a health system that rests on two pillars in the Republic of Croatia, that is solidarity and availability and not so long ago, last week, remember that we also called a minimum fee that was administrative from 30 kuna, a tax on patients, we abolished it. And now you want to take 4 billion kunas to the health system in a year. And here I'm going to say, what we discussed in the adoption of the State budget that everything planned for health care in 22 billion is not intended for losses and is not a lack of money, but it is also clearly said by Minister Shuker, that recovery, financial consolidation of county hospitals is not included in this State budget. That's what we've all heard clearly. And now, if you take another 4 billion kuna to that delibiosis we have in health care, I ask you what would you of the Croatian citizens do? Health care would not be available to them and there would be no solidarity. And secondly, that the support from the State budget to health care is not, that it is less than 2%, I would remind the distinguished representative Mrsic, that in the past 4 years, the state is directly from the State budget and the hospital in Zabok, which costs 400 million kuna, that it has built KBC Rebro, it is not yet known how much it will cost. It is a project that started without clear financial calculations just as it is going into this project to reduce contributions to health insurance. Therefore, your claims that a German person is parcuting Germany's state budget by about 20%. Yes, but at the same time you forgot to say that every insurance company in Germany is extracting more than 20% in the health care system, more than 20% and every visit to the doctor, each going to the pharmacy costs the citizens. In the Republic of Croatia and thank God that thanks to the government that runs this country, the availability and solidarity of healthcare and the greatest possible health standard is available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And while the Croatian Democratic Union is leading this country, it will be, and that you are a serious political party, would 4 billion kunas missing from the health system say so we will get that out of VAT, from capital gains. Well, I thought you'd often say that you're a party of experts, top-notch know-it-alls. So you could do a statistical simulation of the model to how much VAT we're going to get, how much consumption of citizens, how much capital gain we're going to get, which is taxing capital gains. What do you expect this year? How much do we get? No, this is where you said 4 billion as if it were 400 kuna. I mean, I was really surprised that one serious party could do it. But she has a people's "paper takes it all" and I think it was obviously one proposal that someone remembered at your club and says why they wouldn't send it to the Parliament, and you're convinced that something like this can't really go away. And for that reason, the HDZ club can't support this personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4936	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4937	Well, my colleague Strikic had two incorrect allegations. One is that we want to take 4 billion kunas from health care. You don't take 4 billion kunas from health care. The budget remains what it is with the state being required if my colleague Strikic listened well to the state should aliminate it from other sources. That's what I'm saying is that the state needs to be alimony in the health system with at least 30%. Another incorrect claim is that in Croatia citizens do not single out, that in Germany they allocate 20% of health insurance funds from their pockets. I'd like my colleague to take a look at the World Bank document of the World Health Organization, which says there are car poker manny separations in Croatia. So, we're paying off the health system somewhere around 10%. Therefore, it is not true that Croatian citizens do not single out health care from their pockets. They set it up a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4938	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4939	So a fellow MP says this government has abolished the administrative fee. Well, she brought her in, and it's okay that she did. But I actually want to say something else in the replica. In fact, the government says not only does it not accept such a proposal because it does not know how to raise the missing funds for health insurance, but because it cannot accept one opposition proposal. But the government, in its opinion, says, among other things, that according to the action plan for the harmonisation of legislation and the creation of the necessary capacity for the adoption and implementation of the acquis of the European Union, it will amend the Law on Mandatory Contributions by the end of the year. And then they will have to do so so that it cannot be submitted in Croatia that only employees pay this tax because it is practically tax rather than contribution. On the other hand, it will also have to increase the share of the budget for this purpose. That it is possible to do this I will say for example from 2002 when we reduced the pension contribution by two percentage points. The same amount of health contributions, and pensions grew the most in that year. When in the same year or at the same time we increased 20% of the personal deduction and when we first introduced income tax reliefs to as much as 48000 kuna and nothing in the budget happened. The budget was such that all these reliefs that went hand in hand to employees and pensioners could be covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4940	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the honourable MP who really well concluded that we had imposed an administrative fee, and we, when the conditions for its existence ceased, had abolished it. And the second thing you're saying is that in 2000, you reduced your contribution to pension, but at the same time, the debt and interest that were in Zagreb bank was rescheduled by the government that came after you. Remember that the deficit of the state budget at the time when you did all this and what you were saying that you increased was far, far greater than it is today. And at the same time, you forgot to say that you've abolished the rights of the defender, that you've abolished the birth benefits and everything else you've done. Really don't pollemize about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4942	Thank you. Before we move further on to the debate one notice. 4th session of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction will be held today on 13 March at 14:00, Hall of Eugen Quaternika 233, II. Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have before us a typical bill that should cause political effects positive and financial effects negative. We're used to it on the left hand side of this assembly, so it's not hard to deny all the facts that were presented in one of these proposals. The proposal interferes with something that is most sensitive in the country. It's macro finance. Without knowing all the elements of macro-financials, what happened can happen at a time when the legislators of this law led this country. It's all true. They have made major changes resulting from the state budget deficit of 6.3%, according to the World Bank and IMF report, which has led the country to a crisis and it is fortunate that we have had the opportunity to reduce that deficit and come to today's deficit of slightly more than 2% and since zero percent. And the deficit of the state budget is the biggest burden for the economy for reasons we will not discuss now, but we will return to this bill. The promoter should have known that the state budget had several sources of income and very many items of expenditure. Incomes are taxes, they are divided into value added tax, income tax, profit tax, there are excise duties, there are customs duties etc., there are contributions we cannot discuss in detail. It's all the law of a coupled vessel together. That means if you touch one, the other will get hurt. In this law, the three vessels were broken, and the two were blocked and the results would be truly devastating and the state budget couldn't handle it. It is evident from the introduction and assessment of the situation in other countries that the employer did not have the necessary data because he compares the rates of contributions in Croatia for retirement and health to other countries, which is absolutely incomparable. I'll give you just a few examples. It says here, Austria stands out for pension 22.8 and for health 7.7. But there are still four major sources of income in that health care that the employer probably doesn't know about if he doesn't know some information. Or, for example, that ratio in Hungary is 26% pension, 15% health insurance, but in Hungary, 20% more of it is given out of the pocket, which is not the case in Croatia. And the information brought here that in Croatia a citizen pays 10% out of the pocket of health insurance is not correct. He pays out of the pocket for a system that's not in state security, it's a system of private offices and an institution that needs to fit into the state system and I believe it will soon be done, but it has nothing to do with the system of our state and county hospitals where the revenues are 99.5% from the state budget. Also, the fact that Slovenia has a lower single rate of 13.1% is not comparable because in Slovenia the resident or, more specifically, 96% of the population has additional insurance, so there is a new source for health insurance that does not exist in us. So these comparisons are completely inappropriate. I'm going to the bill. In this bill of law are actually mixed pots. There is a proposal, therefore, to reduce it by 4% to the employee's burden, and to switch to the employer. At the same time, 4% reduction in the separation of healthcare employers, which is taken from the state budget and capital gains. I won't be able to talk about retirement because of the limited amount of time and what it would bring in mandatory retirement and what that burden would mean for the employer, because we've given him a new charge and we haven't charged him as it says here on the other side, but I'm going to talk about health care. First, if you take 4% of the contribution rate, it's not less than 4 billion but 5 billion, because one rate is one billion 180 million kuna, one percent. So we're talking about 5 billion withdrawals from the Croatian Health Insurance Office. These 5 billion are recommended here to take part from the state budget, partly from capital gains. First, about the state budget. If we're taking from the state budget, then we always have to tell our colleagues who we're taking, including the amendments to the state budget, but also the laws. I agree to be taken from the state budget and to HZZO, but let the representatives of the Ministry of Finance say who they will take it from. I can take the pensioners, I can take the welfare, I can take the defenders, I can take the lights, I can take some of the council's representatives. But to whom it will not make up for 5 billion kuna a year only to completely take from several items and shut down several functions in the Croatian state. As far as capital gains are concerned, it's typically a lack of knowledge of the problem. It is said that the capital gain tax is going to give us this 5 billion, and we see that it is so much to get wet because it is not in the state budget, and it is not included in the budget from where those 5 billion capital gains are from. The first problem is that capital gains have really grown well over the past years from Crobex Index to beyond, but now because of the macro impact of the global global economic situation, primarily energy, wheat prices, etc. is in crisis as in the whole world, because it is also a law of connected vessels, Croatia is not isolated in the world economy. There comes a period when capital gains will be small or none, hence we will not be able to transfer these 5 billion from here and the patients will be left without medication, and the sisters and doctors will, of course, be left without pay because those 5 billion could not be compensated. But even if capital gains were to go back on the upstream line, how much would it have to be if 5 billion out of that get turned into health care, the calculation is extremely simple. In order for 5 billion capital gains to be taxed and taxed 5 billion, and the capital gain tax is 20%, so we have to have a capital gain 5 times that 5 billion, which is 25 billion. In order to have 25 billion capital gains, what must be the total profit? So if the profit is only 5% it has to be 20 times larger, 5 goes into 100 20 times. So we need to multiply these 25 billion by 20 to get 500 billion profit from which to get the capital gains of 25 billion, from which to get these 5 billion dollars for health care. And the total turnover of the capital market in Croatia from which to get 500 billion total traffic and the required profit of 25 billion will have somewhere maybe 80 or 100 years. So it's about wrong assumptions, wrong calculations, spilling not from hollow to empty I'd say, but from empty to empty with a result that would be disastrous for the health insurance system. The consequences would be the same as in 2002 when the same team reduced the health insurance contribution rates by 2%, did not substitute it from other sources and which was the result. HZZO had to be in debt to 2 billion and 700 million kunas in banks, commercial banks. We inherited that debt and returned not only that debt but also to the fat geese, which means we still paid a few dozen million kunas of interest to the banks, of course owned by foreigners. Therefore, such experiments on such a macro system are not serious, it is not correct, cheap political points can be obtained much cheaper than this law costs and what would cost and therefore should be drawn from at least two conclusions. First, when some of the laws enter into macro-financials, experts should be consulted which will fit into the entire complicated system of the state budget and, of course, all the funds relating first to health and pension insurance. The second lesson should be that, before applying such a request, a financial simulation should be made, a picture of that model on paper should be made, and it should say exactly how much the item of the budget gives, which item of tax or contribution falls or grows, and only then draw the line and say this can live or cannot live. This time it cannot live, and it is fortunate that there is a filter or obstacle to the adoption of such laws as the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I propose that the Parliament reject such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4944	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations, we have a replica, but above all, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. The first correction of the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4945	I'm correcting my colleague, Professor Hebrang, that in 2003, the deficit is 6.5% or 6.3. According to all official documents, all our statistical data, the National Bank's data, is 4.9. And only by that big, like the professor said, macro-financials in Shucker's method is 6.3. Or a political method that was never applied in Croatia, but according to Shuker's method in 2003. Even the IMF accepted that it was 4.9. That's so much so we know what that macrofinance means, it's political data. Therefore 4.9 is the budget deficit for 2003, according to a methodology that existed before 2003 and after 2003, even for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4946	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4947	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! So I would correct the incorrect allegations or there were many of them, but one would correct the concrete that Mr Hebrang said, that if this proposal were passed or not good, that it was a bad proposal and that the health care under quotes would fall apart in Croatia. I will correct this assumption and I would say that this bill is very good and would solve most of the health problems in this country. And you, Mr. Hebrang, have turned this debate completely in the direction that suits you. You've presented a series of incorrect allegations, but as far as I can tell, my colleagues will educate you once more and explain to you everything you've confused in your presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4948	Thank you. First, it was a correction, and this was to direct a debate about how it didn't work out for anyone. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4949	Dear fellow Hebrang made two incorrect allegations. The first is that in the Federal Republic, Germany is a different system and that in the Federal Republic of Germany, about 20% separate citizens. Our system is somewhat similar because citizens of the Republic of Croatia who cannot get a service in the health system are looking for a service from the state health system. And it is estimated that somewhere in Croatia there is a health market 26 billion kuna and that somewhere around 10% of the funds in that system are in our pockets. Thus, the fact that it is 10%, and perhaps because it is not available in Croatia until the end of the survey, and perhaps even more. The research that was done showed that 75% of households in Croatia have allocated funds for health care outside that health care guaranteed by the state. And on the other hand...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4950	Thank you. Time's up, thanks. And the final correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4951	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Andrija Hebrang's representative who said that Croatia was in crisis at the time of the coalition government because the country's deficit was over 6%. We just heard from counterpart Linic that he was below 5%. But what I want to point out is that despite this deficit, Croatia had a 5.2% economic growth in 2002, which was then the largest economic growth among all transition countries. Can a country that has such economic growth be called a crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4952	Thank you. Let's go. Now let's go to the replicas, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4953	Thank you very much. When fellow Hebrang talks about the effects of the coalition government, perhaps he should point out that it is the coalition government because we now have a coalition government in Croatia that is not, right? We saw that yesterday during a debate over ZERP. But I agree with him in part. I'm not as satisfied as he is with the effects of that coalition government. And I would remind him why I'm not satisfied? That's why we found the cemetery in 2000. The graves that Mr. Hebrang was partly responsible for because he was sitting in these governments. Let me remind you. Health care, and there was no "z" from health care, the system didn't work, no one was paying anyone, some weird equipment was being bought that never came into service. Let me remind you. During the time you were in power in Croatia, 500 thousand jobs were shut down. In five years after the war, you destroyed the Croatian economy with your privatisation. You've burned your pensions to the pensioners you've returned. You didn't defend, the war was over. ... Please face the facts nicely. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Those aren't my numbers. I remember a tourist on the Adriatic looking for a candle. And the European Union, remember, television, human rights, justice, whoever talked until 2000 about the European Union? No one. We shouldn't have gone to Europe. We were ashamed when our delegations came. Now, gentlemen, these are the effects of HDZ policy by 2000. And that's why after 2000 it didn't work out the way we hoped. About indifference, all other things we'll have a lot to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4954	Thank you. I'd ask the MPs to stick to the subject. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4955	Thank you very much. A dear colleague of Shime Luchin forgot only one thing in his exposé. That by 1998, by January 15th, Croatia was at war, under aggression. If you'd watched TV, you'd have read the newspaper. Because of what you said that 500 thousand jobs had not been shut down by the HDZ government, it extinguished one part of the inherited communist economy in which 200,000 employees were in the 1990s. received salary on account of this task in which 70% of businesses had legal conditions for bankruptcy but did not submit it for political reasons and in which Serbian aggression killed about 30% of the infrastructure in Croatia. So much for 500 thousand jobs. As far as we're concerned, we've taken the pensioners. We took it when we had to arm the Croatian army. If you followed the media, you would see that Croatia then founded its army, had won the war and then paid back the debt to the pensioners. Also for tourists you asked for a candle should be reminded and reminded of, it was again written in the NATO newspaper that flew across the Croatian coast and rocketed Serbia for political reasons. And that year we had the only drop in tourism, and that year we had the only negative gross social product, and then we went to NATO or Belgrade for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4956	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4957	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I see that we are about a simple law that offers a very simple solution to how to help currently those who do not, and that's primarily what workers and pensioners have done, a big debate and fellow Hebrang is in this complicated explanation that refusing such a single law on things said that here are these miserable I would say to the hundred and so many billion state budgets of 4 billion kuna this government is unable to find. I agree with him that this government is not in a position to find these 4 billion kunas once to help low-income employees to monitor inflation and pensioners who have even less pensions. But here I believe, however, that this government isn't very incompetent but simply won't, so this government doesn't want to help pensioners and pensioners, and that's why this bile defense is that this law, I simply say, is rejected. And then we're comforted by these pensioners, those pensioners, and those workers who have a small salary here's comfort from Mr. Hebrang, you know you don't have empty pockets, which you'd like, so empty pockets have Czechs. I don't think that my neighbor who has a small salary and my mother's pensioner really cares if the Czechs have empty pockets, she's interested in how their pocket needs to be filled and it's probably necessary for this government to do something anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4958	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4959	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Denoni, he obviously conveys his local experiences to the state level when he says, quote: "Well, these 4 billion he would take from me from a 100 billion hard budget, a little more than 100 billion fortunately says miserablely... My colleagues on the left, this button is mine even if it's red. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] We can give those poor 4 billion but those poor 4 billion are 4% of the state budget and 4% of the state budget is whether or not to be for the economy. I know you don't understand that because for you and 4.9% of what your colleague Linic said the budget deficit wasn't much. It's huge, it's inadmissible, it's entering the red, it's seizing hands into the pockets of other generations of our children, our grandsons who will repay it. 4% of my colleague Denon is terribly large and 4 billion responsible MPs cannot declare misery. And that's why the fundamental difference between politics being introduced here because it's about health and real judgment and the good intentions of this government is very important. You get in the pockets of workers when it's politically appropriate for you. We only get in the way when it comes to the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Since it's not a defense now, it's not about getting in the pockets, it's about passing laws that will benefit, not harm. This is a law on damage because it takes from the budget, takes from the capital gains that are just developing and only develops, takes from the HZZO, takes from the employer and takes from the pension fund. Well, if it's positive and you prove to me that it's a positive law I'll raise my hand to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4960	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Slavko Linic. But forgive me, Your Honor, you are not scheduled for Rajko Ostojic, Miranda Mrsic. Excuse me, that's what it says. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4961	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We can determine two facts from this debate so far. The first fact that we all seem to agree on is difficult for Croatia's citizens and will be even more difficult in 2008. Croatian citizens will live in less real life than last year. This is also referred to by the Croatian National Bank documents, which is also referred to by the documents of our budget. And these are facts that no one in today's debate dispute. The Croatian citizen will receive a salary in 2008 with which he will not be able to buy the same amount of food and clothing as in 2007. He'll live worse. What did we even say and listen to? It's his fault there's some stock exchange in Argentina, which is why he's guilty of import inflation. Can we from Croatia act on it? Obviously we can't. And it is evident that our measures will not bring down the rate of inflation and disturbances the foreign world has towards the citizens of Croatia. And that's normal to expect. And what is the answer of the fiscal authorities is that citizens don't live worse. Citizen, we exist for citizens and we don't understand because this fiscal government says it's not war, we're going to live worse, we're not interested in living worse, we don't have a solution. That's where we differ, you see. And we say it's a concern for us here in the Parliament, and it should be the concern of both the Croatian governments, and we need to prevent that poorer standard of living that we expect in this year from fiscal measures because we have instruments to do so. But we don't understand each other here. And what don't we understand about? Well, you see, we're trying to say change the way we tax, change. Let us try health care as a problem of the Republic of Croatia that we have not solved to the end, we have not completed the reform. Let us try to transfer the burden of this health care to the richer citizens of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also obliges us to do so. This is what we are bound by the trend in 2008. Because those who are poor will be even more poor, and they must pay for our common problem called health care. We of the SDP say, gentlemen, change relations in tax policy. Let us make it easier for the poor citizens of Croatia who are hard to live on the results of their work. And let's try to find models like burdensome those who live on their incomes based on capital and who are wealthier citizens than workers. Let's try to suggest that. Let's change fiscal policy to keep workers from falling standards. What are your answers? We're stupid, we're illiterate, we're unprofessional, we're dilettant, we're politician, thank you very much. It's a way of parliamentary communication. Thank you for your adjectives, we don't mind. You're showing your quality. A policy proposal to stop the fall of standards where we say redistribute taxes you insult us, demean us, excellently, gentlemen you've shown how you think about your colleagues in the Parliament. Who gives us the right to even deal with it? We are the sinners of 2003, we are zero, as my colleague says, we were not even involved in the defense. And what is it? It's a way of political behavior, bravo, bravo, excellent. We will continue to do so, but we will continue as SDPs for this speaker to try to offer solutions because we too have a part of the confidence of these citizens. And we have, and you try instead of justifying that it's a difficult problem, that it's not possible to spend overnight and that we should question both this and that, we don't mind. You're the only one who says we're dilithans. No problem. Not for the first time or for the last time, that's how we communicate politically. Well, I guess it'll be easier for the citizens then to understand that politicians communicate in the same way. So they're hard and they don't understand when they don't trust us. But dear gentlemen, the work of both this Parliament and the Croatian Government to resolve that status. You see, we vice versa, unlike you, are just trying to send a clear message that, we accept your position, you don't want to change the tax system, you don't want richer citizens to pay for a bigger participation for health care, that's what we're politically different and it's not a problem. We SDPs want us to want the health burden to be taken by richer citizens because we have 10%, well-being citizens. And We gave you examples. Get 20 million kunas of income in one year based on capital don't pay anything. Sell the company 2 billion kuna, 2 billion, pay nothing. These are facts in Croatia, it happens in Croatia. If this is happening in Croatia, it is impossible not to tax it. Yesterday at the debate on the National Bank Report, as we say. Foreign owners earn money in Croatia, and what do they pay? They pay a little bit, do they need more?- I'm sorry. Let's change those taxes, then we're short on health care, we're short on health care. But you see, that's where we differ and we don't want to disqualify you. We say, no, you're a party that's afraid to turn with a tax policy towards those who live in a better quality than workers, who make bigger incomes. We have nothing against their income but we estimate that they should make a greater contribution to health problems. And you don't want to. We're here to guide you people, let's change it, let's change it. Because that's something we need to understand that today in Croatia in 2008. That in 2008, a part of the citizens will have a hard time living off their salaries and a part of them will live easier. Let's tax them. Let's go, that's what we say we change, let's change gentlemen. You won't, you won't. In that we differ, these are differences in our political views. But also a very clear message. The economy has sent word to all of us, it can't raise wages, it can't bear the burden of falling citizens' standards. But also an economy with a worker who is not stimulated, who does not see the perspective of investing its work, which is afraid, will not have so much effect to be competitive on the European market. There is also our responsibility for this economy. There's something we can do about fiscal policy change. Obviously, there will be no such agreement, that there will be no agreement, but we have sent clear messages. We can change and we have to change because there we all agree that it's harder for citizens, someone has a proposal, it's a redistribution of taxes, it binds us to the Constitution, it binds us and the situation in the economy. Part of the people assess the need to protect a smaller but richer layer of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4962	Thank you. I just want to say this. Since I led the session, I did not notice any MPs that there were intentional insults and that it was not in the context of a toleranceal debate as usual in the Croatian Parliament. If anything like that, as you said, I'm sure I would react, but in today's debate, it was politically sharp, but it was tolerant and without personal insults. Now we have one group of corrections of incorrect allegations. First, the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, my colleague Linic, I would say that only to the gentleman is the time and day of the last day or you of the terrible court which you are here now, by your speech, I would say, to Croatia announced and therefore, I disagree. However, your politics is impossible to correct by politics, so I would correct it with one fact. You said that we all agree here and that we said that Croatia's citizens are hard to live for, and you stressed it in particular, but it will be harder for them. That means God knows what's waiting for them. So we disagree and we didn't say it here. But we have said that such a proposal that would take 4 billion kunas would really disrupt life in Croatia and would be difficult for them. Of all the most difficult, however, would be those who are the most difficult, and these are the patients. Therefore, hiding behind them is extremely incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4964	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that a colleague of this government speaks with such a hate language, so constantly stressing that this government has no solution for this, this government has no solution. That's not true. The government has shown that there is a solution that citizens have also confirmed in these past elections by pointing to pensioners. I can tell you that this government has improved the standard of living for pensioners through a series of legal acts. That it also reduced the difference between old and new pensioners, and you don't have a solution to how you say this simple law that you presented, and the Proposer was talking about the law of probability. It'll probably be, we'll probably do it. You're saying the state has to make up for it. Well, it's also likely that the state has to make up for it. However, the state has its own budget and it is well known which items should be downloaded and how many items should be taken from in order to make up for four million. And it's good that you withdrew this Health Insurance Act because it's an example for you where in the state budget funds were provided and where the administrative fee could be withdrawn. So that was the way one law was explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4966	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Next correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4967	Thank you very much. You've already said something about it, Mr. Vice President. But I now quote: “You said we were stupid.” That colleague is not true. We never told you that either my colleagues or I, because our level of debate never goes beyond the level of decency. And we believe that this High House must be an example of decency for those who look at us and for those who have chosen us, and it is really not true that we have said it. Another thing I want to deny. You said you didn't want the rich to pay more. Well, it's the HDZ governments who made the rules and constructed this tax system where the rich definitely pay more. You know that income tax also has progressive rates, etc., that there is profit tax. So, not to say that we've made it so that the rich pay more because it's normal all over the world. And the third thing you said is you don't want to increase your health contributions. We want to increase them. You're reducing them with this bill, and that's why we reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4968	Thank you. Next correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I have to correct my colleague Linic when he said in his debate wanting to impose precisely on HDZ representatives that we said "you are dilettantes, you are stupid etc." That is not true. I didn't hear that. But I'll tell you what's true and what I heard and what should have followed last night's warning, and that's exactly what your colleague, Miss or Mrs. Mirella Holly, has said that the HDZ government is dilettante. That's true, and don't turn things around. And secondly, your second incorrect quote that you said that we simply don't want to change the tax system to make life easier for citizens and have a better life. That's not true. You persistently wanted to impose your tax system, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia gave a vote to the Croatian democratic community precisely because they disagree with your tax proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4970	Thank you. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague has already corrected Mr. Linic's incorrect allegations that someone on the left is from this side, so HDZ said that, that this is a dilettante proposal or that colleagues from the SDP are diletaries. We could hear yesterday, the truth is that a colleague means SDP, I don't know the name of a colleague, yesterday she told the Government of the Republic of Croatia that she was a dilettant government which I think is below every level of democratic debate and dialogue. Also, Mr. Linic says that we reject one elaborate fiscal policy. It is true that these proposals are not about any meaningful fiscal policy, but about trying to put an end to some kind of fire where the fire will continue to bulge. So, the government announced one elaborate fiscal policy, and I think this is an unserious proposal because it's being passed after the budget for 2008. So, this is not a concise fiscal policy, but this is an unserious proposal that was brought here at the Assembly by or proposed by the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4972	Thank you. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4973	Mr. President, so here's counterpart Linic claims, saying you don't want richer citizens to pay higher taxes. So we know that richer citizens pay higher taxes, to fill the state budget that's with us as well as anywhere in the world. However, I am particularly pleased to see that my colleague Linic finally understood after five, six years of a message from Robin Hood "take the rich and give it to the poor". But you did the opposite, you took the poor, and you shared with the rich what they wanted. So you've been cashing the shipyard, and I'm not going to the banks. We agreed that we wouldn't mention it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4974	Thank you. Please! Please don't throw it away! Please! Did you, please? Your Honor, please do not throw away from the bench or each other if you are looking for a word to ask for. Don't...... Dear Representative Linic, Your Honor Linic, please don't do this. [[- Intruder Linic, you don't understand.]] That's not what the esteemed representative told you. That's not what he said. Dear Representative, please, you cannot discuss the Rules of Procedure from the bench without getting your word and do not force me to take action. Last night was the same, but that's not the point. That's not the point, Your Honor. The goal is to conduct the debate. He didn't tell you you were a thief. That is incorrectly respected representative Linic! Please! Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4975	A respected colleague said that this government has no solution for discharging the poor, and there is no solution to the economic problems, and I will, already style, so I will just point out that this government has opened 130 thousand jobs in the past period, unlike that of the government led by Mr Linic, his favorite way of solving the problem was bankruptcy. For the first time in Croatia, almost 450 thousand workers ended up on the labour market thanks to such a way of solving the problem, and was also nicknamed Slavko bankruptaško did. So we didn't even say that then...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4976	Dear Representative Rebic, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4977	We didn't even say at the time that a respected colleague and his party who was then acting was not doing well. And then we thought there were companies that were supposed to end up in bankruptcy for objective reasons, but not all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4978	Please, distinguished MPs and MPs have no reason to tighten the debate and thus lead the debate. I think we should bring the debate to an end, that is, a peaceful argument, nor is there an increased tone of argument, and neither is the debate that someone said, so without throwing it out of the bench. So the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4979	Mr. Vice President, I admire to you how you've been able to manage and try to hold...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4980	Your Honor, what article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4981	210.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4982	I thank you for obviously not looking...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4983	210.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4984	You can't call 210. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4985	And you will allow yourself to be in this House... Get me out of here, to share insults. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4986	I won't keep you away, but I won't...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4987	Why are you letting the MPs be offended?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4988	Have a seat. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll try a little bit without the raised tones. I believe that you have injured the 214th article, that you should have also warned your colleague Markovinović and Mr. Honorable Representative Rebić after they insulted their colleague, Linić. Mr. Rebic said Slavko, now I won't repeat what he said, it's an insult, gentlemen. It's an insult. You can't disrespect your colleagues. And Mr. Markovanovic made it clear what Mr. Linic was reacting to, that we shared hotels, that we shared money. That's not true, you can't treat your colleagues like that. And please, Mr. Vice President, warn your colleagues from your club that I can't talk to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4990	Thank you. You didn't listen to me warn them and Honorable representative Linic, and you can't ask, you can only warn. That would end the morning debate. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m. Excuse me, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4991	Dear colleague Linic, I have another correction to the incorrect quote I ask you to. In the end, there is a peaceable tone, unlike many of what they have said here, I have seriously listened to the esteemed colleague Linić and I have absolutely nothing against his temperamental debate and in the frameworks, he is not outside the box and a lot of what he said I would sign a serious state among Croatian workers and pensioners. What I have come up with is one fact that I do not personally agree with, and that the Croatian economy cannot suffer higher wages. I don't think that the Croatian economy can endure endlessly higher wages, but higher wages can be suffered because today in Croatia profits are made the most on unpaid work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4992	Thank you. I said wrong, break till 3:00. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues here are a few words to repeat, perhaps before the end of this item of the agenda, about the amendment of the Law on Obligatory Insurance Contributions so that there is no particular amnesia of what is happening, and it is evident from some past times when similar decisions have been made on the burden of workers and are forgotten. According to the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act, employees' salaries would increase by 5.75% against which, of course, no normal would have anything to do with it if it did not go to the expense and damage of the base rate reduction, i.e. compulsory health insurance, 4% of which is nominally 5 billion kuna less income from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance all year round. When we know how significant these funds are and how much they mean to our health care, this proposal cannot be accepted unilaterally. Moreover, the SDP Representatives' Club also offers revenue sources to finance the reduction. How realistic these sources are, or how realistic these sources are to judge themselves, two are offered. The first source is savings in the state budget for which there are no proposed concrete items from the budget, measures and ways to reach these savings, and neither the sums to be secured in this way. The second also quite flatly proposed measure, i.e. the source of savings, is the taxation of capital revenue which has already been discussed, and I think it is good to repeat, which is also an unargumented and unrealistic assessment. The new tax should only be referred to the legal procedure, the question is if he would actually live and the costs. The lack of income for HZZO would occur quickly, i.e. Immediately after the proposed law has been passed, the issue remains open in the meantime. Secondly, with regard to capital revenue, it is what as many as tens or hundreds of billions of kunas would have to increase the turnover of the capital market in order to have at all that capital income tax of not less than 5 billion kuna per one financial year, for which there are also no indicators, no calculations in the draft amendments to the law. Of course, there is also the caution of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the possible increase in employees' salaries is causing an increase in pension expenditure and that no one else but the state budget would again finance. These expenditures are also not considered by the promoter in this proposal, and neither is the revenue in the budget for this kind of new commitments that would arise here in this case, which are basically the most important reasons why this law should not be supported, and I am inclined to think that there is room for cuts in the various costs of employers, savings and thus, realistically, from these cuts and savings could increase employees' salaries. Of course, it should be left to the union and employers negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4995	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4996	A respected colleague has incorrectly found that there would be 4 billion missing in the health budget and something, in this proposal it does not stand anywhere. It says that funds that are not allocated from salaries will be allotted from other sources of budget on the basis of the fact that 30% of the health budget must be financed from other sources. It is therefore incorrect that there will be 4 billion missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4997	Thank you. Let's discuss it further. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4998	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the SDP will act as a responsible opposition in this House, which means that we will support every good proposal no matter what side it comes from, but also that we will be the unsavoury critics of everything we think will come from the government. And, of course, if we are responsible, we will propose legal solutions in front of us that we believe will help the government improve the quality of life of people in Croatia. What happened in January and February? There has been a drastic decline in living standards in the Republic of Croatia, and the government has done nothing. We believe that the government did not do it for the simple reason that it did not know how to prevent a further decline in living standards. If we look that the only attempt to keep living standards from falling further was to create a price commission that reduced some kinds of bread, oil and milk in such a way that the savings at monthly level were 44 kuna, we have estimated that this will not help bring down the standard of living in Croatia and we have decided to offer this proposal that you have before you today. Therefore, it was completely missed the thesis that we could hear that it was an unserious proposal because it was a very serious proposal, and it was made by people who had both knowledge and experience, and that they had knowledge and experience I will tell you on the basis of data related to the Ivica Racan coalition government period from 2000 to 2003 to respond to those criticisms that were in this morning's debate. Namely, the SDP took over then the government in a way that the GDP had a negative growth of minus 0.9% and in 2003 when the SDP handed over power to HDZ, he handed it over with a GDP of 6%. During that period, pensions rose 8% from 2000 to 2003 and followed wage growth. 48% was a salary increase between 2000 and 2003. HDZ took over from the SDP with pensions of 45% of the average salary, and now, at the end of its first term, it reduced pensions to 38%. There are a million and 121 thousand pensioners in Croatia. Half, nearly 600,000 receive a pension below 2 thousand kuna, is available at 66 kuna per day. Three-quarters of households in Croatia have problems undermining their monthly financial commitments. 40% of households in Croatia live worse than they lived during the same period last year. There's a growing number of households that barely make ends meet. In 2007, it was 34% in Croatia, and now 38%. Most of them are in Slavonia 51%. The number of households that spend existing savings to survive is also increasing, from 14% to 17%. The most forced households with average monthly incomes are up to 2 thousand kuna, the most in northern Croatia, Lici, Kordun and Banovini. What is particularly worrying is that the deterioration of the financial situation of the household over the past year in northern Croatia is 47%, in Slavonia. They all feel that in the next year they will live much harder and that they will be able to buy less for the salary and pension they receive. Therefore, the proposal offered by the SDP allows for the current increase in wages by 5.75%. In this way, we will mitigate the decline in inflation standards foreseen for 2008. But what's important is we propose a growth in gross wages, a rise in net wages, which means there won't be any cost to the economy. There will be no increase in labour costs. The issues related to pension insurance have been completely missed because we believe that, in this way, part of the transition cost of pension insurance through a contribution based on generation solidarity, we transfer workers to the employer. Citizens living from their work in Croatia spend 30% of their salary each month. However, citizens living on capital do not pay taxes or dividends. So we feel that our proposal shows a new trend. Salary can no longer be the only basis for health funding. Health financing must also be passed on to citizens who earn from capital. These tax changes make it possible to create solidarity for those who have more with those who have less. And these tax changes are also on the trail of tax solutions in the countries of the European Union. Therefore, our proposal allows Croatia to draw closer to the modern European Union guidelines on health financing as well as to finance pension insurance and to prevent our proposal from further destroying the living standards of people in Croatia. And that's why I think this proposal should really be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u4999	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5000	Your Honor! A fellow representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5001	It's not going to work. The vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5002	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! I am correcting an incorrect statement by my colleagues, and I have no intention of defending neither the government nor the HDZ, but the truth is, never a pension during the coalition government was 40% of the average salary, but at the most 43% of the average salary amounted to pension payments, which included a three-and-a-half billion-year debt repayment. That's true. And these 40.34% as in this month the average salary in the average pension has not been included and has not been included for the past two years. It's just the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5003	Thank you. The next correction of the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said that during their coalition government it was GDP plus 6%, and during our minus 98%, which is not true, because the right state should also be included in the 24 billion-euro debt they did in their mandate to increase that GDP to 6%. So then we get the right picture and this is the wrong information. It is also not true that the ratio of pensions to average salary has increased because pensions have been raised but because wages have been lowered, so this is not in favor but against his government. Finally, the fact that in the northwestern part of Croatia citizens live badly because of the government's policy is incorrect. They live badly there because there is a different proportion of the local government of the SDP coalition, the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5005	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5006	Well, my colleague said what I wanted, but that's not why. Namely, a colleague says in our time. That's probably the period there in 2000, 2003. Well, the pensions followed the salary growth. Normal pensions at peace, parasols. We can bring witnesses, I mean all the employees in this building and next door building and stuff. He'll be very happy to testify.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5007	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5008	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I think that this debate is really exhausting, and I'm afraid I'm not going to say anything new, and not particularly smart, so in a certain way, maybe I'd just look back on what we've heard so far and make some kind of comment as a contribution. So, unfortunately, we really can't do anything different about this proposal but I don't know, maybe it's a good try, but it's inconclusive, in practice it's inconclusive, and as such we simply can't support it. On the other hand, if we were to be a little stricter critics, then we could say that if we adopted this proposal and accepted it to actually make it a creed from a system that has problems leading to a breakdown, because it is simply inexecutable. And that's the basic problem. You said at the beginning that it was an attempt to improve the standards of Croatian citizens. Yeah. But how? So, I don't doubt that you had any real intention of doing it, but how? Health by definition is also social well-being. However, this social well-being certainly includes the health of citizens, so it is not at all to the harm of health. Therefore, and on this side of the law, this proposal does not hold water. Someone said I don't know, that this is concern, someone said so, care for the citizens to live easier. Then there was a talk about how much is set out here when it comes to health care directly from the health care pocket and how much is the state out of the budget. There was a speech, as far as I don't know, Germany stands out, how much Croatia stands out. Indeed, these indicators, I would say impressive how much Croatia stands out for health care and as a percentage of gross national product, but also in absolute terms and how much one Germany stands out. And if we compare those amounts then we'll really see that we don't have the right to take out 4 billion kuna from the system, not to secure their compensation. She's just not insured. There was talk that we were socially insensitive, so as I don't know, some kind of remark was directed to the government, to all of us here. But what social sensitivity or insensitivity are you alluding to? However, when it comes to the health care system, I don't know any about the system in Europe, and I don't know, I can't say in the world, but it's more socially sensitive when it comes to protecting the health of a country's citizens from the Croatian system. And that number you mentioned to Mrsic, and that is true that the World Health Organization states that I do not know Croatia sets out for health care, that part of the total separation for healthcare 20% goes out of pocket. However, we must, direct investment, but we need to know that this does not apply to public health services, but only to private services. So if someone wants a quick favor, if anyone wants a favor, I don't know either, I'm not coming to you, so I'm gonna pick another doctor. I won't wait this long, not so much to search, but I want to go in private and do that search, etc. Maybe they're bigger than that. However, it is simply not a deviation of the system but simply a possibility more in one system and it is absolutely acceptable and it will be so everywhere. As far as Germany is concerned, I've already checked it out here, which you've listed, then Germany is really detaching directly out of the pocket, which would say health care somewhere around 23% compared to total health care separation. Finally, it was also heard how this Law actually contributed to so - called “the Law. ” Or it was some sort of equation of one-time and quick assistance to those who had the most difficulty. I remain in that however difficult it is for anyone to have Croatian society going to better every day and simply that the standard of life, if this can be said in Croatia, is growing and bigger and that those who find it difficult this law simply will not help. But of course he's one of those who's having a hard time, the hardest thing for the sick themselves. However, they would be directly affected, as we have heard in this debate this morning by the adoption of one of these laws, or by the adoption of one of these laws. So he's unacceptable to us. On the contrary, and despite the proposal being made directly, the text reads, saying, we think that realistically, we think it is realistic that it will be found by redistribution in the state budget of the funds, i.e. to raise that money, and there's still a reference to capital gain tax as a source. However, the Finance Committee itself, which I am keeping here, has given an absolutely relevant answer in a certain way, and the Government itself, when it comes to this bill and where it is clearly said that the basis for taxation of capital gains is so and so is all this other thing that you have said that it is not realistic to expect that we can raise that money. Finally, indeed, this really is one attempt to talk about health care again, and it is good to talk about it, but surely it is not a contribution to solving problems. I'd end up with one sentence that I liked very much, which was said by our club president Professor Hebrang. And I think we should all stick to it, and I think that in this House, we should all adopt this as one chalk because then we wouldn't waste time and actually don't have to convince each other that it's inconclusive and unacceptable. He said so. Cheap political points can get far cheaper than the price this law would cost. So I'm really sorry, but we can play football together and we can be good friends and that's what we hope and we will be, but we can't support this law because it's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5009	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5010	A colleague, Bagaric, spoke about the fact that Croatia singles out an impressive amount for health insurance. And my colleague Bagaric, we're pulling 18.5 billion kuna out of our salaries. So, that's what we set out to do. The tax state and other fiscal budgets account for less than 2%. Therefore, the state as itself does not single out what should be singled out, which means that the state, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, should allocate between 30% and 40% of the income. And that will welcome us, if that is true by 2009, negotiations like they say in the paper today should end, it will welcome us because we must comply with the European directive where it is written there. Therefore, it is not the state that is singled out, but it is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5011	Thank you. Dear representative Carmela Caparin. An individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, arguing for a long time about this Law, often turning away from the subject of this Law and it was visible in the debate when it sought to turn away from the topic and to talk about the social insensibility of this Government, which I have in replicas, i.e. in the corrections of incorrect allegations, precisely denied. There's been a lot of talk about this law, but how someone should handle it, whether it's a country, citizens, etc. I'm sorry that when a colleague talked about this Law then spoke like, I've already mentioned as one law based on the law of probability, when there'll probably be inflation so much, and then we'll have to make up for it, we'll probably have to get out of the state budget. So, it's about a law that isn't, I'd say, and I'd dare say it wasn't worked out and I'm sorry that the experts from his club didn't help him. Because it's obvious that this bill reduces the contribution rate to pension insurance by 4%, so from 20% to 16%, that this rate is charged to employers. And the question is how will this employer make up for it if we know that today's employers are doing business with some positive zero. Or I'll tell you an example of a hospital where you know for a fact that 70 to 80% of the hospital's resources go to pay. And how hospitals work by creating every month the loss this government has said will make up for. On the other hand, the contribution rate for basic health insurance is reduced by 4%, hence, from 15% to 11% and where wages would increase by 5.75%. However, there is little explanation for this deficit of 4, then, as we have already heard, 5 billion kuna in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So it could probably be compensated by saving in the state budget. I mean, make up for in the state budget, and the state budget we've already voted on, and the funds have already been determined where they're going. On the other hand, we could tax capital revenues if there was no profit in that law at all, the capital gain is how much and how much of it we could single out. And thirdly, the increase in VAT revenue. So, if I don't repeat this law is not reasoned, there's no good basis to be adopted at all, and that's why I can't accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5013	Thank you. We have two applications for five minutes on behalf of the club. Hebrang's first representative is Andrew Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5014	... about the very differences in political views rather than about health care. [[Microphones off, you can't hear.]] There are two fundamental differences between our sides to call them there when it comes to health care. The first is financial discipline. We are for absolute, strict and irreplaceable financial discipline, and therefore we want the budget deficit zero, and therefore we can neither for health nor for school, nor for anything we take on the burden of overcoming that budget. And there's a fundamental difference. That's why we seek the deficit of zero, which is why the deficit we have found at 6.3% was a great burden for us and it was not any of Shucker's deficits, but it was a deficit that today was cited in all international financial institutions and deficits that are quoted by the Croatian National Bank for that period. Therefore, this is the reference that the Croatian National Bank states in all statistical tables, see on the Internet for that period. We don't want the deficit, we want to help this economy, not help. Secondly, the deficit was built on the burden of a billion-and-a-half hidden refurbishment guarantees and based on a billion-and-a-half hidden loan for the iron mill, hidden in the statement rather than literally. That's not what we want. We want clean accounts of budget, clean sources and clean costs of financing. What is a big difference between us is the interpretation of certain income and expenditure items. In this law, for example, I will not repeat, there are five uncleared income and expenditure items, and that is why it is simply not applicable. Now we have a new very similar bill that does not tax itself and the base increases from a thousand 600 to a thousand 900 kuna. It is, of course, a discharge for one who must pay on income, but on whose burden. The burden of local administration and self-government that goes because, as we know, that income tax goes 15% goes to the county level and 52% goes to municipal and city levels. We do not want to centralise the state but to decentralisation so that, apart from being monitored for over-income and expenditure, care should be taken to avoid disrupting the balance between the central state and local administration and self-government. Therefore, such laws cannot pass while HDZ is responsible for this state because it would disrupt this law of the state budget and the next one coming would reduce funding for decentralised administration, local administrations and self-government. Another fundamental difference between us is that we claim that the price of health care is too low and that is the source of all evils. The price of health care is to be paid. Who needs to pay for it, that's what we have to deal with. The state budget can't. We must find new funds, new sources but not on the burden of the state budget as this proposal says, but we will have to go with a share of the price to the market because all European countries have done it without any directive. This has led them to the necessity and inability to raise the price of health services to reality. Just to remind you, my price of my service to a regular university professor and long-time specialists and subspecies is my one service costing 50 kuna. And I'm sorry, when we're going to cut our hair, then I have to pay 80 kuna. And there's the problem with Croatian health care. To resolve it, since, of course, from that price of 50 kuna threads can be paid to me or to my sister or to anyone on my team, neither can the medicine be paid nor can it be given more than 17 kunas for the diet of patients per day. And there's the source of all the problems. And I suggest that instead of politicizing, we gather our heads together and try to find a solution to that. Then we'll have to do it. What should still be mentioned here is that, in the proposed law we are talking about, there is no even touched cause of the problem and that is the low price of health services. Our price of health care is tailored to social needs and it could go so long as the price of the world that is being built into that price and these are medicines, equipment, etc. She didn't start growing dizzy. And finally, I would like to remind myself of a message recently issued by the health minister, Dr. Milinovic, who said: "We can argue as much as we want. Who's gonna pull the short end? Neither side but patients. We propose a consensus for the reorganisation and reform of health insurance.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5015	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. She's the first distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5016	I'll try two corrections in a short time. First, it is incorrect that the Croatian National Bank showed a deficit in 2003 of 6.3%. She did it, the report didn't do it, it did it on the government's pressure on a piece of paper that was given to us as one add-on. Another false assumption is that you want to show that you want a zero deficit. You just want to show it zero. That this is incorrectly speaking and there is Minister Schuker who told us that in the deficit they are not the debts of county hospitals as if it were not a debt but they are not shown in the deficit, nor are they the data of which the State Audit Office is talking about, and these are the excesses of the planning costs or the failure of certain costs at the time when they were incurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5017	Thank you. And another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5018	Dear fellow Hebrang has incorrectly said that the source of all the evils in the health system is that it is a low labour price and the source of the problem in the health system is the disorganization of the system and the problems that arise in the organization of primary and health care that hebrang in this way set up before here now I think for 13 years if I remember, it is 95 years. So that's the basic problem why it's going like that. When primary healthcare is resolved then all problems will be solved, not a problem in money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5019	Thank you. Yeah, it's all in the pens at the end. And distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5020	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will repeat that I am grateful to my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP Club for opening this debate and for this bill and for today's debate, which has been conducted with a lot of ferocious evidence that this is an important topic. And there's a lot of what's been said today that's true. And it would be good to, after this debate, that what has been said truthfully remains in memory, and what's said like this off the record like this to pass and yes, in a way forget it. Here, what I have reported for this, for this final word on behalf of the HSLS and HSU Club, is that it would not create a false image here that this Law offers quick help to pensioners and workers and that the illusion is that this Law is a magical solution for workers and pensioners. It's far from that, it's one of the attempts, to clarify this story, to try to do something, etc., but it's far from magical solutions. Because we as responsible people, primarily adults, have no right to believe in fairy tales, because we know that the system is built by a method of small steps, and neither do we have the right to convince others that there are fairy tales and there are magical solutions. What I'd say is enough of what Mr. Linic said here after this pay phone, very temperamentally, I would agree, and if we were to decide today on a capital gains tax, I would certainly raise my hand for it. And no party discipline, no coalition in that sense could stop me. Mr. Linic seemed to be talking about the new social cohesion needed in this society. So, redistribution, not redistribution of poverty, but redistribution of goods because we have something else. And I kind of told him and suggested just to correct the position in the part that our economy can't pay more wages. Our economy can also have seas, i.e. the state has to make sure that it pays higher wages, i.e. to pay for all unpaid work in trade, tourism, etc., through, therefore, creating conditions for labour inspection to charge that part. Through the giving of criteria, from last term we have a good proposal from fellow Lesar, related to, very easy to record working hours based on which work inspection can act. So today we are faced with the fact that Croatia's profit is created not on quality service, not on quality product, but in the most part on unpaid work. What I am, what my opinion SDP will come to power, when, I don't know, I'm not allowed to know when it will come but it will come safely. And I bet now, from this pay phone, that in that case this law would not offer, but I think it would go the other way. The SDP as I experience social democracy to offer these solutions to social partners to manifest and build on such foundations, build a position. I am sure that even if 4% of the contributions were to be directed, i.e. to free the employer from paying 10, 4% of the contributions to count on us as we are in order to cut the wages to the workers before, or to cut the salary before the employer, or leave it at the same net level and reduce his contributions to the worker rather than accept what is proposed by automation. I think our solution that we have offered in our last minimum wage mandate is a better quality solution. And I'm also going to say that what you suggested and what we suggested is not incompatible. So, there are touching points, there are touching points. And I agree in the end that this kind of thing requires a consensus that it's not enough just to oppose opinions in, from these constituencies, but one thorough conversation, a conversation of people of goodwill who plan well for their community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5021	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of the representative of Hrelja, where he said it was a magical solution, suggesting that it was something abstract, inconclusive and something like that. I think this is neither magical nor inexecutable, but rather a very real and feasible solution, which basically contains only two things. Will you choose to take some of the people who have some more money to more alimony in the needs of all of us together, in the needs of public spending. And it's strange to me, it's strange to me that Mr. Hsu and HSLS, who in his name has a social component that he advocates not taking that step.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5023	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5024	I will also correct the quote away from the solution and it falls into fairy tales. Of course everyone can believe and not believe in fairy tales, but a colleague of the Hrelja began to say later that he was psychic. So he probably believes in fairy tales, I don't believe in fairy tales. And these solutions, these three laws offer very specific solutions to living standards. All three laws, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. Let me document that. Point 3 of the administrative fee you accepted. Unfortunately, four years ago, HSU allowed administrative fees to be charged to all including pensioners, including pensioners. It doesn't even exist in the United States. And that it is very practical to prove to us and the chairman of the Committee on Finance Mr., Doctor of Science Goran Majic, who says: we cannot agree to your request at this time, but we will quote: "...at the latest by the end of November 2008 propose certain amendments to this Law that will be in line with the legislation of the European Union so that its application may begin as of January 2009," finished the quote. So we're offering you, don't wait for November You catch him now, and that's how you've got the solutions. [[Intruder: Time!]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5025	Thank you. And the final review of the promoter of the esteemed representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5026	Mr. Vice President, members, representatives of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I thank all the participants for the debate, for their participation in this debate. I believe that this is the beginning of our discussions on how we will try to redistribute the burden of our social problems depending on the power of every Croatian citizen. And here we are trying to open this debate. So also to those citizens who are slightly stronger paying powers and who should take on greater, greater contribution to the social problems of Croatian citizens. About those who have entered Croatia, they are making high profits and not participating enough to solve our social problems. And also about the owners who seem to know how to circumvent certain regulations and not pay the workers enough, and that part can also be resolved. These are the topics we need to open. And another topic that hasn't been opened since the SDP this time, and that's the pensioner's problem. Because it is evident that the worker still carries the burden of the transition cost of the pension system. Because the worker gives participation for generational solidarity and for his own savings and it is evident that the worker with his salary cannot carry such a burden and that it is evident that part of it will have to be transferred to the employer. But then there's always a question and how to finance health care? These are serious topics that will be dealt with as soon as possible, and we will allow workers who will be more satisfied with their incomes, who will be able to make their family's incomes more quality and life and future. But also workers who will then, with certain satisfaction and security, make a much stronger contribution to the economies in winning the European market and strengthening the competitive power of the Croatian economy. Our problems, which is a health system, which is a pension system cannot be burdened only by employees in the Republic of Croatia. By solving employees and indirectly we will begin to solve the quality of receiving our pensioners, which is more than 50% of Croatian regiments, more than 50% of Croatian citizens. That's what we think we need to open up the debate, that we need to find solutions. The time has passed for the coalition government, and for Sanader's government, is the government's new mandate. Such moves should try to resolve themselves at the beginning of our term of office. This is the first reading anyway. We are trying to tie this problem to the growing cost of the lives of Croatian citizens who will seriously endanger them this year. Because there's no answer, unfortunately. Employers negatively, the government is trying to influence price keeping by political actions, and we already know the announcements. HEP says he can't take it without rising prices. The current's going up, oil's the problem. It's not going under a hundred bucks. They're all facts that indicate. Energy will affect the growth of many, many prices and it is evident that 5% of inflation will still be happy and the question remains whether it will be higher. And, of course, without the salary growth, we won't be able to solve that part. But growth pays only on the employer's burden, so I would say a violation of such a difficult position as the economy. And because the sooner we start solving these problems, the sooner we open the debate, the more noticeably we can have. Yeah, we're not talking about models here. But listen, I hope you'll be critical of the next point already. It seems to me the next point are standards, what are they called? Pedagogical standards. Look, I haven't seen any valorisations, no valorisations. Is that what we're gonna talk about? So, yes, these are the problems. That's what we should do together. They do. We have a strong administration and I think we can calculate it. It can be calculated. That is why I believe that, if we do not get the support of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, I believe that, according to the announcements on the committee's debates, it will be very serious already this year about certain changes in the tax system, because it will require us to do so and I would say the obligation to comply with the European Union. But I'd say a commitment to the economy to be competitive, but to be a satisfied worker. If there was no need to go back to the debate about me, I'd say our deficits, our ways of showing. These are the debates that diminish here I would say our maneuvering space because we show how much we are able to conflict, confront the past. And that past, not to the voters, not to the citizens, is going to help them. So, there's no need for me to go back to that and try to answer that, run the controversy. That's what I want, and I hope we can have this debate again by the end of the year. I'll be more pleased if it's on the initiative of the Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5027	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, which was tabled by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This conclusion was accepted by 77 votes in favour. So, most of the votes. Against 50, one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5030	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. Allow a few sentences just briefly on this bill. Since we had one comprehensive debate about standards, inflation, growth in economic and other things on the previous agenda. I'm not going to repeat any more or less of that same information now. But the intensity of this law is very similar to that of the first, which is to raise the standards of Croatian citizens, especially those who are the most vulnerable, i.e. the least net salary. This law proposes three things. These are an increase in the untaxable base of the taxpayer from 1600 to 1900 kuna which would also enable the growth of net wages to the most vulnerable parts in the percentage of the most vulnerable part of our employees, those with the lowest salaries. The remaining rates would remain on the same level. So 15, 25, 35 and 45%. Such compliance with this previous Law amending the Law on Contributions would result in a full effect, i.e. citizens with, or employees with minimum salaries, higher wages than those with slightly higher salaries. I don't think we should talk too much about doing this because of what Croatian citizens are having a hard time living, that we should do as much as we can for those who have low wages and for those who have the least money available daily for their daily needs. What is important to say may be an analysis of the fact that this law, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, a little less funds for local units, is not true because we are likely to propose a proposal for a law on fiscal decentralisation where the total income tax will remain local self-government. As you know last year, this changed and by some accounts even a little less money remained in local units compared to when they remained complete, or 30% of the profit tax. So this thesis that by changing this border from 1.600,00 to 1.900,00 kuna something will change in the incomes of local units is not true. The second part of the law includes one injustice for us where certain tax exemptions for healthcare are established, i.e. an increase in the non-taxable part of income for the amounts of real health care costs in the Republic of Croatia for their own purposes, provided that these expenditures are not paid from basic supplementary or private health insurance. These tax reliefs so far could only be used by residents for themselves, but we believe that it is an injustice that they could not use these reliefs for dependent members of their family or their dependent children. This unfair provision should be amended in a way that extends the scope of the relief to the amount of actual costs for health services paid by taxpayers for their dependent children or dependent members of the rope family. And the third thing that we covered by this bill is spending on education, which according to some analyses in 2005 was only 528 kuna, i.e. 0.76% in the structure of total personal consumption. These data are defeated for a country based on its development on education, as each country should be based and we propose the introduction of new reliefs, i.e. the new basis for increasing the non-taxable part of income in the sense of recognising the cost of paying postgraduate studies, the cost of paying accredited lifelong learning programmes, the cost of paying foreign language courses and below 4. I don't think you need to further explain why we need to stimulate our citizens to invest as much in lifelong education as possible because today some standards in the world are that without basic information knowledge or knowledge, at least one foreign language you are not competitive on the labour market. The biggest problem we have in the unemployed is people looking for their jobs at a more serious age, and we have to stimulate them in some way to invest and that tax relief is recognised as investing in their lifelong learning. Finally, I would say that given that we have applied the previous law and this law is some complement to this law, I would invite all MPs to support this law because of what I really think is socially sensitive, that is, raising one level of social sensitivity in Croatia and in some way helping those who are socially most vulnerable, those who earn the least personal income in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5031	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5032	Mr. Vice President, the claim that there was less money left for local units by the amendments to the Income Tax Act last year is not correct. In fact, all of us here as representatives have received a reply from the Ministry of Finance to the representative question of Parliamentarians Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. It is evident from this here that every unit of local self-government, every city, every municipality in the county, has seen much more in 2007 than in 2006. You're welcome to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5033	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5034	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club proposes the following changes. This is an increase in the untaxable personal deduction from 1.600,00 kuna to 1.900,00 kuna and then also those personal deductions for dependent members. The introduction or extension of a single tax relief, which is also for health services from the taxpayer, also on dependent members and also the introduction of one new tax relief, which is also for the educational needs of the taxpayer and also for the members of the rope family. According to the simulations carried out by the Ministry of Finance, this change would result in a reduction in revenues in the state budget, and we know that the part that goes towards a balance of 207 million kuna, for the county budget of 180 million kuna and for municipal and urban budgets that participate most in the distribution of income tax per billion and 62 million kuna. With the application of the law of 1 January 2005, a large number of tax exemptions have already been prescribed and we believe that introducing new and extending old tax exemptions would lead to additional difficulties in applying tax regulations as well as increasing tax collection costs. One more thing is that income from income tax is already foreseen in the budgets of units of local administration and self-government that have been adopted and means with this change there would be some difficulties in their implementation and lower collection of these revenues. In addition, as with taxes, as with mandatory contributions, the alignment of the Income Tax Act with the acquis of the European Union is foreseen at the end of the year, so the Government predicts that these discussions and these proposals that I have to make, I think they still require a more detailed analysis. And it all goes into the state budget and into the budget of local self-government units. It also means that the proposal to amend and supplement and the Tax on Income Act, and also mandatory contributions, would also take into account and examine in detail, make detailed analyses and make certain changes based on them. That is why the government proposes not to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5035	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5036	Mr. President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! What motivated us to go with a bill like this? In fact, just a few days ago, we brought in the 2008 budget in which we planned certain macroeconomic indicators. We planned inflation of about 5% and planned to grow social gross product 4 to 4.5%. It is said to be one conservative planning, and many other problems arise from such conservative planning. At the moment in the first month, we are making inflation about 6%. The salaries paid last month by 1% are actually less than they were a month earlier. So that's the reason for the alarm and the government would have to be, the government to do something about it. I agree with my colleague Hreja who says it's part of the union's role. Trade unions would have to fight for more wages when prices rise significantly. But it's not true until the end. And the government that creates certain frameworks for economic development and growth must take care of both the capital and the work, or that the work is paid fairly. Our wartime workers made the most difficult sacrifice. They had low wages, while pensions were low, while their companies were privatised on the battlefields, when they returned from the battlefields they had no more jobs. It is unfair and it would really be unfair for us to ask them to bear both the most severe or the greatest sacrifice or the price in the process of transitioning our society. We don't have a minimum wage, and at the same time we appeal to our entrepreneurs who we say are making profits and that these profits are so that they can go to pay in part. The appeal obviously doesn't accomplish anything. Because if an appeal were made when our Prime Minister appealed to entrepreneurs to raise their salaries, then the wages wouldn't actually fall 1% in this month. Therefore, appeals to help, but something could help through the legislative procedure. That's why we've proposed a law like this. It is also related to the previous law, however, as we conduct a separate debate a little bit should be reminded of what we have proposed there. If we look at this first part of the proposal where we suggest a personal deduction, the tax deduction from a thousand and 600 kuna increases to 1,000 kuna, then it should be said that in four years, this is the fourth year as the tax, personal tax deduction has not changed. So, in 2004, we established by law the height of thousands and 600 kuna. That's less than 20%. So we include inflation here, we include this thing and the price rise that was in those four years, we'll actually see that the tax deduction is even slightly less than it was in 2004. And an increasing number of people come to that category that they have to pay taxes. So if they make 2 thousand kuna net wages, they, if they only use a personal deduction on 100 kuna, pay a 15% tax rate. At the same time, someone who's gonna make millions on the stock market or sell their company for billions won't pay any lip. It is obvious that we do not implement the provisions of our Constitution which says that citizens are obliged to pay or contribute to the state and society depending on their economic strength. And we have to start applying it sooner or later. The second part refers to certain additional reliefs. You remember that until 2004, until the change of the Income Act, we had reliefs that applied to different categories of health care, housing, sub-inhabitation and the like up to 48 thousand kuna. So, on every basis, a thousand kunas a month. That's when we changed it and reduced it to only 12,000 kuna. It is obvious that a growing number of users, or taxpayers, are using certain types of such reliefs. Yesterday, the secretary of state told us over a million applications for tax returns, so there won't be a full refund, there will be some payment. But it's obvious that people have accepted this, this provision and this possibility. However, it is not logical that a taxpayer can use certain reliefs for himself, but cannot use it as a dependant member of his family. And it really shouldn't even be a big expense because we said that the tax base or can be reduced to a maximum by 12,000 kuna. And if you count it at that rate of 15% to 45%, it's not that huge of an asset. Further, a colleague who spoke on behalf of the promoter explained what we are proposing further to be used as an untaxable part of the income. So it's mostly education. The government tells us in its opinion that entrepreneurs have the right to use tax relief if they send their workers to school. And then it's not normal that if a man himself pays his own costs of additional education or the cost of education for his child that such a relief can't be used. It really doesn't make sense to me. And in the end, it is said that our local and regional self-government would run out of much of the tax money. I'm saying, we put these two laws in the package. Under one law, a little more would be paid in terms of income tax, as the tax base would also be higher for those 300 kuna, and here it is practically the lowest wage, the personal deduction would be increased adequately or in the same amount. By simulation if the worker got the average salary that was paid for last month these differences actually wouldn't have been, it would only relate to those lowest incomes. And just a sentence, two about the government's opinion. I don't think it's happened yet, or very rarely, that the government would give a positive opinion on a legal proposal tabled by an opposition club or an opposition representative. We are not surprised that the government gave such an opinion. However, our wish was, among other things, to offer certain solutions that could potentially be used during the year when the tax system will be harmonised according to the European Union systems. Well, the government is saying something about it, too. She says she proposes not to accept this proposal but at the same time says that she has a plan by the end of the year as well as a law on mandatory contributions to certain changes. So here it says that it, within the framework of legislative activities, will also bring the Income Tax Act into line with the European Union's acquis in the fourth quarter, so only at the end of the year. We'd like her with this proposal of ours a little bit and hurry. And what's interesting to us, in this opinion, is that it will then be considered and further analyzed our club's proposals. Therefore, these are not such unrealistic proposals, there are realities in them, and we would be glad if the Government were to use this proposal when we would be proposed to amend the Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5037	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5038	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The accession of the debate on the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act is important immediately in the introduction to note that the Income Tax Act already provides for certain tax bases and tax rates on the basis of which the taxpayer is determined the amount of tax he is obliged to pay monthly on the basis of his income. The basic and personal deduction, i.e. the non-taxable part of the taxpayer's tax base, now stands at 1,000 kuna per month, and this proposal proposes to increase the non-taxable part of the tax base to 1,000 kuna. In addition to the increase in the non-taxable base, this proposal amending the Income Tax Act proposed that the scope of the relief be extended also for the amount of actual costs for health services paid by taxpayers to support members of the rope family. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce new reliefs, i.e. the new basis for increasing the non-taxable part of income and the tax-based cost of paying postgraduate studies, the cost of paying the accredited Lifelong Learning Programme, the cost of paying foreign language courses and the cost of the information education course. These proposed incentives are in direct correlation with employers and business organisations because they are directly interested in further education and training their employees and for all new proposed benefits, business organisations and other institutions already have tax benefits under the existing Income Act. It is important to recall that the Income Tax Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, increased the basic personal deduction from 1,000 kuna to 1,000 kuna per month and then increased the basic personal deduction factors for dependent children, dependent family members and for the disability of the taxpayer, each dependent member of the family and every child. An increase in personal deductions for the tax deductions of each dependent member of the family and of each child if the solution determines the disability on one basis 100% or who are entitled to help or care for disability. I quote all of this in order to illustrate the scope and diversity of the already existing tax reliefs. Simulation of the average salary of employees of 7 thousand kuna with one dependent child and the projected increase of personal deduction from a thousand 600 kuna to a thousand 900 kuna suggests that taxes and taxes would be reduced by 14% or nominally shown 207 million 756 thousand 58 kuna to the state budget, 180 million 960 thousand 998 kuna to the county budget and a billion 62 million 802 thousand 944 kuna on urban and municipal budgets. Therefore, it is doubtless that this proposed amendment of the law on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act would result in uncertain compensation and a certain reduction of income from units of local and regional or regional self-government. It should be noted that the amendments to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, which entered into force on 1 January 2007, made income tax exclusively the income of those units of local and regional self-government. It is true that 21% of income from income tax remains in the revenues of the state budget, but that same amount is planned by the same law on the expenditure side of the Ministry of Finance, which is precisely for the financing of decentralised functions, and during the year is provided to units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, income tax leaves nothing to the State because income and expenditure items are balanced on the basis of income tax. In addition, instead of units of local and regional self-government that are treated by special state concerns, or in hill-mounted areas, the state returns income tax to the citizens of those units and amounts to around 550 million kuna per year. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act also provides for a reduction of pension insurance contributions from the first pillar of 15% to 11% and the envisaged way in which these reduced incomes are compensated is rather uncertain and is linked to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance. By estimating the basic intention and motive of making and submitting this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, it is too ambitious and difficult to achieve the proposal that 5 billion kuna is coming from the capital gains tax. The position of the HDZ Club is that the already applicable Income Tax Act, that the already applicable Income Tax Act prescribes a number of tax reliefs, and that there is no need in the income tax system to introduce new tax exemptions, as this would result in non-transparent tax systems, additional difficulties in implementing positive tax rules and increasing tax collection costs. At the same time, the proposed law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act would also result in a direct reduction of income both in the state and the county, urban and municipal budgets, which would, in particular, question the effectiveness of the functioning of local and regional self-government. Therefore, the HDZ Club will not support this proposal and will not vote in favour of the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5039	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First up, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5040	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to express a few thoughts personally as a citizen of a whole series of tax reliefs, deductions with a focus on the area of special state care in which I live and a reference to the proposal to increase the untaxable base from 1600 to 1900 kuna as mayor of a unit of local self-government in the war-infringed area, more specifically the area of the town of Pakrac and about the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax on Income Act, which is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. First of all, a whole series of additional tax reliefs have been introduced in the past four years, i.e. The deductions we citizens use when submitting annual tax returns where there is indeed one satisfaction among citizens regarding tax relief, i.e. deductions. The introduction of further reliefs, and without the means provided in the budget for their consumption, is not realistic and I do not think the proposal is well prepared. Proposers at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget say it will not increase expenditure because it does not increase the maximum limit of 12000 kuna. That's not true. Here's just one simple example. If someone is making a maximum amount of relief today, for example, up to 8000 kuna during that period thanks to the new proposed reliefs, the deductions come at a maximum relief of 12000 kunas entitled to a higher tax refund on the burden of the state budget. So, the fact that the introduction of new tax relief creates new expenditures in the state budget. I'm not saying that in the coming years, there's no need to think about new tax deductions, relief for citizens. But this should be well prepared and, of course, provided additional resources for that purpose in the state budget. The second part I want to look at is an increase in the untaxable base from 1600 to 1900 kuna. I have an extremely negative opinion on this. As an executive officer in the local self-government unit, that is, the town of Pakrac, and I am sure I speak on behalf of almost all the mayors and mayors we have heard from colleagues Boris that practically all cities have been participated to a greater extent in tax revenues in their budgets. Because this would directly lead to a decrease in revenue as we heard in the state budget for 207 million kuna, in the county, i.e. Regional self-government cuts by 180 million kuna, and in cities and municipalities no less than a reduction by a billion and 62 million kuna. What does this mean specifically for local self-government and regional self-government units, for cities and municipalities that have all practically made their budgets for 2008, where incomes are, of course, planned for different projects and budget users. This would mean such a proposed reduction in the course of this year and would prevent the full normal functioning of regional and local self-government in most parts and the state budget itself especially in the war of the affected areas, i.e. areas of special state concern. By introducing this law, the local self-government unit would unfortunately only briefly participate in the funds of decentralisation that have finally been put down into the budgets of municipalities, cities, counties. Here, for all of these reasons, as much as they may have been, I underline may have been a good, sincere intention of proposing these proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5041	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5042	I thank you, Mr. President, for your colleague and colleague, just so the debate doesn't go the wrong way. This is about funds that damage the state budget, county budgets and special units of local self-government. I don't think these calculations are correct if you take into account that this legal project is related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Contributions. Because if you apply that tax code, the income tax base increases by 300 kuna and has the same effect that you're talking about here as a negative effect. Which means there are no negative effects for neither the state budget nor the county or local self-government units. The negative effect is felt only by local self-government units that do not make an average salary, only by those units. Because those municipalities and cities that don't have the average salary we've worked with on the team feel the lack of funds. And in these units local self-government is possible to achieve some lower incomes. And the simulations carried out in this law when they are also implemented in the Mandatory Contribution Act, you will see that they are being annulled. Of course, the question remains what about units of local self-government that have lower average salaries and have a significant number. Now there is again one of the dilemmas before the government, whether there is further decentralisation but there is another possibility, and that is what the SDP stresses, an increasing inequality among Croatian citizens. So a growing number of managers and others who have very significant incomes based on pay. Therefore, it is possible to introduce another rate for taxation of those present with significant incomes, and this is also the way in which additional funds for local self-government units can be resolved in part. This is something that the SDP in its second reading can propose and supplement as a proposal to damage the units of local self-government that have below average pay. And in order not to seduce you just on this bill, compare it with the previous law, and you will see that when it comes to local self-government units, there are no pluses or minuses on average, and all this was done precisely with the goal of ensuring at least a 5% increase in salary because we estimated that it would be an inflationary blow this year. And what particularly motivates us is the January data that showed that inflation is far more than 5% as much as we were trying to estimate. As regards the reliefs that we have proposed, it is evident that these are the reliefs which are primarily related to education and health, because we are constantly trying to say how important education is and how much we want Croatia to know, so that every desire for an individual to be educated, that with his knowledge that the contribution to Croatian society and I would say the competitiveness of Croatian society is then simply the amount of additional relief that needs to be provided something which is at least at this point that can be invested in the encouragement of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5043	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5044	Thank you. Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations because my colleague Linic said the projections show differently. We haven't seen these projections in the proposal, there's not a single figure or calculation from which it would be visible that it's really different, so we can't really believe it. And I'm just saying that in this case those poorest local self-government units would have just had the biggest blow to their budgets. And when it comes to the ease of knowledge and knowledge society, I would like to remind you that this item has found its significant place in the Republic of Croatia's budget this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5045	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5046	Dear Mr President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Linic, who speaks of the need for 4 billion kuna units to finance the basis of such proposed amendments and the addition of the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act, the finding of 4 billion through what the colleague says about changes in VAT, the taxation of income on capital, and additional budgetary sources, which means that all this is important and direct to the state of the budget already adopted for this year at the state level, and in the interlinking of one and the other points, it speaks significantly about the changed conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5047	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5048	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs. As regards the increase in personal deduction as an untaxable part of income from the current 1.600,00 kuna to 1.900,00 kuna, it would indeed be a certain increase in the net salary of workers and it would certainly be good to relieve taxpayers for this purpose. However, given the possible consequences for workers and citizens, I believe that the Income Tax Act should be fully prepared with full consideration of the impact of these changes on local units, and consequently normal for the citizens of these local units. It is necessary to provide for substituting revenue sources to finance local programmes. In addition to the positive effect I said, it means that the net salaries of workers would be increased without additional burden on labour costs for employers, there are also negative effects, e.g. Income tax revenues have been reduced, resulting in a cut as the tax on income is calculated. In view of the fact that income from income tax is exclusively the income of units of the district self-government of municipalities and cities, the question arises from which sources the lack of funding for their financing or will leave it to the units of the regional self-government to manage them themselves, which is precisely the new danger for citizens and workers to whom the increase in net wages will be paid back as a boomerang. For example, on the basis of a gross salary of 7 thousand kuna, what is the average of the Republic of Croatia today, it is exactly 7 thousand and 47 kuna in gross amount, the unit of the district self-government per employee with such, and if it has a higher salary even more, loses cca 95 kuna by means of an employee who has such average income. Zagreb will lose normal and more because the average salary is gross about 8 thousand 982 kuna for December 2007. The municipalities and cities will normally get rid of their citizens in a way that will increase the service prices of those companies, companies owned by them. Or some new local duties that will directly endanger the social standard of citizens. So he'll take it from his fellow citizens' pockets. Similarly, it could happen as it did according to the model of the City of Zagreb. Maybe the Rivers in one part. A drastic increase in utility prices, e.g. Or by imposing a fine for 300 kuna poverty for those who are here fighting to survive, not by their own will, they must reach the trash can to survive. Therefore, I repeat once again that this law needs to be seen and prepared responsibly and fully. Surely it would be much better to discuss that specific analysis has been given along with this law. I'm saying, it wouldn't be good for a law like this, I repeat again, because he will return as a boomerang to the workers and citizens of local self-government units. They will certainly oust those funds that we will take away from them by law, but they will again cause them harm to their fellow citizens. Therefore, I repeat, it is necessary to prepare this law a little better, more fully and more responsibly. And I think he's basically not bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5049	First, he reported for the correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5050	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague! Well, you said an incorrect statement in which units of local self-government would lose on the basis of this bill. However, in the opening letter, this bill should be seen in the proposal for a preliminary proposal, meaning in this context, and therefore at the level of the average salary, the income of local self-government units will be the same. You also said that the City of Zagreb will also lose part of the income tax in that part, so it will have to move on with other revenues. And that's also an incorrect quote. Since the City of Zagreb, which has an average salary higher than the national average, will now earn more income from the basic income tax per full income, according to this whole proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5051	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5052	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting my colleague Kunst's incorrect quote. Under the law, the state budget really loses 207 million, the county 180 million, a billion and 60 local self-government. Under the previous law, states get 207, County 208, I apologize 108, local billion 62 plus and minus zero. Therefore, these projects say there is no less for the state and local self-government budgets, because one law and the other is tied up. The problem is only in local self-government units that don't have an average salary of 7 grand. And I said, the SDP will fix it in a second solution. That's the only problem. So it's not a billion 449 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5053	Also correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5054	Mr. President! In a negative context, counterpart Kunst mentioned the city of Rijeka about the increase in municipal fees and costs on the burden of citizens. The city of Rijeka has not increased nor will it increase those prices to the burden of citizens. And the city of Rijeka has a 6.25 cut, so it's the lowest that's possible. And yet there is a very high standard communal in the city of Rijeka and all other services it provides to citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5055	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5056	Thank you very much. I raised the line to Mr. Kunst, but I will repeat now what my colleague Linic and my colleague Bernardic said. So under this law, if only this law is seen in part, then a part of the funds will be lost, but it will be obtained under the previous law. So the final equation is identical to the income of local units under both laws, because after which the taxed part of the salary will increase and income from the base of taxation. The only problem is that he also said that his colleague Linic will be below average, so where the local self-government units are with salaries below average is the income slightly lower, but we will try to make up for it by additional legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5057	Thank you. Mr. Kunst's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5058	Look, first of all, it's the previous law that we discussed before this law. And if you're looking at the analysis that I have here and you'd like everyone to have it now so you can follow it exactly as it's prepared, then you'd see that units of local self-government are losing. And that's a fact. Now. We can tie ourselves up I don't know if the previous law will be passed, but if it won't be then in principle this law remains that way and is lost by it. And at this point, I'm only discussing this law because it's like the last item of the agenda. So he's not made as a link in terms of having a unique discussion about the whole package or that in that part of the debate we could discuss then be different. I am only discussing the law which is the point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5059	Thank you. The replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5060	I'm also replicating Mr. Kunst, and I'm not hiding behind the correction of an incorrect quote because I really care about the debate and maybe it's good to have Mr. Kunst answer if he wants to. In fact, there's often a dilemma here that's going to, you see, we have the government's opinion as well. This bill would deprive the income of the fiscus of the state budget. What about county revenues, cities, municipalities? We're always worried about someone else, the third. Let's change the philosophy a little bit, and then if the worker stays longer it'll be better for the state, it'll be better for the municipality, it'll be better for the city, it'll be better for the county. I think the state in this time... Capitalism should have these measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, here I am using this opportunity that Mr. Mladneo is here, that good taxes are being made, not that the tax administration goes there to make someone by some principle of other nature and other motives. I think you know what I'm talking about. And then that would already be a minor problem. Secondly, to stop our country from being a paradise for foreign capital that we all kind of suffer from, for there it will not be so merciful that our workers will be an auxiliary workforce to them. We have as a state to make such rules of the game to protect the worker, the man who ultimately creates all the values. I think it is necessary, alone in this time of growth of unemployment and reduced wages, pensions and all that awaits us, and also for something that we are not all to blame in terms of both the world market and so on. It's our duty and our responsibility to all of us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5061	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5062	Mrs. Anticevic, in any case, it all sounds convenient, but if we are discussing this law right now, and I am only discussing this law, the fact is that cities and municipalities will lose. They certainly won't lose it, the team will get back together, but they'll look for ways to get what they lose somehow. That's a fact. I merely cited the example of Zagreb, for example. Most likely, other cities would do so and municipalities with some measures, they are best placed to have some of their additional local taxes or through services which, through the services of companies which they own companies make that difference and that is the fact. And then it's a boomerang coming back. I agree with you that it would all be convenient, then it would be one package that we could discuss nicely and see where, in fact, it doesn't go to the benefit of employers, the workers get, the state doesn't lose, it would all be convenient, but I am discussing this law as one separate whole that is proposed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5063	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Darling Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5064	Well, here's the thing, my colleague Kunst, coming from a union scene, has been a little bit weirder in this law on what income he's going to be to local and regional self-government than how he solves in one part of the employee's salary. We've already said that this law is actually supposed to look into the context and the previous law. The fact that they didn't argue together, it doesn't matter, it's the paper of the law that needs to be looked at as a whole. So it is said that only local and regional self-government units that have lower salaries will be left without a portion of their income. However, we do have a so-called state. The Alignment Fund, which, with certain criteria in certain units of local self-government and regional, is, of course, allocated certain funds as transfers from the state budget. There are different possibilities for additional collection of fiscal resources, tax resources. So it's in the first row to cover those incomes that aren't taxed today. We can continue to go with progressive income taxation, we already have tens of thousands of people making up to 100,000 kunas of income, and they pay a maximum tax rate of 45% at a certain height, above a certain level of income. So we can continue to go with progressive rates and thus tax high incomes in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5065	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5066	Mrs. Zgrebec, look out I didn't say that this proposal of yours was bad. I said it's good, but it goes to harm until you fully suggest, that there be no boomerang for those in principle who would get something more without coming back to them as a boomerang that should be solved. So exactly the union's dilemma was, and that's why the minimum wage law, unfortunately, hasn't yet been experienced, part of it and therefore, light days because there were among the unions thinking about the non-taxable part of income that it increased by a thousand... 1,000 kuna, so there was just a debate about what cities, units of local self-government, municipalities would do, how these funds would get in the way and not come back as boomerang and there was one stone of interference, unfortunately something was finally agreed between the trade unions about it, but for a year and a half the same debate took place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I am in, but give me something entirely suggested then. Let's not suggest, we propose a law by law, then we have to connect. Do some analysis, get him to sit down and get him to sit down, so no one's against the pay increase for the workers so he doesn't go to harm the employers and the state doesn't lose. So who would be against it, that one must be crazy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5067	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5068	I thank the president, my colleagues and my colleagues. In order to avoid doubt, in the opening statement of this law, the first paragraph reads: "The increase of the untaxable tax base on a thousand kuna would not monthly reduce the revenues of the state budget from the basis of the Income Tax Act because the amendments to the Mandatory Insurance Law would ensure a reduction of the MIO I pillar and thus directly increase the total tax, tax bases and all taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of which that income is realised." Thus, if this Law were to be adopted and the first law would not be passed, the solution would not be good. That's what we agree on. But they were proposed at the same time by the SDP club and one and the other law, both. In the reasons we are talking about this very possible negative effect and we say as SDP, we have solved this problem so that the initiatives of cities and municipalities do not come to find missing resources in another way. By completing these proposals, we have come to the conclusion that the problem in many municipalities and cities that have lower averages and we appreciate that in the second reading and we are able to solve this, which means that where the higher averages of cities and municipalities will also achieve higher incomes under these two laws and therefore we need to protect cities with lower average salaries, because this is essential, especially if we are still looking at the area of special state care. And that's something we'll solve, try to solve in the second reading. But one and the other draft laws are ahead of you, we're discussing them separately, but in reasons we've been committed to trying to make it very clear that there are no problems left, at least under this law. When we talk about that first law, yes, we say remains a heavy burden before the government, before all of us how to find a model of additional taxation of citizens who would have to take over some of the social problems in the Republic of Croatia that so far no one has introduced in Croatia. They're new problems, they're new difficulties, but it's waiting for us. Therefore, talk about capital gains taxes because they are citizens who earn additional income or live on capital income, not on their salary, but they must in some way start to participate in solving our problems, such as pensions, such as health insurance problems. And that's what wasn't worked out in our first law, and that's what we think we're going to have to deal with soon enough. But as far as this law is concerned, the SDP has offered a solution so as not to hit a standard of municipal and public service prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5069	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5070	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Only two allegations if I can. As far as we're concerned, there won't be any shortages if the first and second laws are passed. I think so. The analysis was made on the basis of only the second law, one and a half billion which is, but if the first law were to be adopted and all 4 billion kunas were to be converted into income with an average income tax rate of around 12%, that would again be about 500 million dollars in additional taxes and a billion and a half is new. So that would already be one particular deficit and more of the relief we have that would increase that deficit. That's about the first one. I'm talking, I'm building on exact amounts to this, but that's pretty much what it was. As for Ms. Anticevic, all she could say is that the tax administration is still keeping an eye on the payment of income, that the revenues paid by the tax administration for the past year compared to the previous year by more than 15%, that the tax administration is following with a much more legal person, businesses, especially large companies, especially foreign companies. So 15% is not small and local administration and self-government units, especially here we have a lot of mayors who know well that the collection and tax revenues of income for the past year are 19% higher than it was in the previous year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5071	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5072	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the appearance of citizens, this bill can seem acceptable and attractive, which is to increase personal deductions from a thousand to a thousand 900 kunas because it is 300 kunas or an increase of 18.75% which everyone knows and can calculate. I say at first glance because it's just like that and only at first glance is a real concrete calculation, on any sample shows a different picture or gives far less benefits to a citizen with an average salary. Here's a concrete example. If we take a single salary in Zagreb, a net payment of about 5 thousand 450 kuna would be 8 thousand, a contribution of 600, a income of 6 thousand and 400, a personal deduction of 900, a tax base of 4000 500, a tax per rate of 15% 480 kuna, a tax per rate of 25% 325 kuna, a total tax of 805 kuna, a tax of Zagreb 18% 144.90 kuna. So the total tax and the tax of 949.90 kuna, and that's an increase if we look at that tax base of a thousand 600, a thousand 900, 1.65%. And I agree with Mr. Kunst that these laws must be seen separately rather than somehow united because there is no projection of the financial either one or the other proposal. Therefore, as shown in the actual calculation, the worker did not receive an estimated amount of 300 kuna or an increase in its salary of only 1.65%. On the other hand, the damages incurred in the current situation by the state and the budget of the county or cities and municipalities would be of greater benefit and would put local administrations and self-government in question this year's budget. According to a simulation submitted by the government in its reasoning, the budget deficit would be over 200 million for the state budget, for the counties over 180 million and for cities and municipalities over a billion kuna. Furthermore, the tax reliefs used by citizens according to the current assessment will amount to around 2 billion kunas to return to citizens, which will practically reduce income generated from income tax in 2008. This means, in particular, that the budgets of those beneficiaries of the budget if the proposed amendments are accepted only in this year can be calculated by less than € 3.4 billion. The applicant did not specify a source of revenue to cover the proposed reliefs and exemptions, but it is declared that this income deficit will be compensated by savings in the budget and by taxation of capital revenues. And I'm asking you what budget savings it's like there's extra funds in it or in them when we all know how much and how much pressure there is on budgets and when everyone's asking for just more. To whom in this situation to reduce or abolish funds and to which items in the budget to save, it does not say anywhere. Secondly, in order to tax capital revenues, the necessary resources need to be modified by other laws, the Law on profit tax and accompanying regulations, and thus the effects of these measures would be significantly lower. As far as tax breaks are concerned, I think there are enough in the existing tax system but so far have not been enough use to confirm and data on the number of tax returns submitted that grow from year to year but even more and constantly increasing amount of money returning to citizens after processing tax returns. In addition, the expansion of tax reliefs to other areas, professional training, specialisation and others would make the tax system intransparent and its implementation and control complicated and ineffective. I therefore support the Government's view that this proposal is not accepted but that there is the possibility of further analysis and development of the proposal and that they are partly incorporated into the Income Tax Act when it is aligned with the acquiss of the European Union at the end of this year. Finally, there is no impression that individual proposals for amendments and addition of laws coming from the opposition, especially the SDP, are working to say that they had a lot of proposals but were easily rejected by HDZ. I think that the bill's proposals, regardless of whose sides they come from, would have to be done professionally, studioically and reasonedly keeping primary account of the benefits that they will bring to society and citizens and they must be harmonised between all interested parties. Otherwise, we will have a forest to amend and supplement laws in which no one will be able to manage and their application will be slow and control ineffective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5073	Thank you. Replica Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to replicate Mrs. Majdenic. Now we've heard one more thing since morning. So, we propose just to propose, that these are proposals that are not well-delivered, analysed, etc. I have to say no. I mean, we've done a simulation here and now just before Mr. Secretary of State told you that there's no comparison on incomes that will be additionally based on income tax if the first law is passed. So I'm telling you that we've simulated and there won't be any losses for local units if the first and second laws are passed. That simulation was made on that basis. You said and that bill is probably true that the salary in Zagreb will jump by not knowing how much one and some percent. Yes, but again, when both laws are combined, we have calculated that the salaries of all employees in the Republic of Croatia will average 5.75%. So please don't insult us. We did very well. We have suggested something that we think is feasible and that will ultimately be useful to our citizens. I would ask you, Mr. President, to ask fellow MPs not to disprove the suggestions of other colleagues from this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5075	I call on you not to disrespect the suggestions and not to imitate the countless examples we listened to yesterday, etc., but rather to be correct and appreciate the efforts of colleagues to propose this law. Replica. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5076	Dear President, I'm really surprised when people come to this assembly, they forget maybe some kind of story of their own. Here's a colleague Majdenic says we don't need additional tax reliefs especially for education. We are constantly talking about the society of knowledge, and that is one phrase that has entered every politician's dictionary. But when something can really be done to become a society of knowledge, then we reject it as a rule. Croatia has 300,000 highly educated people. In Croatia, a new 300 doctors of science are created annually, and we need 700. But let's let the Doctors of science go now. Lifelong learning is something without which you can no longer imagine the development of a society, so neither Croatia, and I say employers are most often not interested in enabling foreign language learning, nor in enabling further improvement in some area of interest. So in 2005, 528 kuna was spent on household education. That's 0.76% of total expenditure. Will that make us a society of knowledge? We won't. So why make it impossible for people to invest in their education and get a tax relief for it. I really don't understand it!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5077	Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5078	Well, Mr. Representative, I'm certainly not against professional training. I just want the income tax to be applied as transparently as possible. The fact is that those who are weaker in property use tax relief to the end. This kind of tax relief usually suits those who have higher incomes. I don't see any reason why there wasn't one proposal, so those who are less in property to have some extra tax relief. But those who are bigger, who have, say, right here, I don't know any parliamentary representatives. Why would they have that tax relief? Tell me why. There's no excuse. And as for our Government, it stimulates education and employers are stimulated to send workers to education and professional training, education in accordance with the Law on State Support for Education and Education, “National Journal” 109/2007 and 134/2007, as this results in certain tax reliefs. Therefore, the government takes care of education, and again when I tell you that those who have a good salary that should not have a tax relief for, but themselves, are fine professionally perfected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5079	The replica of Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5080	Dear Mrs Majdenic, you said, and you better quoted the government's report because in your debate, you mainly read the government's report to introduce new tax reliefs resulting in a transparent tax system. Can you explain to me what is untransparent by introducing new tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5081	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that it's past ten minutes' notice half-minutes ago. And the replica of Mrs. Representative and Vice President Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5082	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I actually want to pollomize with the thesis that laws are being written to create an impression that there's a lot of work to be done. Maybe some people do that. But behind, basically this law and all the budgets and everything that we've been talking about here today is an irrefutable fact, which is an extremely large rise in prices and a decline in human living standards. That was why it started looking for a solution. Believe me, it wouldn't take so long, it'd be ailing because we don't have SDP with all the information we need to make good simulations. But here you see it worked out if not in the kuna exact simulations, then approximate simulations to solve one big and serious problem of people and those who have more and less. And speaking of tax relief, they can't be a substitute for poor social welfare. Tax reliefs primarily have the task of stimulating citizens to finance some of their needs that are important for the overall development of society. As counterpart Jovanovic said earlier, investing people in health care, education, giving for this tax relief guarantee is that in the future we will have no problem with the growth of the gross social product with the structure of the qualifications of the workforce and with everything that stops economic growth. But that's just the extra I wanted to say. The main thing I wanted to do was to pollomeze is that these laws aim and basically their production is a major and elemental problem for the citizens of this country: price rise, drop in living standards, low GDP growth and high inflation growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5083	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5084	If someone's taking care of the standard of citizens, then the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader. That's for sure. You can't say that this government doesn't care about social welfare. So, to those who are at risk. But these suggestions you suggested here are amazing. Touch health care, touch retirement and say that it will somehow make up for itself without any concrete simulation. It just doesn't stand. You're going to capital gains like this, some revenue that could be one year can be extremely large, but who says next year, that the number of transactions on the capital market will be large. So to touch pension and health insurance, to cut down concrete incomes there, I really think it's irresponsible. One simulation would say, but it means some revenue, and this is what it says, capital tax. How much is that? Where's that simulation? I think you're playing too much of this important, and I can tell you that if we're going to look at citizens' standards, then health and retirement is extremely important. That's the most important thing. Every man wants good health insurance. So I don't think these proposals are good, they touch what you shouldn't, and I'm saying you obviously don't have any better suggestions, you're giving this, and I think people are going to realize that it's not the right solution, nor is it, nor are these proposals going towards increasing citizens' standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5085	Thank you. It's Mrs. Maria Lugaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5086	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll just talk about a part of the new tax relief in this law, because we don't seem to talk about it enough. I may have naively believed that the positive and good proposals proposed here in the Croatian Parliament, which just as my colleague Jovanovic said earlier, are going to the length of what is full of mouths for all of us, the knowledge societies will receive consensual support here in the Parliament. But it obviously doesn't matter what is being proposed here, but obviously it's important who is proposing, that some kind of confusion is in some hypothetical situation for someone from the HDZ to think of something like that they would listen to all day long. The first tax relief compared to the kind of extension of the existing tax relief that we propose is an extension of the use of tax relief for health services. During this time, tax returns are often reported to me personally during February, but also to us in the club of representatives of citizens who justifiably warn about one illogicality. Citizens using for themselves a tax relief for health care, those accounts that could not have been made in the mandatory health insurance system that paid for the health care services themselves, can benefit from this as a tax relief. If, in some cases, these taxpayers have a sick child who maintains, they cannot use a relief for the treatment of their child. For me, I can't, for my underage child. It is a huge injustice that affects the really most vulnerable part of the population, i.e. sick children, and we suggest that the simple relief for health care is extended that if a resident, therefore, the taxpayer can use the tax relief for himself, that it can also be used for a child who supports it. I think that's the elemental logic and elemental honesty and justice to accept that proposal. Secondly, we propose introducing tax reliefs for education. The two objectives are in some way tax reliefs as I see them again by being guided by elemental logic, with this first tax relief team now prevailing, which is that they are in some way social measures. Mrs Antunovic said well that tax reliefs should not, in fact, be a substitute for social policy, unfortunately they still are. We have reliefs that enable housing to be resolved, we have reliefs that enable health care to be resolved, and they are in some way all social character. Another type of tax relief is the purpose of encouraging citizens, citizens Mrs Majdenic, not entrepreneurs, but citizens for ourselves, to encourage investment what the state considers a desirable investment. We send citizens a message which is a desirable investment for their future. We want to send them a message as a state, and I think we should send them, that investment in education is desirable. We've already heard the data here, and we've written it in our bill of law, that a family spends less than 528 kuna per year on education than on a phone bill per month. By doing so, colleagues and colleagues cannot become either a state or a society of knowledge, and it is ours to ask ourselves, of course, as representatives and advocates, what we have done to encourage citizens to invest in their education and education of their children. Picture one why we're proposing these reliefs. The younger person is 25-26 years old, she's a college graduate, she's got some high-end training, we'll say she's a teacher's course, she's a graduate teacher or a language teacher, she's got a job at school, there's a lot of underpaid people at school, she's working for a salary less than the average salary in the state, and she decides to improve further. He decides to enroll in a postgraduate study. It's good for her personally, it's good for kids she teaches to, it's good for the state. Her employer, which is the state, that person and that employee will never pay for her postgraduate studies. Never. We suggest that this amount of expenses of a postgraduate study that per semester reaches 10 thousand kuna, depending on the study, but more than 5 less than 10, enters as a tax relief. You're against it. Second scene. For years, the person standing at the employment office and unemployed has decided to pay the information descriptor course. We saw in the debate on the budget that the Croatian Employment Institute is planning to informally describe several hundred people, everything. You decide to finance that course yourself and pay yourself, it costs several thousand kunas, the person is unemployed. We suggest that when she finds that money somewhere, those costs are recognised as tax relief. You're against it. Parents decide, since we still do not have enough foreign languages at school, they decide to enroll their child in a foreign language school so as to enable him to have better living competencies, educational competences, to be more easily employed on the labour market tomorrow, especially in the common market of the European Union. These foreign language courses cost several thousand kunas, more than an average salary. We suggest that it be a tax relief. You're against it. You're against introducing tax benefits for education. These are just some of the illustrations. We will discuss it many more times in the Parliament, I am almost certain that you will all have a full mouth of society and state of knowledge, how important it is to us, how important it is to us, but a continuous decision by decision you do not accept such proposals. I will remind colleagues who have not been here in the last term, and I think it is necessary to remind some who have sat here in the previous term, that this SDP has already submitted. We submitted that same proposal in the first half of 2004. The government then rejected it with a very interesting explanation, which was about to go that, here's what these SDPs want, but they write all sorts of proposals that aren't good, complete, quality, but that's why we have a very good government that supports it in principle and in the idea that the government will propose its entire proposals. It's been four years, one proposal from the government hasn't come, and now you want us to believe the government when the government report says they're going to consider it. Four more years, and all the time we're gonna talk about being a state and a society of knowledge. In the government's opinion there are a lot of interesting things, I'd like a representative of the government to explain it to me. He says we can't introduce new tax reliefs because we already have a lot of relief. In fact, we do not have tax bonds for education of reliefs that can be used by residents. We have for employers, we have for entrepreneurs, for residents and citizens we have no tax relief. I don't know how to add pears and apples. We here, the government in its report collects pears and apples. And then he says there's no need to introduce new tax reliefs, because that would result in an intransparent tax system. If we already have a relief for health care, for these investment in life insurance, for solving housing issues, if we add another one that fits into that 12 thousand kuna censorship annually, which would have been non-transparent, and that so far has been transparent. Then the government says it would cause further difficulties in implementing the rules. To challenge the tax administration of additional difficulties. Honestly, as representatives, if there is a consensus here, and I think there should be a consensus about it, if there is an agreement that knowledge is strategically important to us, I think we can all agree and say that we believe that the tax administration is capable enough to organise and that there is no difficulty, that it simply organises a different way of processing. In a situation where everything is connected to computers, you have to wear one of those same papers every year to the tax administration. We've now filed annual tax returns, so let's use technology a little bit, with a different organisation of work so they won't find it complicated, i.e. an increase in tax collection costs. I repeat, we're adding tax reliefs that fall within the same 12 thousand kuna censorship, we're not adding new ones, although you are, this HDZ government has already reduced them. We had 12 plus 12 plus 12. The government cut it down. It's only 12 now. It's particularly interesting, some colleagues and colleagues have already spoken as a super counter argument, as employers have, are stimulated to send workers. We're not talking about employers. Although they're stimulated, it's best they're not. Here we are talking about the need for citizens to be stimulated to invest in education. I repeat in the end, and I will conclude my discussion, somewhere I hope it will be wise in this House to support it. It is simply a matter of smartness and the Croatian future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5087	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5088	You say, Madam, that it is not fair for the taxpayer to have health insurance benefits and such services for himself, and that he does not have for his young child to support, although he has a relief for him, but not for all health services, or his health needs. In early January, the GPK agency announced that 75% of households had extraordinary health expenditures, except for health insurance not covered. It is an alarming situation, and this colleague Lugaric is not just, but is out of every logic and mind to give the adult who takes care of that child, especially for teeth. Well, the older one doesn't have to chew, but the kid has to. Well, that's out of your mind. So give me the men. At first, I didn't think that such a law would have to exist, although for a long time, unfortunately, and we're all a little guilty of it. I'm saying this is not the point right now. I am indeed and has long existed in our legislation, such a nebulosis and it is high time to at least fix it. Well, we can't justify that to our citizens. People think it's some kind of confusion, let's all look, so we see, sometimes we discover what's been going on for some years which is not normal, which is beyond logic, which doesn't get any political color, option, commitment to different visions and approaches, budgets, tax policy to be justified by sound logic and common sense. Let's at least make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5089	Thank you. Although I think it's hard to stay alive without it, but the infusion can be bridged, for example. Here you go, ma'am, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5090	Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic, I think the elderly must chew, but you're really right when you say that when we're older, we allow them to use their teeth to fix it and the children they still support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5091	Replica, Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5092	Dear Mr. President, here's what I'm saying, and that's that this government, the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, has been constantly investing in science and education since its arrival in power. Every year the funds are increasing, and we really want this to be a country, a Croatian country of knowledge. What you're about, which is a relief to education, I can only say that you didn't get it right. I'm certainly not against relief, but I want to say that in this way, this is inappropriate and that the relief must be well integrated into the tax system. So, I'm not against it, you got it all wrong, and we did. This government and this parliamentary majority are certain to invest in health and education, in science and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5093	Answer, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5094	Three things. The answer to the argument that the government continuously increases investment in education is simply to increase investment in all other sectors. The state budget in 2003 was 75 billion, now 110 or 111, and the increase in investment for education compared to the increase in other sectors is by no means different, although it is even smaller. It's even smaller, though. Secondly, I hope when you have said that you are not against education relief, that within a very soon period of time, we are obviously all in the SDP, and we do not know within a very short time that here you will initiate that the HDZ Club will propose a law that introduces tax relief for education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5095	Thank you. And Mr. Boris Matkovic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5096	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Lugarić, I have nothing personal against your proposal solely for the reason that I have worked as a professor in high school for 25 years and understands about the problem you are trying to talk about, including in this respect. But I can't agree with you in the sense that you're relieved, let's just say you've set an example for a postgraduate study. The school has, for example, a high school quite in its own way, in its own systematicization that it is quite enough for me to finish high school and teach my class. So that's quite enough. If I want postgraduate, then I should pay for it. It doesn't pay anywhere in the world. Well, those are the remains of some system we've been through. And that's what you need to pay for yourself. You'll pay for it all, you'll leave later, and the school's no use to you. It's enough for her to have what you have through high-tech equipment. It's life. That's for sure. You're talking about some foreign language class. So you see my child, I have three children all speaking English, no one went to classes because there were no courses in Vrgorec. But since preschool education, through primary school, if they have high-quality teachers, they could have perfected it through programs. So in that sense, in any case, I have nothing against what you're saying. But I'm on the side, colleague Majdenic, obviously you didn't understand something. And I have nothing personal against you... You think we're against it? Oh, no. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5097	Answer by Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5098	Dear colleague! If you don't mind, you will vote for this proposal. I don't think there's in between. There are sayings in the people for that, but good. But then let's go back to these postgraduates for teachers, etc. To speak in the 21st century that a degree of education is sufficient for teachers to study and study over the fact that someone with a scientific degree or professional degree of master of science came to work either in a primary school or in a high school is insane. In collective agreements and for primary and secondary education, you have therefore an increase in salary for people who work with the scientific degree of the Master of Science in primary and secondary school precisely because such well-educated people are stimulated to come to work at school. That's exactly why I'm a colleague. Oh, no, and you're looking at someone else's head in the first place? Well, I guess we want a good education. And that's what the ministry sees, because it's in collective agreements and that's the possibility that it predicts. And it further stimulates people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5099	Let's avoid... Please! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not allowed without a question and I'd like to pray that these, uh, decorative expressions are crazy and they're actually avoiding it so that no one feels hurt and so, my suggestion. Do you understand, ma'am? This use of crazy stuff and it's not exactly like that. Thank you. We have a correction by Mrs. Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5100	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament! I would correct Mrs. Lugaric's incorrect allegations that she is, and warns us that tax relief should not be spent as a substitute for social policy. It is simply incorrect, Madam MPs, because this very Croatian government has shown us that it takes care of every age group of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as it has developed and has enabled models of local and regional self-government units to take care of its socially endangered citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5101	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5102	Your Honor, Mr. President! Article 209(4) has been injured, as an agent who says the representative can correct the incorrect statement of the facts presented. I'm just the opposite, ma'am, saying that one of the purposes of tax relief is to be a social measure, and you're correcting me to, you're saying that I said something quite the opposite. And please don't use this institute to correct the allegations again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5103	That's what I'm still worried about, and as you know, I'm going through countless of yours and similar corrections. And the appeal to Article 209, the lady, on your claim, made her claim. ... She told the claim. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now go to a lawsuit, some debate here who's what and how he said, please don't bring us into such situations because then we can just waste time and infertile controversy about it. With great expectations I expect to change the Rules of Procedure and rationalise this House will certainly reflect on the state budget because we will spend less time, so we will be more rational in our discussions. I'm asking you nicely here we go further on, now has your debate Mr. Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5104	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, the Proposer proposes amendments to the taxation of income, which primarily means an increase in the relief for taxpayers of income tax. And in the second row, a blow to the budget or the introduction of new taxes. The applicant shall amend Article 36. The income tax law requires an increase in the basic personal deduction from a thousand and 600 to a thousand and 900 kuna. In addition, an extension of tax incentives for real costs for the health needs of dependent family members as well as the cost of paying for a postgraduate study, foreign language courses, information education courses is required. It's all nice and beautiful and everybody wants me to get bigger wages, bigger benefits. However, where did the funds come from? Even in point 3 of the amendment proposal, the law states. The implementation of this proposal does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. And logic requires that if we increase the relief, isn't it logical that tax revenues will be lower and additional resources in the budget need to be provided? In order to ensure the same income from income tax and that no additional appropriations should really be provided in the budget, the proponent in point 2 of the proposal requires a reduction in the contribution to pension insurance from the first pillar of 15 to 11 and thus ensuring an increase in the tax base that is taxed on income tax. How do you get below four percentage points at the mandatory pension insurance position on the employer's burden, but so the employer won't be burdened anymore than now? The health contribution is reduced by four percentage points from 15 to 11%. In this way, there may be no less tax on income, there will be no shortage of compulsory pension contributions, but there is a lack of contribution to health insurance and the fact that it is in point 3 of the proposal of as many as four billion kunas. Of course, we are now coming to the need to secure the necessary resources in the budget to increase income tax relief. Of course, just by overcoming from one budget position to another, from one to the third, there is an assumption that additional funds in the budget are not needed because of the increase in income tax relief. By accepting increased tax reliefs and by not introducing new tax or contribution, it would mean a far greater deficit of the state budget, which at this time is unacceptable. Finally, the applicant in point 3 requests the introduction of a income tax on capital, which suggests that he himself is aware of the inaccuracy that there is no need to secure additional funds from the budget. Additional funds are always needed if we reduce one revenue side of the budget if we do not reduce the expenditure side at the same time. Everything else is a bigger budget deficit. I do not personally accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act. At the moment, there are no funds from which the lack of funds in the budget could be offset by the adoption of this Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Income Tax Act other than the introduction of new taxes. I'm not about introducing new taxes in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5105	Thank you. Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5106	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I've already spoken on behalf of the MPs' club, but here's after the debate and hearing different opinions, different observations, replicas, corrections of incorrect allegations I felt the need once again and individually debated in one way that may be somewhat different from the usual. The draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act that we have here on benches ahead of us can say that it really contains social note and human idea in its own intention, which is the increase in net wages to the lowest paid employees in Croatia. However, I am convinced that every one of us sitting in these benches wants employees' salaries to be higher and especially for those who are the lowest, if they work at the same time under the most difficult conditions of commitment and business. But it should be borne in mind that the primary task of the legislative authority is to create and maintain a favourable legislative environment, which will, in agreement with the rest primarily economically and then also enable the technological, cultural, social environment, economic factors and promote economic activities and achieve the preconditions in which economic operators will have the opportunity to develop their business activities. I think it is a legal or legislative environment in Croatia, that it is not ideal for the development of economic activity, but that it is extremely favourable for the achievement and payment of decent salaries to those economic operators who do so. I also think that the reasons for low wages are primarily those lowest multiple and extremely layered. Personally, I do believe that several times and publicly speaking that the net salary is below 4 thousand kunas is an unworthy man of the 21st century and that with such wages no one can be proud but first the employer who pays those salaries. And here we ignore the most important thing, and these are employers because responsibility and social and legal wages are on the employer, because labor contracts that are determined and the amount of wages are concluded between employees and employers. It is undeniable that there are legal assumptions in Croatia that allow employers to increase their minimum wage without additional staff expenditure. In fact, only one example of the reason for the extremely low salaries of individual employee structures can be increased by redistributing within the fund and the total cost of all the employees in the organisation within the already existing fund. It is unnatural, economically unwarranted and unethical in the same business organisations to have so-called ". the production structure of employees who have a net salary of 2 thousand kuna and hundreds at the same time, hundreds in the same business organisation of manager and gourds, etc. Managers with hundreds of thousands of kuna expenditures per month or with salaries significantly higher than the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister and many managers in the Western and European highly decorated environments. Personally, I was the director of a large company where they also had low wages but where the highest salary was 15 thousand kuna and the lowest three thousand kuna. Today, after five, six years in the same environment, these lowest wages are also three thousand kunas but there are 70 and something, I think five six new new young quasi managers who have paid more than 40,000 kuna. He well noted an economic scientist from Germany who said that it doesn't matter what the employee's salary is but that the most important thing is how much the employee costs the organization. And the monthly cost of many in the organization is too much. Because the cost includes expensive cars and the costs of the national team and net wages and so on. official travels, which are actually more like hedonistic travels, cost significantly more than the European standard. I'm going to give another example where there's room to raise the salaries of the worst-paid employees. It is known that the cost side of business organizations includes a lot of things that do not belong there, so it is not a place of nature, but there are also payments for the shares of those companies that are managed and staffed by 70, 80% of the total number of employees are kept on the lowest and unacceptable salaries. This gap between impact and wage levels is a huge space for raising the most vulnerable standards. This is what I wanted to point out only because it seems to me that a part of the employees in Croatia are actually unwarrantedly focusing on the state and the political environment and ignoring the most important segment and these are employers. I am personally against the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act because I always generally support the systematic resolution of any observed problem. And this is one big problem in Croatia, and that is why I am for its systematic and systematic solution. No reduction in contributions by four percentage points may thus have a direct effect would not have, because we are also aware of the mentality of employers in Croatia that every situation tries to use only to increase profits and not for employees. So let's remember that it was also in this House and the debate was about reducing VAT to newspaper releases and just being used to increase profits. This is not what the employees felt, although 12 percentage points were reduced. So I'm saying that once again since this is just one single approach, one segment that affects a big and complex problem, I'm just doing it for reasons not to accept this law. But it was indeed time, that the time had come to deal with this more seriously and systematically in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5107	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5108	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, I'll have to agree with you twice. The first thing you said was that the cost of spending companies for the rolling stock is a lot higher than the salary for the employees. I agree here, and I agree that employees' salaries are at 2000 and 4,000 kuna levels. And here I agree, and because I agree with that, I would like you to agree with me, that is, with a part of us who think that just encouraging education is a necessary condition for requalification, transition and job mobility is a necessary condition for people who are employed to get a higher salary. And in the spirit of it, I would like you to support the proposal at least in this part of education. I will remind you that in 2004, it was the last amendment to the Tax Liberation Act, and it is related to the fact that since 1.1.2005, the total mass of tax exemptions that can be consumed by an individual from 48000 kuna is reduced to 12,000 kuna. So, in 2005, it was reduced four times and precisely in the spirit of already reducing that total mass four times, I appeal now that this part that is related to education is installed in tax relief so that people can get as best and as easily employed as possible from that base as they are more educated. As for the proposal, the second part of the tax base proposal is closely related to this previous law. So either you vote together for both laws or you reject both laws. The fact is that the 2008 budget has already been made, that certain items have been embedded in it. But I wish you and I would think, as we think, that you might start to apply it from 1.1.2009. It's never too late for a good proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5109	Thank you. Answer Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5110	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I already said in my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club that the reliefs you have proposed for education already have business organisations and all institutions, i.e. organisations. They make it easier for that extra education, and they are the most needed people who are being educated. So there is no need then and individually when this tax relief can be used by organisations. And why I still can't accept it. I'd just like to repeat that I support in principle everything that seeks to improve the standards of any individual, the most endangered that we understand each other. But not a partial solution, but a systematic solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5111	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5112	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, thank you for participating in the debate under this bill. And I think there's a lot we could use from your discussions to prepare a second reading if the law is adopted in this first reading. When we talk about these proposals that came from your side then it is evident that because of the huge number of people in companies who use their positions and make high incomes, disproportionate to the average incomes of workers directly employed in production or in trade and that there is a clear thinking of a new rate that will go with additional tax burdens on exactly the team that gets above some ratios one to ten, one to twelve, that it is evident that the new tax rate is something that the answer could be given and in this way I would say detimise for such unfounded high wages. On the other hand, in this entire debate, it is evident that this lowest base which is less than four years present in our solutions, the untaxable basis of 1600 kuna is something that is evident that should be changed. We have also proposed that 1900 base as a non-taxable and for the reasons that we have in some way tied to a previous act that talked about 300 kuna increase in the average salary that we around think we should secure if we want to mitigate the inflation rate of 5.7%. And then there's this calculator. I believe that a far better-quality proposal would be to tie it to the lowest salary the government and trade unions now negotiate. Because obviously that's an important question, too. Why? Not just because of these, I'd say quasi managers who don't care about employees at all, but about their profits and high wages. But it is evident that in Croatia we also have activities, economic activities that they do not bear I would say slightly higher wages, so it is a constant work I would say to governments and trade unions and employers which is the lowest wage and where the lowest wage would be. So let's be aware that the stronger position and government in these negotiations would be 1900 kuna as some kind of base. Because, you know, this is how employers start your negotiations but 1600. What the unions say is too high. The government must understand, in order to be stronger in the negotiations, that the untaxed part of the salary must be slightly higher in order for the union and government's negotiating position to be higher than the lowest wage employers. So try to understand we're going to have to coordinate that part because we haven't coordinated it in four years. 2004. Sanader's government currently changed to low inflation by 100 kuna. It is evident that with this inflation and negotiations at minimum wage, it is important to correct this more significantly. We were a little surprised that the draft budget didn't come to this, but it's obvious that this year we have to deal with it. For be assured that there will be heavy negotiations on minimum wages without resolution and the lowest, or non-taxable part of the salary. And that is why we believe and see from your discussions that it is not questionable at all, but it is now questionable how to resolve the problem especially the problem of funding units of local self-government if we are not going to change the Law on Mandatory Contribution. If we don't go, then it'll be a problem raising it, but it's necessary. In that part here I think that the second reading can complement these proposals and that in some way it can be expected to produce some results of the government's negotiations, employers and trade unions around the lowest wage, so it will somehow be put in line to the lowest. When we talk about tax reliefs, I don't think that's just a big expense to the state. They're not. But first of all, there are messages for me, the tax collector. Because this is also a positive way for each of Croatia's citizens to be disciplined towards tax returns, to be interested in regular tax returns, to have some incentive for that part. That's where you mentioned yourself that employers and quasi-managers, let's not all get thrown into it, irresponsible. Don’t expect that one to worry about getting a better education for the worker. In such cases, the worker must do so, the worker himself must make sure that with new education he can change such an employer, let him have that opportunity. It is therefore evident that we still cannot be happy I would say with relations between us as legislators, but also with employers' unions and that we have a lot of misunderstandings, a lot of problems, a lot of deaf people, and at that point it is the need for us parliamentarians to try to change our employers ourselves, but in order to do so they must be further educated and that is why it is important. And about the other part when we say that health care should be extended to the family of the taxpayer, I think it's just one correction, and that's why we don't think it's a problem to support that part. Or, at the very least, if this proposal does not go through, we expect the government itself to do so, and in this year, we will prepare for citizens to be able to have tax returns for next year with their increased interest in health investments, health care and investment in additional life education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5113	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Looks like it's up to you to decide tomorrow. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Looks like it's up to you to decide tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5117	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Let me draw you closer to the Ethics Committee's report in short lines. Therefore, the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education was established on 6 February 2006 on the basis of Article 112(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and has nine members. Based on paragraph 2. The law on scientific activity was chosen by the members themselves by the president and the vice president. In the period described above and in accordance with Article 6 thereof, The Rules of Procedure of the Committee, three members, requested a resolution. They resigned. A more accurate member who was elected president of the board has requested a resolution after the founding session. His replacement, who is a representative of the same university, was also elected president, and he announced his resignation after the second, and served after the third session of the Committee. His departure as chairman of the Committee selected the previous vice president. These members explained their resignations by significantly increasing their scientific and educational obligations at the university of origin. The third member resigned in late 2007, due to significant health problems, which was accepted at last week's session of parliament. The Rules of Procedure of the Ethics Committee were adopted at the meeting on 3 July 2006, and the ethical code at the meeting on 13 November 2006. During the period from the draft committee until the adoption of the Ethics Code, the Committee took the cases but did not process them, report or give its opinions to them, except in the broadest context. In accordance with Article 112(3) of the Law, it is the task of the Committee on Ethics and Promotion of Ethical Principles and Values in Science and Higher Education in Special Relations and Public Relations and in the application of modern technologies and environmental protection. The Committee has accomplished its task. On the basis of Article 11(1) of the basic Regulation, The Rules of Procedure of the Committee have adopted 16 directly referred to the Committee over the past period. For most cases, the Committee adopted a final opinion and, for some, made provisional decisions or directed them to other authorities for consideration. Administrative, professional and financial support of the Committee's work from the founding session until the end of April 2, 2007, provided the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports with the role of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The work of the Ethics Committee is presented at several European and world scientific and professional meetings, UNESCO meetings, cooperation and joint projects with representatives of similar bodies in other countries, where we point out in particular the USA, Norway, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Great Britain and Austria and in public media. Cooperation with institutions in the system of science and higher education has largely been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5118	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5119	Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, we felt that this report should not be accepted, and this is a whole series of reasons. We have already presented a whole series of dilemmas and almost structural difficulties in the work of the Ethics Committee, and during the time between the committee sessions during which the report was discussed and these sessions we have come to an insight into some more I think the failures in the Committee's work. Split it up, I'd split it into a few chapters. It's about human beings, it's about concepts, and it's about pragmatic difficulties. First of all, we share several aspects of human resources again and I would like to warn you that the composition of members of the Ethics Committee does not comply with the provisions of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Article 112(1) of the said Law states that the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, is appointed by the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, which has 9 members, therefore 6 of whom are from the ranks of prominent scientists and university professors, and 3 are persons of appropriate public reputation. In the current composition, we have two docents, better said one docent and one docent. So we don't have people that all professors are prominent scientists and persons of proper public reputation, but we have two scientific or scientific research juniors. I would remind you that it is a custom in the world when there are ethical committees to be experienced seniors, to be persons who are in permanent calling, on the one hand, so that they can edit their experiences between disputes and on the other hand that nothing will be... Similarly, it seems to me that the two mentioned juniors do not belong to the ranks of prominent scientists, nor to people of proper public reputation, unless, of course, they are geniuses, because it still requires a certain experience, and as you know, the scientific and research activity is eminent-cumulative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, colleagues and colleagues, the law prescribes that the board has nine members. At the time of the report, the committee had seven members and never had more, and today there are six because we have resolved another member. The composition of 9 members of the opinion among other things and so that representatives of all scientific areas can participate in the Committee and that people of appropriate public reputation may also participate in it, not necessarily and scientific and university activities. Likewise, we are of the opinion that the committee, not by its own composition, therefore, cannot fully meet the requirements of the employer. I warn you that on the committee from now on from 6, and until recently seven members have no one who is an expert in ethics, I mean no member of the board is a philosopher, ethics is of course philosophical discipline, or someone who is professionally narrow and deeply better profiled in this problem. And finally, as far as personnel problems are concerned, I would like to point out that we have already been on the board during the debate, and, in particular, have later established that some members of the board are in conflict of interest. However, since the Dean of a Faculty, I have been informed that a member of the Committee is also under investigation by the Committee on Academic Integration at home, hence my own institution, which in itself is not incriminating, but is also indicative of the composition of the Committee. The second chapter that I want to warn about, which, fortunately, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has stopped, is that the observation that the code itself has been written in a way that it cannot be used in a consistent manner, so at times it neither exceeded the way and therefore requires quite serious and nomotechnical, as well as the language order, and perhaps reconceptualisation of the code. In addition, there are structural problems in the Code itself, because on the one hand, the Code planned for the Committee on Ethics to be ensnared or for the Committee on Ethics to be placed in the Ministry of Science, and the Code also set out that the cases were to be delivered to the Committee on Ethics by the Ministry of Science. In other words, in one part of its provisions, the Committee on Ethics is unfortunately, in our case, the extended hand of a state body, and it is in our court in no case good. In addition, the Ethics Committee Regulation, among other things, states that the Ministry of Science is carrying out the administrative and professional affairs of the Board, and that the archives of the Committee are located in the Ministry. The moment the executive authority begins to carry out professional tasks for a body, the body actually ceases to be completely independent and autonomous. And the third chapter is what I conditionally called pragmatic i.e. a chapter on the work of the board so far. Opinions and decisions are addressed, and perhaps against even good customs and best practices, so that out of the discrepancies coming out of the committee's session, there is no idea what it is because there is no case described, and there are no reasons why a decision has been taken. Second, neither the opinion of the committee was delivered to the incriminating person nor the opinion of the convicted person nor his parent institution. So actually the question is, how does the whole thing even work? What's the point of that? And finally, essentially, in practice, one part of the Committee's opinion is in direct contrast with the decisions of the university council of one of our largest and most respected universities, which is most likely the most professionally competent body in the country and perhaps in the region. My colleagues and colleagues! The Assembly shall appoint members of the board, the Board shall report to the Assembly and the Assembly shall bring it to the court. We think that these are sufficient reasons not to accept this report and to open up the possibility of changes that would be desirable in human terms as well as changes that would be needed in a conceptual sense. If we accept this report, we are afraid that we will not even open this possibility when we are going to legitimize both illegalities and illegalities and what I have called intricacies in some way and indifference, and perhaps abuse of certain powers. If we don't accept this report, then, as I said, we open up the possibility of redefinition and perhaps human resources restructuring of that committee. The Ethics Committee should be an example for us all and a bright one, and sometimes we too have an unattainable role model. It seems to me that he is so missing both in his concept and in his activity, so I urge you once again not to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5120	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5121	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I didn't want to take the floor twice as president of the board and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club because it seems to me that we really need a little economicizing time and that the things we can sum up to do. I'll just do it again for a second. You've received all the report from the board. The committee discussed this report on the work of the Ethics Committee, that it identified some of the problems that Col. Flego has now repeated. They're here in front of you. And in the end, the committee with six votes for and three abstentions made a decision to accept the report. I'd like to open up some questions about the committee's work right now, including this report. The fact is that this Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education practically began its work at the end of 2006 when the ethical code was adopted. So we can conclude that this committee is still in one more stage I will not say experimentally, but certainly at one stage in which only one better, more complete, more complete way to define some basic, fundamental things. In fact, no one is two, there is absolutely no dispute over that there are some fundamental problems that should be defined so that the committee can work really well in the future and that it can fully respond to its purpose. I'll mention some of those problems. The problem of relations with relevant committees and institutes in the university community. In fact, there is also an ethical commission at university level at the university. At the level of most universities there are also ethical commissions. I think that when this committee was formed which is undoubtedly needed and useful, the problem of the relationship between this committee and the existing committees at the level of the university and at the level of the university was not considered enough. What is this committee compared to committees or commissions, committees as they are already called at university level, at university level? Is he some third-degree caller, is he some kind of body that can be comforted by a decision at the level of the university or university? I'm not sure we can really define the purpose of this committee that way. The question is also what is the relationship of this committee to scientific workers who do not work in the university system? Most scientific workers are really covered in the university system, but not everyone. There are scientific institutes that some also probably have their own ethical committees, some don't, but I'm saying here we're opening another problem that we absolutely need to think about and define in the future. Another problem that has already been mentioned here and which committee in its report absolutely mentioned, it is the depletion of the composition of that committee. The fact is that so far, two committee presidents have resigned and two prominent students from the Faculty of God, if I say so, what I mean is we have to come to terms with regret because it is certain that the rest of the board members found themselves in one situation that was not so happy and not so pleasant for them. We finally had this third case, the resignation we accepted the other day. So I'm saying there's another problem. It's a rape of membership. I think that second problem is about the first one. that its purpose and purpose is not clearly defined in the establishment of a committee, that its relationship with the relevant bodies at the level of the university, at the level of the university and at the level of other scientific institutions is not clearly defined. It is logical that in this interspace it is clear that some board members may have indeed concluded that they may have a hard time or an awkward time. One more thing that's very delicate, and it makes sense that the board is in a delicate situation. It's about relations within the scientific teaching community. So inside of one world if you want us all to be colleagues because we've all been kind of friends in the same profession, either in other professions. Hence, it is also very delicate to judge and judge someone. Since it was the committee's task to react in some situations, I would mention another problem perhaps random, which is that the Committee on Ethics of Science in one perhaps slightly not so logically dealt with problems with the medical college. I suppose there are some problems in other colleges, that not only are the medics who come into conflict with some ethical norms or are wrongly allowed to be and it clearly blames that they have come into conflict with some ethical norms. However, in the debate, the committee took a position that I think is fine and that is why I will propose a final proposal on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community. In fact, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture was, I say, three abstentions, that the Committee cannot enter into the measure of decisions taken by the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education simply because to enter into the scale of any of these six I think the decision that I am management, six final decisions, are other recommendations and references to other instances. We should clearly enter a file for which we are ultimately not competent to enter it. Therefore, that is why the fact that the Committee has submitted a report in which we cannot enter, that this report is justified we have stepped to the point of view and it will be my proposal as the conclusion of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that this report is accepted but that it is absolutely open and I will initiate it as chairman, to open the question of the answer to all these problems that I have now raised and which I think absolutely need to resolve so that in the future, the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education can fully meet its purpose. That is why I say the Croatian Democratic Community club will vote to accept this report. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5122	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5123	Mr. President, colleagues. Here, I join the debate on the Report of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, limiting myself to an evaluation of the report and not in a way that I do not have enough arguments to comment on as well as on the establishment of a committee according to the criteria by which it was formed and the person chosen to do so because I think I can give confidence to those who did so in the previous term. So, I'm limiting myself to the report itself and I'm trying to get out of the report better than negative things, but of course I can't even skip some of my own observation over what could possibly have been or might have been better. In any case, the very interesting and commendable fact that such an Ethics Committee exists, that it has come to grips with a subject that is very delicate because ethics is very fragile, never defined and never unequivocal. It's even difficult, it's very difficult to define and time is measured and variable. Circumstances change, so some of our relationships with certain things change. I would, in addition to the fact that a code has been adopted as an attempt or for the time being, something that the committee is working on, I would point out the committee's tasks, no matter how many tasks have been achieved, how much they could have been accomplished or could be much more, but it seems extremely important to me that for the first time it is said that the public of work is present to the Ethics Committee, that it is available to everyone and that all of them can be attached. It seems very valuable to me how successful this has been or is not that it is unacceptable to make accusations at the expense of the scientific ethics of colleagues without submitting sufficient evidence for such claims because we have the practice that many are being accused and that there is no valid argument, in particular, and I particularly agree when this happens through means of public communication. I think these two points, the committee's assignments, are extremely important. Furthermore, it seems to me that it is very valuable to point out that they are prepared for the harshest convictions of anonymous denunciation and... scientists and scientific institutions through mass media including the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am pleased that there is a awareness that there must be an atmosphere of mutual scientific tolerance, that it is affirmed and that the University of Zagreb has brought its ethical code to which the Committee has made constructive remarks, so some other things have already been encouraged. It seems to me that this committee had one unfortunate circumstance, happy or unhappy as it approached the problem, which is that certain topics, or certain cases, were, if I could thus tell which ethical code it was dealing with were very interesting to the media because of the persons or subjects that were subject to it and that this great media attention created some pressure on the work of the board that could have been read in the media. Looking at what all the board's done to these sixteen items, it seems to me they've dealt with it pretty well. And as counterpart Peter Selem said, it is difficult to get into the extent of the problems and decisions they have made. Whether this committee could have worked more, whether this committee could have done much differently depends on how much the subject came to the table itself. And it seems to me that the greater value of the topics processed, the processed cases in which it will encourage some other ethical problems to come out and to be processed and that in fact this one report, the first report after this committee, the first report I am looking at can be one incentive for many others but each case itself is in a certain way, and we are talking as some diamond opportunity for grinding to come to a more reliable position and can make more competent decisions. I wouldn't pay that much attention to the age of people who deal with ethical problems. For the age itself is not a measure of one’s ethics, but of the way one lives his life. I find it very interesting that the chairman of the board or the chairman of the board is a person who also teaches the College of Ethics in science, which is, in a certain way, a challenge for me. Because through this one course of concrete problems, it can draw conclusions for its professional work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5124	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5125	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I would say, at the outset, I am fully supportive of the particularly introductive debates that were well-intentioned, which are aimed at improving the quality of this important body that has just begun its work in a very important, sensitive area such as ethics in science and higher education. The issues that are highlighted and deserve attention are related to the composition and selection of the persons sitting in that body and who manage that body. It is not excessive to stress given the sensitivity of the problem, given their importance for fundamental social values in the system of science and education, seniority is an important component. The time when individual evaluations are given is then experience and this measure is very important and significant and persons with their credibility and all those sitting on that committee guarantee their life experience, their knowledge, their references, professional attitude towards science and higher education guarantee and support and affirm the work of the board and the evaluations that have a major echo in Croatian society and media. And that's what we witnessed. Certainly Professor Selem pointed out some important problems, and I noticed the same. We have an Ethics Code of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. We have the Ethics Code of the University of Zagreb. Do we have the ethical codes of other universities? What is their hierarchical relationship? What is the compatibility of these ethical codes? These are issues that deserve attention and our joint efforts to standardise, because there is no need for us to have more ethical codes that regulate these important issues in science and higher education. In the preamble of this ethical code of yours is the following, and I want to highlight and highlight it. The Code defines ethics as a set of principles, rights and obligations governing human and professional relations, inter-school, scientific, in student and administrative members of the scientific and educational community. The fundamental values that the board advocates are honesty, freedom, but you have highlighted academic excellence. It seems unnecessary and pretentious. Academic excellence and commitment of each person who entered that space who wants to ensure the best possible quality of his serious, professional and responsible work not only as an individual. In that sense, I think it may have been unnecessary and such findings are not available in the Ethics Code of the University of Zagreb. The application of this code assumes good intentions and fair judgment, and applies to all institutions in a system of higher education and science with public right in the Republic of Croatia. Further, the Ethics Code of the University of Zagreb was adopted in 2007. I said it really is necessary and it makes sense to make efforts to see the compatibility of these ethical codes and to make all those efforts to standardise a part of good practice that ensures a high level of ethics in science and higher education. We have the Ethics Code of the University of Zagreb. What about the Ethics Code of the University of Osijek, Rijeka and some other universities. What is the hierarchical relationship between the Ethics Code of the University of Zagreb and individual universities. As is said, some universities have appropriate Ethics Commissions. And I personally talked to members of the Ethics Committees at my university, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing. Standardization and unification, regulation of all those fundamental values without the need to regulate details. That makes sense. It seems to me that in your Ethics Code there are details that are obvious and belong to one profession. Indeed, when these questions are regulated, these details are not necessary and are not necessary. In any case, I agree with the basic conclusion that such a body is very important, that it deserves our support and that it deserves efforts to make it as effective as possible in ensuring high ethics, which means the quality of science and high quality in the higher education system in the Republic of Croatia. Some of the reports in this, or commentary, and some of the contributions in this report deserve attention, and that is the part that causes media attention. And for this reason, the seniority of individuals and people sitting in such a body is extremely important. I quote: “The claims mentioned in the article, etc. on the plagiarization of Professor Kurjak according to the available documentation are true and it is undoubtedly confirmed that the text has been taken over without any indication of direct download." This is amazing for anyone who has experience in scientific work. But it is important to find out and it is one of the main functions, and it is very important that such a form of behaviour is suspended from the system of science and the system of higher education, because today when we talk often in this Assembly about quality, development, knowledge-based growth, competitiveness, then we need to know that these categories are precisely derived from the fundamental principles of high ethics and high professionalism especially in scientific work. We had opportunities in our recent past to listen to different comments on the subject. One of our colleagues said a few years ago: "it speaks much more of them than of me". I hope you will remember that comment that pointed to insufficient professionalism and inethicalness at some of the institutions of our university. In any case, I would consider this very important task and mission of this body as part of a preventive strategy that should prevent a drop in quality that can happen, and therefore I think that such preventive recognition and public debates, especially in the Croatian Assembly, are likely to do nothing serious, responsible and smart, to do what is contrary to the interests of the scientific academic community, high standards of quality in science and high education. Competitiveness certainly does not have competitiveness, there is no good product that can be commercialised in today's modern global competitive market without high quality education, high professional development, real and serious publications, real and serious reviews. And that's why I'd say in the end, I agree with everything that's been said so far. It is our obligation to support the work of such a body and to do everything possible to direct its work with our comments in order to be as functional and quality as possible in the common interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5126	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5127	Thank you. Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow a few thoughts on the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Vosco Education for the period from 6 February 2006 to 1 January 2008. I read the date on purpose because from the very fact that this report was submitted to the Croatian Parliament, from the very fact that we are developing in a special way both science and higher education, I am opposed to rejecting this report, however... I certainly agree with some of the comments expressed by my colleague from the SDP and my colleague, Selem, that there are some shortcomings here and in the composition of the board, that is a fact, but I have checked there are enough scientific advisors and regular professors, and of course should be completed. [[You don't understand.]] And that's a fact and that's what this pay phone needs to say, but the next one should be said. The scientific opinion may be the most dominant opinion in the development of a modern Croatian society that directly enters various spheres of society and production, which can create growth, but this scientific opinion can often be misused, especially remember that we have established these Adriatic universities, that we have only established six universities, as many as there can be various and wrong moves and there should be a level from which certain things can be borrowed. I will now not read about what the code and what it treats but it is very well understood and in this respect it seems to me that this committee has started to produce results and that it is also to be said and it is good to say in the Croatian Parliament that over the overall work there is someone who is di and see if we are ethical enough, whether we are sufficiently patient, whether there is enough trust, responsibility, respect and one universal civilization value in that system. I personally want to say that in this great desire to create higher schools, universities, or universities sometimes ambitions are greater than opportunities. Sometimes a number of scientists and everything that goes must be counted, and on the other hand, when we look at the benefits of our scientific work and contribution, and if we were to draw the line and look at the benefits of Croatian society from it, we would also open up a great debate, but if this was a great possibility we stand and we live and in that opinion every day we have to look into it because the world's potential of knowledge is more or less known, from 5-6 years of age it doubles, and this world potential of knowledge needs to be accepted through the scientific apparatus, through the professional apparatus we do it best, but without ethics, without responsibility there can be consequences. I would say that scientific opinion suffers most from one fact, which is partiality. Life is a whole, and sometimes genius stuff can't live what we want, and it's precisely in broad and transparent open debates that it's easy to see. And I think that every society that thinks within itself must make good judgment on what to catch, what to build on and what to survive on, because producing life and yourself certainly helps you and scientific opinion, but sometimes you need to give that problem a lot more complex. I'm here to say that the principles taken by this committee are probably compatible with the ethical principles of universities and universities, that's logical. Well, that's the way it should be, and we need to encourage universities to have their ethical principles and to deal with this problem at that level and to define what can be solved by ethical debate, and what is abuse that needs to be... Some other institutions, on these issues no one can solve, nor can this commission of some abuse and some mistakes be solved by ethical means alone. [[You don't understand.]] But ethical responsibility and this complex of questions are certainly certain brakes that we have inside us and certain responsibilities that we give. Because we all know well when a scientific work takes place at what time, and to do so if we give our original approach, we must be commended, rewarded, advanced, and we can pass on that knowledge to others. I would like to point out here for the public that the high principles of this committee and the tasks of the committee are that ethically unacceptable within the academic and scientific community is to make accusations on the basis of the scientific ethics of colleagues without submitting sufficient evidence for such claims. It's a very important category. And imagine if we put this into political opinion and start to bring this code as much as we'd have to say to ourselves, but that doesn't mean that in our conduct this responsibility shouldn't be. Yes, of course. It certainly should be, but if no one, but nobody is talking about it in Croatia, then it's bad, but the Croatian Parliament I think is the right place to talk about it, because we have to have a brake on something, we can't do everything we want. Furthermore, it is particularly unacceptable to make unproven and unverified claims by members of the academic scientific community through means of public communication. Also a very important fence. The Committee takes the view of the strictest condemnation of anonymous denunciation. I could tell you from my own practice how many of these come to notice. Therefore, one practice that is not very popular, and all of us who work at scientific institutes, institutions, know that such letters or facts are often stolen from universities. I'm not against it, maybe that's how something can be solved, but I'm afraid it's already too late and that you should know how to find communication and with such problems. It's very, very important. I would not specifically refer here to certain cases discussed by the board, but I would like to point out and underline that this committee is a young committee, that it has its perspective and that these weaknesses that have been observed should be supported to correct itself, so I no longer see any reason why the committee should not be completed. It's certainly a fact that stands. I also believe that the whole complex of questions will liven up even more on the ethical committees of universities and universities. In the academic community, too, it is certain that the work of this committee will bring more responsibility and what this complex of questions means. And what I want to say, and by applying the Bologna Process, where the methodology and technical teaching itself and so much is changing and the relationship with students, but also the relationship in what we have heard today in this assembly about lifelong learning and attitude towards those people who continue their post-doctoral, postgraduate studies, in doctoral studies. There is even more important teaching behavior if I may say so, professor because all of us who are in touch with it, I sometimes at the university where I have one college, students tell me that I can't get to a professor, some other things, means that the public that has to be present in that, I think it's very, very necessary. Because being the strength of someone, very difficult, ladies and gentlemen, we can share our experience with someone. We can know, but that deep experience in communication with us is radiating, and others decide to go. These are some things that are very important. And I'm going to say here what I said to my students once in one debate, a lecture, and then I said I was standing on my feet, I'm going to take care of it all, but for one more reason, and you know what reason. It is these young people in our conditions such as Croatia that will earn our pensions, if we do not inhale them so much competence, strength from within, that our pension can be thin, because the Croatian system is such that it has to build from itself. I would like to say this as a storm, I would like to say as a storm because that power is in us and in those who are coming, because if we don't, if we don't open the door, if we don't say so, and I agree with the representative, Mr. Flag, who said that the dignitaries, that those people who proved in society that they can do this to talk about these issues. That absolutely stands because exactly, that's that ethics, that's that responsibility, but certainly that we are all responsible with high trust and respect in our institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5128	Thank you very much. And as last in today's debate, Mr. Antun Vujic is a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5129	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm a little embarrassed to talk behind this many noble performances here that everyone has supported ethics. Otherwise, as I say, I don't belong to those who are opposed to ethics either, but we did some of it and we studied, we share those opinions, etc. But ethics has its place, it has a place in its profession, it has a place in our mutual relations, and otherwise for politics is its public form legal. There was a debate independent of these discussions from the long-standing renaissance we heard and when the Croatian state was formed, there were also ideas like this to be the Ministry of Truth. I don't know if you, Mr. President, agree with that, and yet by trying and arguing legal and other sciences, she said that the truth is relatively relative, to use that pleonasm, and that actually, the ministry has to be a judiciary, to see what the laws are, whether they apply and how they can, etc. So like this, something more absurd than the Ethics Committee that would be a para-state institution, I couldn't imagine it even existed. I, myself, show myself criticism that such proposals have occurred, and it was likely in noble intent when they were being set up. They probably set themselves up to make legal codes and to sort of make a total of our own to say all positive properties as best as possible. But what does the report of this Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education come down to? There are several thesis and several cases. So let's take a look at the more difficult one. He says like this, what does the board do? He took a principled stance based on the article and this, the law that was ethically unacceptable within the academic and scientific community... charges against the scientific ethics of colleagues without submitting boring evidence of such claims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a meal. It has nothing to do with ethics, it's the nakedest meal, and what does the Ethics Committee have to do with it? It's a job of the judiciary, a job of the lawsuit, etc. Secondly, it was particularly unacceptable to make unproven and unverified claims by members of the academic and scientific community through means of public communication. It's slander. What does that have to do with the Ethics Committee? It's slander. Look at it this way. The idea of the Ethics Committee is probably based on something that everyone would love, but unfortunately it's not, that there's a body that can determine what's true, and then from that and what's good, and then what's even more probative, etc., there's no such thing as that. It can't be a Committee on Ethics that's related to para-state institutions, which is related to cases of arbitration. That's why there are court cases, which is why I have to say all the other elements, and otherwise in science, science and ethics have a much more complex relationship than this. It's ethical to be scientific in science. It's ethical in science to explore things to the end and from what you've come to say, to put it as a scientific, autonomous truth that you've come to public service in controversy with these ideas to determine what is what. And this is where you get into cases. To whom the report states that perhaps the Parliament should even mention the names that are in here, whether they are positive or negative. This House can't be concerned at all. I won't mention any names, let them be so famous and known that it's better not to quote them that we don't make it difficult for them or make their fate easier if they're in conflict. They're in court trouble, they're in other problems, they're in jail. What does the Ethics Committee have to do with it? What I think is that, surely, ethical awareness should be strengthened in the university community, in the scientific community, etc., but this cannot be done through the Committee on Ethics. I think this report by the Ethics Committee shows that the Ethics Committee doesn't make any sense and that it's one of these pathetic institutions that needs to be abolished, affirming that I say all those values for which science is at stake in the competition, in the competence of the type to say the opposition, in the polemics, etc. This is one to say the utopian residual relic of an understanding that has nothing to do with a modern state that has several of its own to say, not a few, but a divorce of its properties on which it solves these problems. If this could have been better, then the cases described should have been different. So when it all comes down to talking about how they deal with issues of victory, questions of slander, and that's what other organs do, this doesn't make sense unless someone abuses it. The judgment on some cases looks like an abuse of judgment on these cases. That's what this Parliament is about, especially not to enter. This Parliament has nothing to do with the estimates of who's right in any of these cases, it's none of his business. He's too big a title to deal with these things. So, on behalf of ethics, on behalf of the Croatian State, on behalf of the legal system, on my own behalf, I believe that it is necessary to launch actions to abolish this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5130	We have one correction, Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5131	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think the blame should be corrected, I think it's my fault that my colleague Vujic said that this committee is big, unnecessary, etc. And precisely because we do not work in an ideal society or in an ideal state, and it is neither ideal science nor academic community it is necessary and necessary to correct weaknesses. On the other hand, you say there's no point here in this House discussing this topic. It certainly makes sense, and it's an incorrect allegation to me, because we in one way encourage and give encouragement...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5132	A colleague! This is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5133	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5134	... Prime Minister Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Vicic Topic, I hope it will be brief. [[Last-on speaker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5135	Your Honor, Mr. President! I'll be very brief because it's almost seven o'clock. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament for the constructive discussion and the very constructive suggestions that my colleague Katavic and I have been listening to. I thank you on behalf of the Ministry and the Government. And we'll try as much of that stuff as possible and implement it. But right away, I would have told you at first that it was a great idea that this Parliament almost two years ago, encouraged and founded this committee, because such a committee has Austria, has Scandinavian countries Finland, Sweden, Norway. We know how science flows with them, which is the standard of Great Britain. Unfortunately, I don't have a letter with me that the British congratulated us on a few decisions we made, because people follow it abroad. You'd be surprised. And British Medical Journey congratulated us and Commity Public of... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think a committee like that is definitely necessary. Only, of course, he, like any thing at first that's like a little child, has to be given a little bit of support and we're aware that there are difficulties that we're going to fix. I'm just gonna make a few things right for a little while. The board currently has eight members, not six, as the esteemed representative Mr. Flego said. He's got eight members. We recently resolved one on a personal request for illness. There'll be a new one now. That's it. He's in business, actually why is he important? He deals with responsible research. It's not so much of a function for him to look at ethics from a philosophical point of view, but for responsibility and research at a time when we have GMOs, when we have biotechnology and so forth. Why, by chance, just a comment, was it somehow enough from medicine? So look, in Croatia 46% of scientists deal with biomedical and biological sciences. Well, then, of course, there's gonna be more problems. But it's not all that expensive given the number of scientists who do these research. As far as the Codex are concerned, I'd say there's a code in the Rijeka University besides the University of Zagreb. And, of course, other universities would have to make their own codes. And he'll do it. The institutes of many have, only more called as rules responsible for implementing research in the community in... The projects had to be signed by all scientists to carry out responsible research. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the key. It's a novelty with us, and out there, it's the most normal thing to do. In the United States, there are two boards at the level of the entire United States. So I don't think we should be burdened with that if we should or shouldn't. Otherwise, as far as the board is concerned, at first, the ministry had to help him, and now he's moved to the Science and Higher Education Agency and everything is done there. So he's... And I don't think there's any involvement of the ministry in the work of the board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, once again, I thank you really for your constructive suggestions, and I hope that the next report will be even more quality than this one. And I think that's why the government accepted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-13-0.u5136	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And now we're gonna interrupt the session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda that's here in order. I hope that we will have the conditions for this point to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Macedonia and so on. With 13:30 a.m. voting. At 13:30 so we don't have to wait, but then we won't have a break tomorrow, you know. Then at 13:30, we'd continue to vote. I'm also asking the clubs to ensure that. Thank you very much and pleasantly! We are going to the Report on the work of the Committee on Ethics and Science, in science and higher education for the period from 6 February 2006 to 1 January 2008. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education for the period from 6 February 2006 to 1 January 2008. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This conclusion was accepted by 78 votes to 56 against and 2 abstentions.
