ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u2	We deal with the review of appropriations for the missions Economy and Future Investments and Trust Accounts (SAA) International Monetary Agreements and Loans and Advances to Individuals or Private Organizations (No. 4524, Volume III, Annexes 14, 19, 20 and 21); No 4527, volumes V, VII, VIII, IX, X and XI; No 4526, volume VI), then to the mission Financial commitments of the State, to the trust accounts Participation of France in the deleveraging of Greece and the financial contributions of the State and to the financial assistance account Advances to various government departments or bodies managing public services (No 4524, volume III, annexes 22 and 43). Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u3	Together with my colleague Valéria Faure-Muntian, I am responsible for presenting to you the appropriations allocated to programmes 134, 343 and 367 of the mission Economy. This year, of course, is a special one, since it is the last budget of the legislature and is the second and final year of the stimulus plan. I would point out in this connection that the whole recovery plan could have been included in Programme 134, but that a specific mission has been created to facilitate the reading of the EUR 100 billion allocated to it. During this exceptional health crisis, companies were protected, while the partial unemployment scheme allowed them to retain their skills. It is thanks to the massive support of the Government that the economy is now restarting faster than expected. Growth is expected to reach 6.25% in 2021 and 4% in 2022, given that the employment rate has returned to its 2019 level. From a general point of view, the appropriations entered on the Economy Mission this year are up sharply: they amount to EUR 3.2 billion in commitment authorisations (EA), i.e. 43% compared to 2021, and EUR 3.85 billion in payment appropriations (CP), i.e. + 56%. While this increase is largely offset by the new 367 Funding for Heritage Operations program, four of the Mission's five programs have increased their funding. Program 134 Enterprise Development and Regulation accounts for almost 50% of the Mission's total appropriations, increasing by 31% in CP and EA, reaching over €1.6 billion. This increase is mainly driven by Action 04 Post, telecommunications and digital development, which concentrates 43% of the funds allocated to the programme due to the assumption of universal postal service in the amount of EUR 520 million. We welcome this staffing, which ensures the sustainability of our postal service and will closely monitor its evolution, which must be adjusted according to the results and quality of service. On the other hand, the appropriations for the 23 Industries and Services project are declining. The latter account for only 30% of the programme's allocation, compared with 47% last year, due in particular to the decrease in carbon compensation for the electro-intensive industries, from €403 million to €344 million – a neutral green-budget compensation. Moreover, since 2019, we regret the absence of a financing line for a subsidy to BPIFrance's guarantee activity. In our report on the last spring of the evaluation, we called for the long-term restoration of this line, so that it could be given credit in the event of a crisis. Parliament should also continue to monitor the activities of BPIFrance, which is a public bank. With regard to France's very high-speed plan, which is the object of programme 343, the programme is continuing its operational phase. As a reminder, the Government decided to deploy very high-speed broadband throughout France by 2022. Since all the commitments necessary for the development of the public initiative networks (PIRs) have already been made in previous budgets, in 2022 only the corresponding disbursements, entered in Action 01 of the programme and amounting to EUR 600 million in payment appropriations, will remain to be paid. For the second and final year, the recovery plan contains measures that contribute to the implementation of the Mission's policies. Companies can count on state action in the field of ecological transition, with €288 million for industrial decarbonisation, or €180 million for the support of the automotive and aeronautics sectors. In the Arve valley in Haute-Savoie, for example, which is the historic cradle of décolletage and which concentrates 70% of this activity in France, the health crisis has shaken industrialists, also strongly affected by the announced end of thermal engines. Thus, in addition to the rapid and massive assistance provided by the Government, the companies concerned must seize the opportunity of the recovery plan to diversify their industry. Finally, I would like to refer to the France 2030 plan, which extends the innovation effort undertaken in 2017. As the President of the Republic has indicated, 34 billion euros will be included in the budget for 2022. We welcome this because this plan will enable our economy to look to sectors of the future where we need to meet: I am thinking of energy, hydrogen, medicines, semiconductors and the industry as a whole. [[Applause on committee benches]] In view of these remarks, we propose that you vote on the appropriations for the programmes 134, 343 and 367 of the Economy mission, as well as on the appropriations for the financial assistance account Loans and advances to private individuals and bodies, which have been adopted by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u4	Mr Fabrice Brun, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u5	EUR 68 billion: this is the figure of our twelve-month slippery trade deficit, which grew again in the first half of 2021. This is undoubtedly the black spot of the French economic recovery, while, despite the crisis, our Italian and German neighbours are showing insolent results. We all know the economic reasons for this, such as the difficulties, with the health crisis, of sectors which are traditionally export-promoting, such as aeronautics, or the rise in energy and raw materials prices. It is therefore important to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and to develop renewables, while relying on nuclear energy, which is an exportable path of excellence and a major asset for the success of the economic transition and decarbonization of our economy. However, our trade deficit also reflects structural weaknesses and the gradual weakening of traditionally promising sectors, such as agri-food. Fortunately, our wines and spirits continue to be well positioned internationally – I wanted to stress this – even if, in this area too, we are seeing a decline that must challenge us. Madam Minister responsible for industry, for lack of time, I will not mention the risks to our food sovereignty, the consequences of Brexit, or the production taxes that weigh on the competitiveness of our companies – which I mention all the more freely as I voted for their reduction in the Finance Bill (PLF) for 2021. I'm not here to blacken the picture: we're all in the same boat. Moreover, the good news exists and the minister responsible for foreign trade and attractiveness was right to stress them: we have never had so many export companies – 132000 to date exactly. This success, however, which is only relative, is first and foremost that of our entrepreneurs and their teams, who have left nothing behind despite the difficulties and the closure of the borders. It is also that of the Team France Export, this international team of France that the crisis seems to me to have more welded. However, we still have important margins of progress, especially when I see that our German, Italian or British competitors do not spend a kopeck – or so little, just 10% of the costs – to benefit from collective benefits or to participate in a major international fair, when our French companies must, on average, hand in their pocket and contribute 50%. As Special Rapporteur on external trade appropriations, I also regret that the extension of the recovery plan until 30 June 2022 – why not have the date of 31 December 2022, Madam Deputy Minister? – is not accompanied by a budgetary redeployment or, at least, a sacralisation of the € 247 million export recovery plan, in order to make the elimination of our trade deficit a national priority. I will propose an amendment to that effect and its adoption will condition my positive opinion on the vote on the appropriations allocated to external trade. We know that all these appropriations will not be consumed, since the peak of needs is ahead of us: they will be felt throughout the year 2022, with the gradual reopening of borders. It is at that time that we will need the export recovery cheque even more, which makes it possible to make affordable services that our competitors often receive free of charge in normal times. I will conclude by saying that the defence of foreign trade will, in the coming years, go through a definition of fair trade, instead of free trade. Indeed, the UNIDEN – Union of Energy-using Industries – in a remarkable study which has not escaped us, has shown that the decline in our national steel, aluminium and cement production, which has been offset by the increase in imports, has led to a sharp increase in our carbon footprint, proof, if necessary, of the link between deindustrialisation and trade deficit. Thus, at a time when Europe and France are at a time of choice, the introduction of a carbon tax at the borders of the European Union seems more than ever to be an economic and ecological necessity, more so because there is no global consensus so far on the cost of one tonne of CO and the commitment of countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions is uneven – I am of course thinking of China, India and the United States. As you know, only 59 countries, including France, have formalized a goal of carbon neutrality. In this context, this carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, as announced by the European Commission on 14 July, appears promising in many ways. Seeking both to achieve carbon neutrality and to address distortions of competition, Europe has placed the climate issue at the heart of international negotiations. It will not be without effect, in the long term, on our external trade and, as from 1 January, on the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union (EUFP).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u6	Mr Philippe Chassating, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u7	It is my responsibility to present to you the appropriations requested by the Government under programmes 220 and 305, which form the second part of the mission of Economy and the financial assistance account International Monetary Agreements. These two programmes combine the appropriations allocated to INSEE and to the Directorate General for the Treasury (DGT). The appropriations for the programme 220 Statistics and economic studies, which constitute the financial support of the INSEE, are in slight increase, amounting to 432 million euros, compared to 424 million entered in the finance law for 2021. The programme thus returns to the level of appropriations originally envisaged in 2021. The INSEE budget is part of a multi-annual funding agreement with the Budget Directorate and the General Secretariat of the Economic and Financial Ministries for the period 2019-2022. This contract, which sets out a path of credit and a reduction in the number of FTEs – full-time equivalents – offers INSEE real flexibility to organise its three-year employment plan in order to achieve the objectives set. I call for it to be renewed next year. I would also like to welcome the great adaptability of INSEE, which enabled it to continue its normal production during the crisis and today, but also to produce specific work during this health crisis. I now turn to the appropriations for Program 305 Economic Strategies, which carries the expenditures of the Treasury Branch, excluding operating expenditures. I would remind you that this programme has been affected by a twofold change in its scope: the appropriations of the Directorate of Tax Law (DLF) are no longer included in this programme, which, on the other hand, receives appropriations linked to the social and solidarity economy. The appropriations entered in this PLF are stable compared to the amending finance law (LFR) for 2021, with EUR 417 million. The bulk of this programme is intended to finance the compensation paid to the Banque de France in return for the services provided on behalf of the State. This compensation is again declining in this budget, amounting to €217 million compared to €222 in 2021. The secretariat of the over-indebtedness commissions absorbs the bulk of this compensation, i.e. EUR 132 million. I would like to pay tribute here to the profound reforms made by the Bank of France, which have allowed this item of expenditure to be continuously reduced; In particular, it saved €80 million on over-indebtedness expenditure between 2015 and 2022, while maintaining the same quality of treatment. The decline is expected to continue at least until 2024, as foreseen in the performance contract 2022-2024, which is currently being signed. However, I would like to draw your attention to the need to remain vigilant in the wake of this health crisis, which could lead to a rebound in the number of over-indebtedness cases. As such, I also call on the Bank of France to continue to raise awareness of this over-indebtedness procedure, but also to study the reasons for not using the procedure. This programme also finances – as I said – the Directorate-General for the Treasury, responsible for various tasks of economic forecasting, financial regulation, international negotiations, support for exports and investment abroad. This Chief of Staff continues to reduce the payroll of its international network, in line with the Public Action Plan 2022. Like last year, I would like to stress the need to be vigilant about the consequences of these job cuts and to take into account the essential role that this international network played during the health crisis. It therefore seems to me necessary that consideration be given to the scope of its international missions. Since last year, the 305 programme has also included funding for the social and solidarity economy, amounting to EUR 19 million, more than 2 million compared with 2021; These credits will naturally benefit investments with a solidarity dimension. I will soon conclude with the financial assistance account International Monetary Agreements, designed to guarantee the anchoring of the CFA franc's parity with the euro, as well as its unlimited convertibility. The call for security is unlikely and no credit is provided for 2022. These clarifications and the fact that these programmes are the subject of annual performance projects (PAPs), I invite you to vote for the appropriations for programmes 220 and 305 proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u8	Mr Fabrice Brun, alternate Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u9	First of all, let me say that I am replacing our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz, whose expertise is well known and whose voice I will be this morning. The draft finance law provides for EUR 11 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 3.5 billion in payment appropriations. Nevertheless, these figures will most certainly be overturned, owing to the changes that the Government is proposing to make to the mission. The Future Investment Program (PIA) 3, supported by programs 421, 422 and 423, is starting to slow down. For its fifth year of deployment, it will have €1.5 billion in CP, which is €400 million less than in 2021. This is due to the fact that almost 80% of the EAs opened in 2017 will, in 2022, be covered by CPs. PIA 4 has a total of EUR 20 billion. The draft finance law provided for the provision of €1.5 billion in CP in 2022 for the programme 424, with the appropriations for the direct part of the IAP4. The purpose of this component is to finance targeted investments in priority sectors. Nineteen national strategies were validated by the Interdepartmental Committee on Innovation. All the conventions governing the deployment of the IAP have also been signed, demonstrating rapid deployment. The structural component of the IAP aims to finance the education, research and innovation ecosystem on a sustainable basis. On this part, EUR 496 million in CP was to be opened in 2022. Once again, these elements will soon be meaningless because of the creation of the France 2030 investment plan. The Government tabled three amendments on Wednesday, 3 November, in order to draw the consequences of the announcements by the President of the Republic. We are therefore proposed to increase the Mission's appropriations by EUR 34 billion in EA and EUR 3.5 billion in CP. This is considerable, and we must not take it lightly! These appropriations would abound the two programmes of the mission bearing the PIA4, and the latter, launched just a year ago, would therefore disappear for the benefit of France 2030. While I am, in principle, in favour of strengthening our investment efforts and of the logic of developing our industrial capacities, which presides over France 2030, several pitfalls in the method chosen by the Government must be highlighted. First of all, I believe that the hasty creation of France 2030 is largely due to the holding of presidential and legislative elections in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u10	[[Mrs Anne-Laure Blin smiles]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, You see evil everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u11	Let's not be fooled! If the President of the Republic announced France 2030 in October, after several hesitations, it is because we are already in the election campaign. I was therefore not convinced by the clarification given to me by the Minister in the Finance Committee on how this plan was designed. I believe that it could have been the subject of wider consultation with the sectors and local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u12	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u13	In addition, the Investment for the Future mission, soon to be renamed Invest for France in 2030, is becoming a receptacle in which investment tools pile up excessively. Thus, after the launch of France 2030, what will become of the national strategies launched in 2021 and the agreements signed with the operators to deploy the PIA 4? In terms of governance, everything also remains to be defined. However, this issue is fundamental to ensure the success of France 2030. In this regard, the Government proposes to strengthen the procedures for assessing investments: if this is to be done in the right direction, however, it will be necessary for the State to be able to draw lessons from the strategic reviews that will be carried out, in order to provide real leadership of investment through performance. Finally, I would like to point out that the process of disbursement of appropriations under the IAP is very gradual. Of the EUR 57 billion opened for the first three strands of the IAP, only EUR 29 billion was actually paid to the final beneficiaries. If the same methods are used within the framework of France 2030, then it is necessary to rename this plan France 2040 or France 2050! Ultimately, if I share the ambition set for France 2030, I attach great importance, like many of us, to ensuring that the investments that will be made reach their goal. We still lack many elements to make an informed decision. I shall therefore express an opinion in favour of the Government's amendments, with the many reservations I have just expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u14	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u15	After studying many missions over the last two weeks, it is time to talk about some of the credits that allow them to finance: I want to talk about the interest charges of the debt. This is the main purpose of the appropriations of the mission Financial commitments of the State, which I report this morning. After reaching its lowest level in 2020, the mission's payment appropriations would be €43.1 billion in 2022, up €4.1 billion from the initial finance law (LFI) for 2021. This increase is mainly due to the €2 billion provided for in the new programme 369 Debt amortisation linked to the covid-19 and the rise in the call for guarantees forecast for the so-called PGE loans. First of all, I would like to clarify the main novelty of this mission: the creation of a programme dedicated to the repayment of the EUR 165 billion of debt resulting from the health crisis in 2020 and 2021. First of all, it is necessary to distinguish this debt from the State from the social debt linked to the covid taken over by the CADES – Social Debt Depreciation Fund – in accordance with the organic and ordinary laws passed in 2020. Secondly, the new 369 programme meets the dual objective of accounting isolation of covid debt and of posting a 20-year debt repayment path, in an effort to be transparent to the markets, to our European partners and to our citizens. I regret, however, the confusion that may arise from the flow of appropriations between the mission that I report and the special-purpose State financial contribution account, which is reported by our colleague Valérie Rabault, as these flows are likely to interfere with the monitoring of the amortization of the covid debt. Indeed, this presentation may suggest that the sale of the State's shareholdings will finance part of the repayment of the covid debt, whereas this is not the case. We will repay this debt with the fruits of growth, as a 6% portion of the increase in net tax revenues relative to their 2020 level will be spent on debt amortization. Growth is further enhanced by the choices made by this majority, notably the France 2030 Recovery Plan and the France 2030 Investment Plan, which we will also talk about this morning. I stress here the need to pay particular attention to the governance and evaluation of this major project, in line with the Court of Auditors' recent recommendations on IAPs. With regard to the conditions for financing French debt, they are very favourable and will remain so in the medium term. The main risks to the sustainability of our debt today are political: the markets will be attentive, on the one hand, to presidential candidates at the extremes of the political spectrum and, on the other hand, to the European situation, marked by the forthcoming exit of the PEPP programme, the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme (Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme) of the ECB, the European Central Bank, while the European States must be able to coordinate their debt relief trajectories. With regard to the rise in interest rates, the ECB seems to want to take its time until the recovery is well established and to postpone a rise in interest rates next year, while the Central Bank of the United States – the Fed – and the Bank of England want to start normalisation. It then seems important to me to take stock of the EMPs, which have an outstanding amount of around 142 billion euros. The Government plans €2.6 billion in guarantee calls on the EMPs in 2022. While the first macroeconomic figures available to us are rather reassuring, there are two important alert points. First, about 30% of companies that have subscribed to an EMP report having used almost all of the loan. For these companies, repayment of the EMP in four or five years is complex. We will have to keep a close eye on the repayment capacities of these companies that have subscribed to an EMP and have fully consumed it. Second, the economic shock of the covid crisis has changed the nature of corporate debt: before the crisis, debt was mainly used to finance investment, while a larger, sometimes majority, share of this debt is now financing liquidity needs. I will end with a quick word about France's very good position on the green bond market, despite the arrival on the market of new major issuers, notably Germany or the European Union, which issued EUR 12 billion of green bonds ten days ago. Green treasury bonds (GTOs) now benefit from a green grant or "green premium" compared to other bonds: demand is extremely dynamic, faced with a supply ultimately limited due to the lack of projects to be financed. Convinced of the usefulness of green finance, I consider it important to work collectively to unblock this situation in the real economy, while fighting greenwashing. In conclusion, and despite the regrets expressed about the confusion between missions with regard to the isolation and amortization of the covid debt, I give a favourable opinion to the appropriations of the mission Financial commitments of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u16	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u17	The year 2021 was marked by a sharp rebound in foreign trade, following the unprecedented collapse of international trade caused by the health crisis in 2020. Our exporting companies have shown great resilience. This year, there are 132,000 exporting companies, the highest figure in 20 years. This rebound is due to several factors. First, foreign trade benefits from an international trade-friendly environment due to the gradual lifting of restrictive health measures around the world, although many uncertainties remain, as evidenced by the current tensions on supply chains. Secondly, it is the result of the measures taken by the Government to support the economy at the beginning of 2020, in particular those implemented under the export component of the France Recovery Plan, amounting to € 247 million. Overall, the impact of these measures on the security of corporate cash flow has been very beneficial. The various instruments put in place for foreign trade continue to grow. Their welcome extension until June 2022 will allow companies to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the trade rebound. Their effectiveness could, however, be improved by a wider promotion of the tools proposed by the Team France Export, the TFE, which is the French public support mechanism for exporters, by simplifying the eligibility criteria for the export recovery cheque or by experimenting with more innovative formulae for the VIE scheme, international volunteering abroad. This resilience is also the result of the reorganization of the export support system, whose actors were fully mobilized during the crisis. Three years after the reform of the TFE, the first results are very encouraging, even though the actors have been confronted with an unprecedented crisis. The time has come to consolidate this mechanism with the continuation of the digital evolution of export support, the intensification of the actions carried out by the operators, the deployment of the Team France Invest and the better integration of private actors in the TFE, including the network of CCIs – chambers of commerce and industry – and French entrepreneurs located abroad. Finally, the rebound in foreign trade is a consequence of the structural measures taken in recent years to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy. In 2020, for the second year in a row, France retained the first place of European countries in terms of hosting foreign investment projects. But the crisis also highlighted some of the structural weaknesses of our economy: the decline of industry, the excessive sectoral specialization of our external trade, particularly in aeronautics and tourism, and the vulnerability of certain French and European supplies. This is why the reindustrialization of the country remains a priority issue for recovery; The industrial sector currently benefits not only from measures to improve the overall competitiveness of the French economy, but also from a specific reindustrialization strategy. I welcome both the results of the recovery plan and the France 2030 investment plan announced on 12 October by the President of the Republic. Finally, the crisis of covid-19 highlighted the vulnerability of global value chains. In this regard, the need for secure supply could be added to the requirement for greening trade to foster a regional shift in value chains. Closer trade links with southern Mediterranean countries could help reduce the dependence of the European economy and the French economy on more remote regions. Consideration should be given to the construction of new strategic partnerships with the countries of the southern neighbourhood in order to make them a priority for foreign trade in France and Europe. At the national level, this requires a review of the geographical priorities of the public support system for enterprises in foreign markets, oriented mainly towards Europe, even though the European market has helped our exporters a lot during the crisis; It is also necessary to make greater use of the expertise available to overseas countries and territories on their regional environment. At European level, negotiations on instruments to strengthen trade between the European Union and Africa should be speeded up, whether it be regulatory harmonisation or the conclusion of comprehensive, comprehensive and balanced free trade agreements aimed at energising our trade with Africa. Our country has many assets to develop its international trade. The finance bill knows how to make the most of it and provides our exporters with all the support they need. I therefore call on you to vote fully on the appropriations allocated to external trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u18	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u19	Before the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have expressed doubts as to the scope of the commitments under programme 134, in view of the challenges of ending the health crisis. Unfortunately, I was not followed. I can only warn the national representation against a change in appropriations and jobs which has many optical effects. Unfortunately, this is not a new observation: in conclusion of the budget opinion on the initial finance bill for 2021, our colleague Rémi Delatte had already highlighted a discrepancy between the means and the objectives displayed. In many respects, these findings remain. Yes, the finance bill for 2022 proposes an overall increase in appropriations; In this case, payment appropriations increased by 31.88 %. But, in reality, this apparent dynamic stems from a decisive factor, namely the evolution of the compensation granted to La Poste under the universal postal service as well as the spatial planning missions. For example, the universal service involves the inclusion of an allocation of EUR 520 million. In addition, the Government proposes to strengthen the State subsidy in 2022 in order to remedy the insufficient fiscal resources allocated to the national postal territorial equalization fund. In principle, it would obviously be gratifying that the State would renew its support for a public group that played a vital role in the economic and social life of the country. But, like many colleagues, I come to this point: in the absence of a reorganization, the resources released do not protect us against the deterioration of the postal service, which affects an increasing number of areas of the national territory, particularly in rural areas. In addition, the 134 programme does not involve any inflexibility or new means for business development and regulation. This is the case for tax expenditure, which is expected to amount to just over EUR 20 billion, but whose figures – although not provided for some of the sixty-five schemes supported by the programme – appear to be dependent on accounting charges which retain a share of arbitrariness. In terms of budgetary measures, the development of programmed financing is at least mixed. I would like to point out the very significant decrease in the appropriations requested for the compensation of highly electro-intensive sites, to which the sum of EUR 344.21 million is to be allocated under Action 23. This budget would take account of changes in the parameters for calculating compensation and would be in line with the entry into force in 2022 of new European guidelines. However, budgetary programming results in a reduction in the budget allocated to the mechanism whose effects should be precisely measured. I would also like to draw your attention to the further reduction of the employment ceiling. The Finance Bill proposes to authorize a maximum of 4,448 full-time equivalents. In practice, these figures show a very relative stabilization of the jobs granted to the DGE, the Directorate-General for Enterprise, while the previous years were characterised by quite significant reductions in staff. However, this measure cannot be a response to the persistent questions surrounding the means allocated to the economic services of the State in the region. The reform of the 3E cluster (enterprises, employment and economics) of the Regional Directorates for Enterprise, Competition, Consumption, Labour and Employment (DIRECCTE) has led to a regional reorganization and a tightening of the tasks which have justified a very significant reduction in the number of employees, but the health crisis has highlighted the importance of a certain proximity in the exercise of competences relating to economic development and to the support of enterprises. As regards the independent administrative authorities and DGCCRF services, programming for 2022 includes some additional jobs, notably for the benefit of ARCEP, the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and the Distribution of the Press. On the whole, however, there is no assurance that they meet the needs inherent in the exercise of increasingly demanding regulatory tasks. I will no doubt be told that the recovery plan and the France 2030 plan will provide for everything. But we owe the truth to those who are listening to us: the France Recovery Plan is a one-time financing instrument, and the commitments made by the Government need to be implemented beyond the current legislature. In addition, I draw the following conclusion from my thematic work: the effectiveness of the support and support mechanisms provided to businesses by communities is not only dependent on the level of resources mobilized, but also requires that the readability and accessibility of these mechanisms be sufficient. This is also necessary in terms of the budget. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, in view of its scope and the direction of its funding, I doubt, like many of you, that the 134 programme is making a real contribution to the objectives which the budget model sets for it. In my personal capacity, therefore, I express an opinion against the vote on the appropriations for Program 134 and the Economy mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u20	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u21	By pragmatism, we never paint giraffe in black. Therefore, in my report for an opinion on industry appropriations, I have highlighted some progress, such as the maintenance of the allocations for market surveillance and for certain industrial technical centres, as well as for SMEs and heritage professions. But, overall, the report I have the honour to present to you leads me to express, on a personal basis, an unfavorable opinion for several reasons. On the form, first: on 12 October last, the President of the Republic presented to us, without debate and without any consultation, his personal plan for the industry of the future, called France 2030. And it is only today, almost a month after its announcement, that Parliament will be able to discuss this plan, some of which, some 3.5 billion – excuse me for a little – is presented by way of an amendment, once again derogating from Parliament. If we already knew the President of the Republic's appetite for a solitary mode of governance – the word is weak – we now discover that he has turned into an industry captain, sprinkled here and there, through an election campaign, public money, without any real strategy, blind and within a few months of an important deadline. The lack of ambition for industry is not new, but the France 2030 plan marks a new step in the Government's inability to embody the strategist state. What strategy beyond the five years of France 2030? What pilot of the plan? What control of new appropriations, when no balance sheet has been drawn from previous plans? What counterpart and territorial variations? There is no mention of this. Yet there is much to do for the industry. In working on this report for opinion, I stressed that our industrial production had been directly exposed to its own weaknesses during the health crisis. In 40 years, industry has lost half of its jobs, 2.2 million, and 10 points of GDP, far behind many European competitors. While our sovereignty is threatened on a large number of industrial issues, as we can measure with the surge in semiconductor prices over the last few months and the supply difficulties, the recovery plan and the credits dedicated to industry, sometimes useful and life-saving, have generally served only to counter the urgency, without drawing an ambitious horizon for our industry. While climate change is at our doorstep, why not engage our industry in the direction of two fundamental objectives: on the one hand, the decarbonisation of the sectors and, on the other, the redevelopment of genuine domestic industrial sectors around an economy of functionality and repeatability? Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has preferred to the construction of a new strategist state and an industrial strategy for the territories a policy of reducing taxation and improving competitiveness - the cost of French companies, whose hypothetical consequences it expects to have favourable consequences for our country, its economy and its jobs - this is the reason for my unfavorable opinion. All this weighs heavily on the capacity of the State to act and on the resources available to local authorities at the expense of our industry. It must be noted that this tax gift policy has failed to achieve the desired results and has cost our social accounts and our know-how. In many cases, it has not been accompanied by any environmental or social conditions – issues that are central to it. The most striking example of your lack of a strategic and contractual vision, which has been at the heart of my report for opinion, is that of the automotive sector. The automotive sector is still a major player in our economy, but it lost 120,000 jobs in 15 years and represented only 6.7% of European automotive production in 2016, up from 13.7% in 2000. It has to cope with the disruption of the replacement of the thermal powertrain by the electric one. During the hearings, we indicated that 96 employment pools and 450 sites would be affected by it; According to a low estimate, 66,000 jobs are at risk. Madam Deputy Minister, how do you envisage accompanying this major industrial change in the relevant employment areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u22	Mr Antoine Herth, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u23	I have the honour to present the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the external trade appropriations of the Economy mission. Unsurprisingly, French foreign trade suffered severely as a result of the health crisis. In 2020, exports of goods and services fell by 16% and 13% respectively compared to 2019, with the trade deficit of €65.2 billion in 2020. However, there is good news: in 2020, for the second year in a row, France was ranked as the most attractive European country for foreign investors, with €3.5 billion in investments and 7,000 jobs at the key. After a brief presentation of the economics mission's appropriations devoted to foreign trade, it is precisely to this assessment of French attractiveness and to France's vulnerability to foreign inputs that I will concentrate on. The foreign trade credits of the Economy mission are part of programme 134 and will consist in 2022, of the grant of the operator Business France, for 85 million euros, of the remuneration of BPIFrance Assurance Export, for 50 million euros and of the support to events contributing to the promotion of French foreign trade, for 0.44 million euros. The public service subsidy paid to Business France is 2.8% lower than the original 2021 Finance Act. This decline is in line with the trajectory set out in Business France's COM contract for objectives and resources; This tool, whose efficiency was emphasized by the operator, must be renewed in 2023. In view of these factors, I have delivered an opinion in favour of the adoption of these appropriations; The Committee on Economic Affairs voted in favour of these. I now turn to the French attractiveness. Policy in this area is essentially regional; the Île-de-France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes and Hauts-de-France regions are today the most attractive. Foreign investment is not confined to major cities, since 41% of the investment was made in cities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. A parameter must be monitored: that of the consequences of Brexit on this dynamism. This can help to strengthen French attractiveness. However, it must be ensured that this potential is not hampered by difficulties in exporting. In fact, new administrative formalities will enter into force in 2022 for sanitary and phytosanitary goods. Madam Deputy Minister, I would like you to reassure us on this point: will the human and financial means to cope with these new constraints be commensurate with the needs? France's attractiveness policy has also seen a new impetus with the establishment, at the beginning of 2021, of the Team France Invest, which aims to unite the various actors in attractiveness around a common roadmap and operational means. The first feedback on his work is rather positive, but let us be careful to involve all the actors. The Court of Auditors' recent report on Business France points out that regions are competing to attract investment projects, which may complicate the establishment of a national strategy. Attention must also be paid to the quality of the reception of foreign staff in France, a key factor for attractiveness. Attracting investments is all the more important since French companies are the European champions of filialisation, with 47,000 subsidiaries abroad, for a turnover of 1670 billion euros. Attracting foreign companies at home allows us to rebalance our trade balance, which is currently in deficit. The second topic studied is the vulnerability of France to foreign inputs. Two studies, one conducted by the Treasury Directorate-General, the other by economists Isabelle Méjean and Xavier Jaravel, accurately establish our various vulnerabilities, in terms of chemicals or rare earths, for example, the United States and China being the two countries on which we depend most. How can these vulnerabilities be reduced? First, what are the strategic inputs for the country? I refer here to a recommendation by Xavier Jaravel and Isabelle Méjean to propose the creation of a committee of experts on this subject. Secondly, it is necessary to push for the diversification of supplies, the creation of stocks and the increase of French production capacity. Finally, Madam Minister Delegate, in the agricultural sector, can mirror clauses be defended within the framework of the French Presidency of the European Union? This is also an important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u24	I call Mrs Bessot Ballot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u25	For the third year in a row, I am pleased to present to you the analysis of the appropriations devoted, in the initial finance bill for 2022, to the social economy, solidarity and responsibility – ESS. As you know, since the transfer under the previous initial finance law, action 04 of the Economic Strategies programme is the grouping of budgetary resources specifically devoted to this public policy. This successful simplification of the budget model could eventually be achieved through the publication of a cross-cutting policy document. In many ways, the last budget of this quinquennium renews the government's commitment throughout the legislature. Beyond the establishment of a State Secretariat for the Social, Solidarity and Responsible Economy, which demonstrates the importance attached to the sector, the sector has received increasing financial support. In the troubled economic circumstances of the health crisis, it was able to count on the emergency fund ESS which enabled, for the benefit of nearly 4800 structures of less than ten full-time equivalents, the mobilisation of 30 million euros. While all the dashboards make it possible to announce an exceptional resumption of market activity, it is important that the State accompany the ESS, so that it takes its full part in the construction of a development model that can perfectly fit into the real economy. The 2022 Finance Bill fully contributes to this goal by providing the necessary resources for the structuring of an ecosystem and the development of new tools. In fact, budgetary programming ensures the continuity of funding dedicated to these essential issues for the structuring and growth of the social and solidarity economy. First, the appropriations provided support the development of social impact contracts. Secondly, this draft budget for 2022 proposes resources useful for the structuring of an ecosystem whose complexity may discourage certain actors. Beyond the extension of the funds allocated to support the heads of networks, it emphasises the increased funding of the territorial economic cooperation centres – TCEP. Such a direction seems decisive because these schemes have two virtues: on the one hand, they offer a framework for pooling resources and cooperation between associations, cooperatives, third places, companies and public authorities; On the other hand, they seem likely to encourage a change of scale in the implementation of projects, encouraging the mobilization of resources other than microfinance or grants. In the same vein, it is worth stressing, lastly, the strategic nature of the resources made available this year again for the strengthening of local support arrangements – DLA. The aim of these programmes is to promote the consolidation and development of jobs and projects of social utility structures by means of tailor-made support, which is also free of charge. The social, solidarity and responsible economy cannot be regarded as an infusion sector. It accounts for 10 per cent of the national gross domestic product, 14 per cent of private employment, 12 million volunteers, 2.4 million wage earners and its actors are very diverse, so that it has all the attributes of an economic sector in its own right. In many cases, these structures and operators face funding difficulties. The investment of private actors now appears to be limited due to many factors. First, there is a very unfavourable – and unseasoned – assessment of the risk associated with financing its projects. This aversion, which often involves a lack of understanding of ESS models and the perception of insufficient profitability, undermines the use of traditional financial channels. The limits of the specific financial tools introduced by the Act of 31 July 2014 should then be measured. Renovation of securities and associative bonds, the support of actors and the development of solidarity savings are essential steps to increase private sector investment. Although several projects have been opened by the Government in this direction, today the support of public authorities remains of cardinal importance. This draft finance bill sets out the long-term efforts of the State in favour of a sector of the future, which does not oppose economic rationality to the pursuit of goals of social utility, respect for ethical issues and the valorisation of the territories. It is in the light of these choices and the resources included in Action 04 of the 305 programme that I, like the Committee on Economic Affairs, will give a favourable opinion on these appropriations from the Economic Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u26	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u27	I will address here the three special accounts State financial participations, France's participation in the deleveraging of Greece and Advances to various government departments or bodies managing public services. If we were to find a common thread for all three, it would probably be the fact that they are excluding Parliament. As regards the appropriations of the State's financial contributions, I repeat, as every year, that they are only indicative. Since the creation of this trust account in 2006, we have generally voted for €5 billion in revenue and €5 billion in expenditure. However, this year, EUR 8.9 billion is planned for both revenue and expenditure. Of this amount, we only have information for €4.3 billion. As for the allocation account France's participation in the deleveraging of Greece, it reflects the European commitments made by the Government without the approval of Parliament, contrary to what is done in other democracies. Established as a result of a moratorium, the purpose of this account is to reimburse Greece for its interest paid to the Bank of France. However, in 2022, France will still keep 925 million euros in cash, which it should have returned to Greece. Finally, the Account Advances to various government departments or bodies managing public services does not really have a budgetary stake, as it brings together cash advances, for example for the CAP – common agricultural policy. This year, the total amount of advances is EUR 11 billion. Since Parliament is basically a spectator rather than an actor for this mission, let me go back to seven areas that I think would be a priority for the participation of the State. First, a strategic framework needs to be defined. Where do we want to invest? The state's portfolio is 125 billion euros: 70 billion funds listed and 55 billion unlisted funds. This still accounts for just under 10% of the annual public expenditure or a quarter of the annual expenditure of the State; So that's a lot of money. However, there is never a debate in Parliament on the investment strategy. Thus, out of the 125 billion, EDF alone represents a quarter of the portfolio, without Parliament being seized of the group's reform project. Another point is health. You will not find in the portfolio a single interest in health companies. It is completely absent, even though it is present in other public funds of large economies. In the face of our criticisms, the Government has ended up saying that investments in health sector enterprises are likely to be needed; It's written in the France 2030 plan, but it's not clear at this point. Secondly, Parliament should vote on the State's strategic investment framework. We could at least do it as a programming law; It wouldn't be totally useless. Third axis: define a readable framework. In order to be included, the State Equity Agency (PAA) should consolidate all government investments. Otherwise, it is the bazaar and it is necessary to search all over the public sphere, with BPIFrance and the PIA, without any consolidation that provides readability. I agree that there is an attempt at budgetary yellows, but here too, not all the information is recorded. Fourth axis: evaluation. Do you find it normal, ladies and gentlemen, that the State's financial participation mission be the only one, among the blues we have, for which the performance targets imposed by the LOLF (Organizational Law on Finance Laws) are not informed? The only one! As for programme 367, which abounds in the trust account, it does not even have performance indicators. Therefore, there is no risk of being able to make a proper assessment. Fifth axis: beyond strategic objectives, readability should become a compass, in any case for the budgetary axes. CAS Crown financial participations receive general budget allocations, but do not collect dividends from corporations in which the Crown has equity interests. It's a biased reading. Since its creation in 2006 and until 2020, the CAS State financial contributions have received 43 billion from the general state budget; During this time, the State Equity Agency should have received 89.5 billion dividends paid directly to the general state budget. I therefore reiterate the proposal that I make every year during this budgetary debate: to ensure that the CAS State financial contributions receive the dividends. Each year, Parliament would vote to determine the share of dividends remaining in the CAS and the share returning to the general state budget. Sixth axis: Close the Innovation and Industry Fund (IIF). From its inception, I denounced a gas factory. The Court of Auditors, more polite than me, spoke of "... unnecessarily complex and unjustified budgetary mechanics". Now we are there and we see that the fund is not working, since only one third of the appropriations have been disbursed, whereas 100 % of the appropriations should have been disbursed. Seventh axis: stop using the CAS State financial contributions for something other than state investment. Since the crisis, two new programmes have been put in place to finance emergency situations. In the Bill for 2022, the Government makes it a payment vehicle to pay off 1.9 billion covid debt. He will seek the money from the general budget of the State, assign it to the CAS Financial participations of the State, who himself transfers it. In terms of readability, this slightly blurs the cards. [[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] These seven axes seem to me to be a priority for re-readability and re-establishing Parliament's role. Otherwise, we'll remain godillots. As the spokesman for the Committee on Finance, however, I would point out that the Committee on Budgets has adopted the appropriations of the three special accounts concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u28	Mrs Huguette Tiegna, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u29	Madam President, Madam Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs for opinions, Mr Special Rapporteur, the Investment for the Future mission is an original and evolving mission, oriented towards the future and the revival of the economy. Original, it was created in 2017 to budget for IAP 3. It is led by the General Secretariat for Investment (SGPI), whose interdepartmental role is based on a particular investment doctrine. This enables the financing of risky and strategic innovative projects related to energy-efficient transition, economic competitiveness and the resilience of health and economic ecosystems. The Investment for the Future mission consists of five programs, three of which are allocated to IAP 3 and two to IAP 4. The Mission as a whole includes $16.5 billion in commitment authorities and $3.5 billion in payment appropriations for the year 2022. The present mission, however, derogates from the budgetary rules of ordinary law. Thus, for PIA 3, out of an initial envelope of 10 billion opened in 2017, all EAs were consumed. For the period 2018-2021, 6,1 billion CPs have been opened and 1,5 billion euros are included in the draft finance law for 2022, an amount less than the trajectory originally planned in 2017, of 2 billion euros. IAP 4 has an envelope of 20 billion, double the appropriations allocated to IAP 3 for the period 2021-2025, including 16.6 billion for this mission and 3.4 billion for interest generated by non-consumable allocations. Created within the framework of the IAPs 1 and 2 and the annual revenues generated by the Investment and Industry Fund, the budgetary specificities of the Investment for the Future mission are not without consequences on parliamentary control. Indeed, it is difficult to measure by a simple annual budget analysis of multi-annual investments. That is why I propose in my report that the budget model be reviewed in order to have a more transversal view of the Government's investment policy when the investment logics are identical. This is done today, since the three amendments submitted by the Government not only abound the mission Investments of future of 34 billion in AE and open 3.5 billion in CP, but they change the name of this mission, which becomes the mission Invest for France of 2030. This change is in no way a cosmetic measure. This new name offers a better readability to parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u30	It's better to hear that than to be deaf!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u31	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u32	It also corresponds to an evolution of the investment doctrine. Indeed, the new appropriations which will abound the two strands of the PIA 4 will be able to finance the whole value chain and will allow, in addition to risky investments within the framework of the so-called PIA doctrine, a reindustrialization of France. Finally, this new name responds to the criticisms made by the Court of Auditors in its interim report of 27 September 2021: the evaluation may be carried out in order to improve the management of these projects, i.e. during the course of projects. As for the new appropriations, they will fund national acceleration strategies under the IAP 4 directed component. The hydrogen acceleration strategy, which I have studied in my report, will make it possible to finance important projects of common European interest, based on the success of those accepted under the Batteries Plan. Green hydrogen is a sector of the future that will give France a comparative advantage in terms of decarbonisation of industry and the development of clean mobility. As for the forthcoming national battery strategy, it will contribute to the construction of a carbon-free industry, an area in which France plays an equal role with Germany. Yes, it is an indispensable instrument to develop by 2030 a competitive industrial France fully committed to academic excellence and carbon sobriety. As you will have understood, the PIA is a valuable tool for preparing the economy of tomorrow, a tool whose relevance and success the Court of Auditors notes, since since 2009, Mr Jumel, it has not been called into question by the various political alternations. [[Valeria Faure-Muntian, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I ask you to validate this mission. I would like to acknowledge the commitment of the entrepreneurs who faced the covid, while hoping, Madam Deputy Minister, that in 2030 equal pay will finally be an obvious one for women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u33	We have finished with the statements made by the rapporteurs, and we come to those made by the representatives of the groups. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u34	Madam Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, since 2017, we have kept our economic policy commitments from day one to day last, despite the pandemic. In this crisis, we have been able to find opportunities for a solid recovery and bring us back to far too long forgotten levels. The unemployment rate has been lowest since 2008, growth is expected to be more than 6%, French living standards have risen twice as fast as in the previous two quinquennats, and France has become the most attractive country in Europe for foreign investment. With the European Recovery Plan, we have made a leap forward in the construction of Europe; France's recovery plan is already bearing fruit. France has caught up with its delay and we must stay on course to become a nation at the forefront again. With the France 2030 plan, wanted by the President of the Republic, we put an end to decades of renunciation of grandeur and industrial capitulation. A few days after the presentation of the plan, we are putting in today 3.5 billion credits to commit to its implementation. France 2030 must enable us to make France a nation capable of solving climate and environmental challenges. France 2030 is also the incentive we need to contribute to European technological sovereignty. For this, we must radically transform our energy and industrial production methods together, so that no one is left on the margins. This requires further decarbonisation of the means of energy production, with the development of small nuclear reactors and EPRs (European pressurized reactor), enabling us to become a leader nation in green hydrogen. It is in the direction of a decarbonized industry that reduces its greenhouse gas emissions and develops new and more virtuous transport technologies for the environment: 2 million hybrid and electric vehicles, and low-carbon aircraft by 2030. As an elected member of a territory hosting the fourth French airport in terms of movements – Toussus-le-Noble – I am particularly sensitive to the fact that, thanks to France 2030, we can renew our fleet as quickly as possible to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions and noise pollution, which pose a growing threat to public health. Some critics disagree that the nuclear industry is the necessary condition for a reliable, sustainable and low-emission energy mix. As the High Commissioner for the François Bayrou Plan pointed out, electricity consumption will double in 30 years, just in France. We cannot be dependent on fossil fuels from foreign powers; We cannot rely solely on renewables with random capacities to maintain reliable electricity production at an affordable price for the French. We must therefore continue to invest in the nuclear park. France 2030 is an opportunity to strengthen agri-food chains for healthy, sustainable and traceable production; for a nation that is the guardian of its food self-sufficiency that promotes short circuits and where farmers and their families have an income and a pension that allows them to live in dignity. This was our objective with the laws for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as EGALIM, the new CAP and the upgrading of pensions; we continue with France 2030. For the majority, the revival of the industry is not a pious wish. Under your authority, Madam Minister Delegate, the State has supported 624 relocation projects; one third of the industrial enterprises were accompanied; industrial employment recovered and production taxes fell by 10 billion during the quinquennium. France 2030 is also putting health at the heart of the reindustrialization system, investing in research and national production of biomedicines against cancers and rare and chronic diseases. This is an economic issue for one of the sectors most actively participating in France's positive trade balance. But as the pandemic has demonstrated, it is above all a sovereignty issue. We need to be independent in the production of paracetamol, but we also need to make up for the gap in breaking innovation. Our goal is to continue building a more just society in harmony with the living, for it has not escaped anyone that we have experienced this year climatic episodes of extreme violence throughout Europe. We need to better understand our world, through a resumption of investments in space exploration, with the production of reusable mini-launchers and microsatellites, as well as in seabed exploration. It is both a matter of speeding up research and innovation and of guaranteeing our sovereignty. With the France 2030 plan, which gives substantial resources to the production of cultural and creative content, we finally want to restore France to what it should never have ceased to be: a light for the world. In the words of the President of the Republic, we must approach these perspectives with a "commando spirit", far from the heavy organizational burdens that have sometimes weighed on the spirit of innovation and rupture in France. With a view to France's deployment, the actors of the territory must be fully involved, in order to mobilise all the living forces of society. We will therefore pay particular attention to the governance rules that will be adopted for the deployment of the France 2030 plan. For all these reasons, Members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u35	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u36	First of all, I regret the globalisation of the discussions, which leads to the mixing of debt, state commitments and foreign trade. Again, simplification would provide more readability. I have already spoken about the mission of financial participation of the State; I can't believe it. Over the course of twelve slippery months, the cumulative external trade deficit stood at EUR 68 billion, among the historical records. At the same time, Germany is expected to have a trade surplus of €210 billion in 2021. France is one of the five EU countries with a trade deficit and has the highest. We can always look for excuses and invoke the rise in the price of energy. That is true, it has an impact, but it also affects Germany, probably even more. The problem comes from the weakness of our exports: we export about 470 billion euros, compared to 1300 billion – almost three times more – for Germany. Two shortcomings explain this: the inadequacy of our industrial production and the inadequacy of our export policy. Thus, as Mr Fabrice Brun, Special Rapporteur, pointed out in his excellent report,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u37	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u38	... the financing of the export recovery plan announced in September 2020 will not reach the expected amount of € 247 million; Only €175 million will be allocated, mainly due to under-consumption of prospecting insurance. Between 2018 and 2022, the credits allocated to Business France decreased by almost 10%, causing a decrease in the number of agents, i.e. 153 for the international side and 30 for the export management. Still for Business France, only 50 per cent of its revenue comes from public resources, while its 11 main counterparts are 90 per cent financed by public funds. This obliges the agency to use time for the search for resources that it does not devote to helping companies. In addition, companies are obliged to advance funds, in particular to attend international fairs, when their competitors do not spend a single euro.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u40	In view of these findings, it is essential to carry out a "commando action", in order to take up the term previously used, in favour of export. Another area of concern is State-guaranteed loans, amounting to EUR 140 billion. Special Rapporteur Bénédicte Peyrol writes that "28 % of companies declare that they have used almost all of the loan"; It considers that "special attention should be paid to these companies for whom reimbursement of the EMP in four or five years appears to be complex" and that "it is necessary to find innovative solutions in this area". I fully endorse his recommendation. I also note that for 2022, the Government has included 3.4 billion euros in the 114 Calls for State Guarantee programme, which supports the repayments of EMPs. I have noted that these are estimates, but the amount is twice as high as the appropriation for 2021, suggesting that the Government has projections of the capacity of companies to repay. In addition, the Special Rapporteur writes in her report that "[t]he peak of calls for guarantees [is] now expected for the year 2022". Tax benefits for savings are another issue that you are being asked about. Again, Mrs Peyrol's report is enlightening. The Government plans for 2022 on €4.7 billion in savings tax benefits. According to the Special Rapporteur, EUR 5.9 billion was implemented under this heading in 2020. I insist: the budget provides $4.7 billion for 2022, despite an execution of $5.9 billion in 2020. "This is a largely misleading decrease - the eye since three tax expenditures estimated at EUR 1.1 billion in 2020 are not estimated for 2022. It is still 1.1 billion, ladies and gentlemen, and it is the Special Rapporteur who is writing it! Madam Deputy Minister, how can you be sincere if you forget EUR 1.1 billion of tax expenditure in the budget for 2022? The table on page 31 of the report shows that the tax benefits for savings range from EUR 5.6 billion to EUR 6.1 billion each year. What is interesting is the evolution of the large masses within these expenditures: the sum of tax exemptions for popular savings – booklet A, housing savings plan, popular savings book, sustainable development booklet and solidarity – was divided by two between 2016 and 2020, from 1.5 billion to 800 million euros, while the total tax benefits are still 6 billion euros. According to the principle of communicating vessels, this means that high incomes have captured the tax benefits of saving. Finally, a word about future investment programmes. We have all been shocked to see your amendment at EUR 34 billion, probably the highest in Parliament since the creation of the Fifth Republic. It's not very serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u41	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u42	[[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] That will be my conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u43	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u44	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u45	The meeting was resumed. Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u46	For too long, we have forgotten the tragic side of life, both social – our nation is not eternal – and individual – we have learned to die again. Covid tragically and collectively reminded us of our dependence and vulnerability. If Ernest Renan felt that the existence of a nation stems from a plebiscite every day, André Malraux saw it as the fruit of a community of dreams; Or, how can we dream collectively without a common goal, without something to share? If we look carefully, the line drawn over the past few years appears increasingly clear, highlighted by the covid: the Government has been able, during this pandemic – thanks to the loans guaranteed by the State, the solidarity fund and the scheme of partial unemployment – to maintain activity and protect the nation, within its limits and with all its hopes. He began to see the effects: a 6.6% growth rate in 2021, unemployment falling, reaching its lowest level since 2008, in an unprecedented way, since this had not been the case for a long time, no matter what the groaning minds think. The Government has gone further, presenting a €100 billion recovery plan, which has borne fruit, particularly in the areas of the isolation of public buildings, digitisation, support for small businesses and their digitisation: something is moving in France, a collective dream is coming up again. The Government is aware, however, that the recovery plan will not be enough and that another dream must also be pursued: France 2030, an ambitious plan to decarbonise French industry and support innovation. It will provide a perspective for the nation and its citizens. What actions for decarbonisation and support for innovation – necessary and selective – so that France can dream again and still be there in a thousand years? As the President of the Republic said in October, small nuclear reactors will have to be revived so as to decarbonize, although some sorrowful minds dispute nuclear power: France is exemplary in this field, with exceptional know-how that must be preserved. There is also a need to support the hydrogen sector, since hydrogen can promote decarbonisation and will help to develop low-carbon transport, particularly for aviation. The aim is also to develop electric cars and clean transport. All this is possible only with training aid, for which France 2030 provides credits: how to create the jobs of the future and train the new managers who will be exercising them? It will also be necessary to train in culture and knowledge, in particular in the craft trades – a profession of excellence for which an increasing number of people are reconverting and who have only one desire, that of promoting France internationally. Another specific feature of France is biopharmaceuticals and bioproduction: in a few years, France has moved from first place in the world to fourth place. It is therefore time to return to the path of excellence and to help, once again, pharmaceutical companies to re-establish themselves in the territories, to animate and enrich them. Of course, we must promote healthy and sustainable food and our agriculture, one of the world's first: it must remain so and continue to snack on places, not only to feed the French population with quality food production, but also to export what is one of France's wealth. Finally, it is essential to install very high speed and fibre for all, in order to rebalance the economic development of the territory. We must continue to earmark funds to finance this type of action, even though much has already been done. The France 2030 plan confirms that every citizen must be connected by fibre, for a more balanced development. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Thus, gradually, thanks to these awareness-raising in connection with the covid-19, but also thanks to government actions during the pandemic, the recovery plan and France 2030, a dream is beginning to emerge, a collective will. Above all, we give hope to the younger generations. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will be voting in favour of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u48	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u49	The missions of the State Financial Commitments, Economy and Investment of the Future elicit some observations from the IDU and independent group. First of all, EUR 43 billion of payment appropriations correspond to the burden of public debt: they are part of the important and significant figures that we need to raise and which call for immediate attention. The other figures that are obvious are the EUR 165 billion commitment authorisations related to the amortisation of the covid debt, as well as the EUR 142 billion of PGE. These figures are significant, not to say dizzying, but no one will complain about the support and commitment of the state during this period of health crisis, because, as we have seen on a daily basis – with partial unemployment, the solidarity fund for companies, the EMPs, not to mention the carry-overs – a real arsenal of support for economic activities has been deployed to large companies, SMEs, crafts and trade. The proponents of budgetary orthodoxy will rightly remind us of the inherent fragility of such debt figures, mainly linked to the low current rates, depending on the possible decision of the European Central Bank to raise its rates. With regard to the mission Economy and investments of the future, the France 2030 plan succeeds the France Recovery plan. In concrete terms, for those who follow our debates on the examination of budgetary appropriations, let us stress that France relaunches and France 2030 correspond to a concrete accompaniment in the territories: I measure it every week in the constituency that I have the honour to represent, since the financial support to which my region of Brittany benefits feeds fields as diverse as the granite, leather goods, textiles and agri-food sector. These financial commitments for the future are therefore a real, significant support for relaunching economic activity after the global health crisis. The same is true for investment programmes of the future: in my constituency, the PIA 4 has resulted in some 20 million euros to support a training campus for the trades of the industry at the level of the borough of Fougères-Vitré and of all the intercommunalities it covers, including the most rural – I am thinking of Val d'Ille-Aubigné, the country of Dol, the bay of Mont-Saint-Michel or Couesnon Marches de Bretagne – all of which receive credits from the investment programmes of the future. Of course, we must be careful and bear in mind the few lines of thought I have outlined, because, following the covid crisis, the recovery is taking place in a context of rather special speculation, linked in particular to the 85 % rise in the price of maritime transport, which implies that the prices of raw materials imported by the European Union rise very sharply. This legitimately raises the question of relocation of activities at the time of the twenty-sixth Climate Conference (COP26). It is in our interest to step up France's effort, at European Union level, to relocate activities, such as the production of medicines or the wood industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u51	In the case of covid debt, if we consider that there will be inflation, an increase in wages, while compulsory levies, therefore taxes, will not increase, we can estimate that it is inflation that will partly contribute to its repayment. The question of wages rightly arises, especially for those of our fellow citizens who receive the most modest income. [[Anne-Laure Cattelot applauds]] On behalf of the UDI-I Group, I will vote for the appropriations for these missions and I encourage you, Madam Minister-in-Charge, to continue efforts in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u52	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u53	On the macroeconomic front, the recovery is there. However, enthusiasm must be tempered by two factors: on the one hand, the magnitude of the recession that hit our country in 2020, and, on the other hand, the obstacles that complicate the activity of certain companies and sectors. The recovery of the economy has been accompanied by the emergence of shortages of raw materials and labour; Several months ago, I warned about this risk. Inflation on the margins of businesses and households must now be added. In this context, the end of the "no matter what" must not sign the abandonment of support for economic actors. On the contrary, it is necessary to help them cope with their economic difficulties and to create the necessary conditions for sustainable growth. This morning, the missions we're looking at a little bit thinly pursue these objectives with varying degrees of success. For example, we find it very inadequate to support companies in dealing with the upsurge in energy prices. Some, such as electro-intensive companies, are supported under the carbon compensation scheme; In this regard, I welcome the Government's amendment to increase this aid by EUR 150 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u54	That's a good measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u55	But the vast majority will have to settle for the tariff shield and the 4 % limit on the regulated electricity tariff. Some industries, whose energy consumption is incompressible and their margins very tight, fear that this will be insufficient in the context of a general price increase. With regard to the Economy mission, I wish to reiterate my disappointment at the abolition of the intervention fund for services, crafts and commerce – FISAC – in rural areas, in mountain areas or in the priority areas of city policy (QPV).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u56	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u57	I have tabled an amendment on this subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u58	It helped to maintain the vitality of the economic fabric. The Small Cities of Tomorrow programme will not be as effective as it will replace this essential mechanism in support of craft businesses and local businesses, since it does not apply to all the territories where they are located. I would also like to refer to the very high-speed France plan, launched with the ambition to cover the entire national territory by 2022. A few months before the deadline, it is time to take stock of this: significant efforts have been made to bring high-speed broadband to our citizens, who now have almost 80% to dispose of it. But the last straight line, which concerns the remaining 20%, is the most difficult one to navigate and calls for our vigilance. I would like to remind operators of their obligations and, to ARCEP and the Government, of their ability to compel or even punish them in case of non-compliance. I will also say a word about a crucial issue for the economic sphere: the end of the Solidarity Fund for enterprises, independents, entrepreneurs and the prospect of the repayment of loans guaranteed by the State. We must be vigilant about the financial situation of many companies so that, within a few months, they do not find themselves massively faced with a debt wall. I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the France 2030 plan. At the time of his announcement, in the context of pre-campaign, the President of the Republic had revealed an envelope of 30 billion over five years to bring out the champions of tomorrow. Today, we are aware of the amendments tabled by the Government and we discover that the programming period runs from 2022 to 2030, eight years instead of five years. These approximations reveal a problem of method and precipitation surrounding this plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u60	The fact that the text of an amendment to abound by several billions the France 2030 plan is being tabled without prior consultation or impact assessment shows, once again, a lack of regard for Parliament, and more generally too much verticality of power. We regret it all the more because we share some of the broad guidelines set out in this plan. Moreover, some of my attention is particularly focused, such as the goal of producing in France the first low-carbon aircraft by 2030. I regret that my amendment to strengthen the appropriations for the biofuels sector within the Investment for the Future mission, in order to speed up the green recovery of the aviation sector, has been declared inadmissible, while there is an urgent need to structure a French sector when others are working on it. We have, of course, taken note of the President of the Republic's desire to strengthen nuclear research and development, particularly small reactors. This objective must not lose sight of another imperative, namely to guarantee the safety of the existing nuclear fleet: power plants now require massive investments. [[Valérie Rabault and Sébastien Jumel applaud]] These few positive points are not enough to eliminate the shortcomings and shortcomings of your economic policy. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will not vote for the adoption of the appropriations for these two missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u61	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u62	Good morning, Madam Deputy Minister. The budget of the mission Economy is studied in the absence of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery; It seems surprising to me, but I will act as if he were there. Minister, you, who are a literate, know this figure of style which is called lipogram and which consists, for the least literate of this Chamber, of writing a whole text by forcing yourself to banish a letter or a word from it. Thus, Georges Pérec, in his novel La Disparition, did not use any "e" in 300 pages. You're a disciple of your kind. Take the energy crisis, the explosion of oil, which inspires the Échos this title: "Record beaten: the liter of diesel has never been so expensive in France". The roundabouts woke up, you and your Prime Minister took the floor, you left 100 euros to the French but without saying the name of Total once. Total which, according to the press, "cardboard: net profit multiplied by 23"; Total that "takes full advantage [...] of the historical outbreak" of hydrocarbons; Total whose stock market price rises by 20% in one month; Total paying 8 billion dividends to its shareholders, i.e. nearly 300 euros per French household; Anyway, Total's messing up! But at no time did you say: "we will tax Total" or "Total must lower the price of gasoline" or "Total will pay the 3 billion fuel cheques". None of this comes to mind – or perhaps to the mind, but not to your mouth. In any case, you keep your mouth sewn: silence on Total, motus on companies and their CEOs, string shooters must remain in the shadows... Another outbreak can be reported, that of fortunes. In a year of health crisis, while the students were queued for a food parcel, that the caregivers were wrapped in plastic bags, that the families were mourning their deaths, the French billionaires saw their fortune rise – how much? You know this: 68%, or 300 billion more assets, while the CAC 40 reached its Himalaya beyond 7,000 points. Did you propose a tax on the profitors of this crisis, a special Amazon tax so that the super-rich empty a bit of their pockets, in order, for example, to finance the hospital to save it? Never. The words "billionaires", "fortune", "rich" or even "shareholders" do not exist in your dictionary: they are banned, they could be upset just to name them, a bit like Voldemort in Harry Potter, the one whose name should not be pronounced. Yet, these 68%, these 7,000 points are huge, colossal, gigantic, big as a cow in the middle of the corridor – but you don't want to see it. [[Mr. Sébastien Jumel laughs]] This stealth sometimes turns into a comic. One evening last February, during your hearing in the Committee on Economic Affairs, my colleague Sébastien Jumel asked you about the Open Lux scandal: "How 15000 of our fellow citizens can enable 4% of GDP to escape tax? Minister, [...] will you put an end to this scandal? When you answered us in a grouped way, you by chance, by coincidence, forgot this question. So Sébastien insisted: "What do you have to say about the Luxembourg scandal? You just said, "Can you clarify your question? Sébastien told you: "France Info has revealed that 15,000 nationals escape tax by placing their assets in offshore companies in Luxembourg. This allows 4% of GDP to escape tax. Minister, you just let go: "I will check this information. I don't have a specific answer for you right now. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u63	I'm still waiting for the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u64	It's surreal, do you realize that? The Open Lux scandal is the front page of all the newspapers, the big French families – Mulliez, Hermès and Arnault – are quoted. Our country is stolen 4% of its GDP, but only one man ignores it or wants to ignore it: you, the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. "Well, tax fraud? Where? After nine months, what answers have my colleague Sébastien Jumel called for? Did you check that information? In front of this giant robbery, what investigations have you conducted? How many searches and police were conducted? You should be the head of the economic police, imposing rules, laws, limits for all, even for large families, even for their businesses. The truth is, instead of protecting us and defending our country, you're the accomplice of these bandits in costume.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u65	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u66	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u67	Following the intervention of my excellent colleague Sébastien Jumel on industrial issues, I will address two crucial issues: the investment programmes of the future and their articulation with the major communication plan called France 2030, as well as the issue of public debt. While we had already begun the examination of the PLF for 2022 for several weeks, the President of the Republic, during one of the major communication shows that he loves so much, specified the contours of an umpteenth France 2030 investment plan. I say umpteenth because let us remember, in 2017, first was announced the great investment plan – GPI – of 57 billion euros over five years, followed by the France plan to relaunch 5 billion announced in 2020 and, finally, the new France 2030 plan of 30 billion over five or eight years. It must be recognized that this majority excels in the art of smoking. But beyond the big publicity effects, communication is not enough. And when it comes to clarifying the concrete modalities for implementing this plan, you are less present. Indeed, it is difficult to find a trace of this in the budgetary appropriations of the 2017 major investment plan. It seems that within the Investment for the Future mission, the IAP 3, with 10 billion in 2017, has been the subject of budgetary vehicles aimed at implementing it. But, in reality, it is difficult to be certain of this, since some of the appropriations were already planned and, in any case, we are far from reaching 57 billion. With regard to the recovery plan, of course, the creation of the fiscal mission Recovery plan has led to greater visibility. Yet, the $100 billion over two years is far from being achieved, as the Mission had only $36 billion in commitment authority in 2021. The recovery plan was also to be based on programmes of the future, including IAP 4 amounting to EUR 11 billion. However, they were already included in the IAP as soon as it was created in 2020 and, in fact, they were only linked to the bottling of the recovery plan. You will gladly practice recycling, much less innovation! In its obsessive communication or communicative obsession, the Government has even dared to publicly welcome the generous granting of 11.5 per cent of the 100 billion in stimulus to the so-called Overseas Territories, which yet account for 4 per cent of the French population. Here we are now in France 2030. Will this plan suffer the same fate as the GPI or will it, like the recovery plan, be partially disbursed with reallocations of funds? As I write these lines, the Investment for the Future mission had only EUR 3.5 billion in payment appropriations, of which EUR 1.5 billion was dedicated to IPA 4, and we were still suspended from the government amendment. It finally arrived on Thursday, 4 November, at seven o'clock, more than a month after the PLF was deposited; It opens 35 billion commitment authorities, representing 5% of the total commitment authority in the finance bill. It is a real democratic scandal and a profound contempt for parliamentary work! In conclusion, I would like to address the creation of a new budgetary programme within the mission of the State's financial commitments, devoted to the cantonment of the State's public debt. As we have said on several occasions, seeking to repay part of the stock of debt makes no sense: with a co-divided debt of 165 billion euros and an annual repayment of 2 billion euros as this year, it will take eighty-two years to repay it. You will agree that this is absurdity. Worse, in the absence of the creation of a compulsory levy on debt relief, the repayment of the limited debt, amounting to 1.9 billion in 2022, leads only to one thing: to increase the public deficit by reallocating current resources to the repayment of the debt stock. In a situation of covid inflation, this inequitable mechanism will inevitably lead to a decline in public spending that will affect the poorest households, especially in the poorest so-called overseas territories, where dependencies and vulnerabilities are becoming increasingly clear and maintained by the State. After such a presentation, is it necessary to say that my group will vote against all the appropriations for the missions examined today?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u68	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u69	The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) forecasts French growth of 6.3 per cent in 2021 and 4 per cent in 2022; It is probably no coincidence that these are the best figures in the euro area. These results, we owe them to our government's constant efforts towards businesses since 2017, with the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law, but also a massive investment in digital infrastructure, the New Deal mobile and fiber, and the massive €100 billion recovery plan, oriented towards the transformation of our economy – environmental transition, digital transition and business transformation. We must thank all the services and agents of the State, the consular agents, the employers' and professionals' unions who have mobilized and are still doing so to support the ETIs, SMEs, TPEs, traders and artisans, and to ensure that the aid arrives where it is needed. This momentum must continue and we can only be satisfied with the sharp increase in the appropriations of the Economy mission for the year 2022, reaching EUR 3.25 billion for commitment authorisations, an increase of 56.4% and 3.86 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 43.3%. We must add the 3.5 billion for 2022 out of the 34 billion France 2030. I will focus on three points: infrastructure and the digital transition, development to export and finally the annual budget allocation of La Poste. Let's start with the digital transition. With the New Deal mobile and France's high-speed plan, deployments have accelerated since 2018. This allowed us to hold during confinements and proved to be vital. In 2022, all French people will have access to high-speed broadband, and thanks to the recovery plan, in 2025, France will be fibrated to 100%, as I had advocated in my reports, as Mr Éric Bothorel and Mrs Laure de la Raudière, now president of ARCEP, did. We can be proud of this true success, which places France among the best equipped countries in Europe. We are particularly attentive to the investment of companies in digital and robotics: they can benefit from an exceptional tax deduction in order to accompany them to the industries of the future, which are also the subject of the investments of the France 2030 plan. However, these investments will only be productive if accompanied by a massive training plan. The France 2030 plan plans to spend 2.5 billion on this. These trainings will have to benefit all the public, with particular attention to women, young people and seniors. I'm going to export development. We can welcome the fact that, despite the difficult economic situation, the number of French exporting companies continues to rise. According to customs, more than 135 000 firms export abroad, almost 8000 more in one year. The efforts of the Team France Export, as well as the support provided by the export recovery cheques and the VIE recovery cheques show here their effects. In 2022, 14.8 million in payment appropriations are still planned. As our colleague Antoine Herth points out in his report, the budget allocated to Business France is in line with the 2018-2022 target and means contract, and if we can pay tribute to the performance of this operator, the monthly results of our foreign trade show how much this effort should be pursued. In September 2021, Minister Bruno Le Maire wanted this to become our priority for the coming years. The combined efforts of France 2030, as well as the new conditions of fairness in our trade agreements, must contribute to this. I'll finish by talking about La Poste. The 2020 crisis has accelerated the evolution of usage. Thus, the collapse of mail by 18% created a deficit of EUR 1.1 billion on La Poste's public service mission. The Commission, aware of the need to transform the company, therefore welcomes the exceptional allocation of 520 million and the sustainability of the amount of 174 million in compensation for the universal postal service obligation. I am a member of the Senior Digital and Posts Commission (NSPC), which also approves this effort. However, there is concern about the financing of the press transport and distribution mission entrusted to the La Poste group. The compensation of 16.1 million falls far short of the recommendations of the Giannesini report; It is probably necessary to continue the discussion on this point. In conclusion, the Economy mission of the 2022 finance bill and the France 2030 plan show great consistency with the actions of the 2020 massive recovery plan, in order to continue the necessary transformation of our economy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en Marche group will therefore enthusiastically vote for the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u70	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u71	This budget of the Economy mission is the last of a legislature marked by promises: promise of innovation, promise of competitiveness and promise of modernity. With low competitiveness, an industry exposed to all the winds of unfair competition, inaccessible innovation and territorial wealth in perdition, not only the economic renewal of France has not come, but a deep feeling of injustice, aroused by the false oaths of the President, feeds popular distrust against the entire political and institutional class. In 2017, candidate Emmanuel Macron presented himself as the actor of economic progress, but the strategy has been sorely lacking over the last five years. The few developments scattered by a policy without coherence have not served a greater purpose, that of curing the social, economic and territorial divides of our nation. The disembodied vision of production proposed by the President and his majority is growth without prosperity, innovation without foresight, profit without investment. The objective of the Economy budget mission is to build the foundation of production for the benefit of the general interest. But the general interest in France, at present, is industry: to regain our 2 million industrial jobs lost in 30 years; regain the soul of our regions emptied of their factories; create conditions of prosperity for our businesses, especially for middle-sized companies. On the evening of this legislature, our duty as parliamentarians is to draw the conclusions of five years of economic and social error. The policy pursued so far is that of small steps on an uncertain path. When the return of our taxes to European standards takes away some crumbs of competitiveness, the hourly cost of French industrial work remains 72% higher than in Spain. When innovation becomes a priority for the President of the start-up nation, no one in the government is in a position to build an industrial policy that goes beyond mere fiscal sprinkling. When Emmanuel Macron promised in 2017 a "real Marshall plan for the reindustrialization of our economically lost territories", neither the executive nor the presidential majority were able to counter the expansion of industrial, cultural and medical deserts. Madam Deputy Minister, through this budget, you are administering the shortage. Bruno Le Maire called for a consolidation of public finances once the health crisis had been alleviated. Yet, with his France 2030 plan, for example, the President of the Republic maintains the illusion that the state can play the role of an omniscient planner, from food to space. It is not with EUR 30 billion in five years, or EUR 6 billion per year, i.e. 1% of the State's annual budget, that we will bring industries back, that we will give back opportunities to those who have lost their jobs, who have lost their trade, who have lost, in short, the basis of national cohesion. Moreover, France 2030 is only the small electoral sister of the €57 billion investment plan launched in 2017 and has since fallen into the limbs of your administration. The Economy mission of the 2022 Finance Bill illustrates the shortcomings of your public action. It is a technocratic mission whose objectives, indicators and programmes offer no vision for France. Who, after four years of action, will be able to define your economic programme? No one, because you don't see anything beyond the numbers! This mission of the budget also reveals your ignorance of the intermediate bodies. The professional economic associations talk to you, you don't listen to them. They require more strategic productions and less administrative carcans: you offer them exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u73	You will fail to form an enlightened nation for its economy. Contrary to what you say, we are not content to criticize your policy or to incantate: during this legislature, the Republican Group has tabled more than thirty bills to safeguard our economy. Our compass is clear: we want a man-made economy, industrial progress in the service of just and lasting prosperity. In short, we want everyone to find their interest in the company's interests. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] With this budget, France doesn't go anywhere, it's out there and dark in the myth of magic money. As long as you are not able to ask yourself what should be the purpose of the public service of the economy, this budget will miss its target. That is why we will not vote for the appropriations of the Economy mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u74	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u75	I will focus on France 2030 and the investment programme for the future, but I will also go back to the economic policy we have been pursuing for the past four years, because the words we have just heard call for some precise and rigorous answers. For several decades, all governments have neglected the French industry, allowing it to weaken and relocate its productions. These decades of industrial capitulation have led France to empty entire territories of their wealth, to massively destroy jobs, to lose its sovereignty in key sectors such as health or electronics. In order to break this decline, the President of the Republic has deployed a proactive and determined strategy for the reindustrialization of France and the localization in France of new and efficient industries. We are not afraid to say that the Government assumes the industrial vocation of France: it is an issue of economic power and strategic autonomy, but it is also a political vision. Industry is the backbone of our economy: it does not take all the place, but it ensures the cohesion of our economic fabric. Thus, 70 per cent of industrial jobs are located in cities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, in rural and peripheral areas, in sometimes abandoned territories. The industry creates wealth in these territories, and offers attractive jobs, with three times fewer employees paid to SMIC than in the private sector as a whole. Industry is also 20% of greenhouse gas emissions, but 100% of the solutions to decarbonize our activities – because it is industry that will develop the carbon-free responses in the areas of mobility, construction, agriculture, solutions that can be accessible to millions, even billions of French and foreign citizens. [[Anne-Laure Blin, draftswoman for opinion, protested]] The strategy of the President of the Republic initially aimed to make his attractiveness at the site France. It's about time! This requires a reduction in taxation, in order to return to a level of compulsory levies similar to that of our European competitors: that is why we have reduced corporate taxes, capital taxes and production taxes – for the latter, the decrease is 10 billion. It's new. It also involves labour orders, which have created hundreds of thousands of jobs and created industrial employment. Finally, this involves the Government's efforts to simplify administrative procedures, through the Law for a State Serving a Trusted Society (ESSOC), the Law on Business Growth and Transformation (PACTE), and the Law on Acceleration and Simplification of Public Action (ASAP). This strategy is also based on investments in innovation, as evidenced by the Research Programming Act or the fourth investment plan for the future. The IAP, as you know, was hired more than ten years ago; It has gone through several legislatures and has proved to be a relevant tool to support the life cycle of innovation, from the emergence of an idea to the dissemination of a new product or service. The electrolyzers of McPhy, which is expected to start in the coming months the construction of its first gigafactory in Belfort, or the development of offshore wind turbine plants in Saint-Nazaire and Cherbourg, have been among the technological bets supported by the PIA; The results are hundreds of skilled jobs that contribute to our ecological transition. These advances have been made possible by massive and structuring support for our higher education, research and innovation ecosystem, whose impact is demonstrated by our progress in the Shanghai ranking or by our position gained in recent years at the top of European venture capital. I recall here that more than fifty start-ups of the French Tech 120 programme have been accompanied by investments of the future; About 20 of them are part of the Next 40. For these reasons, the Government launched last year a fourth component of the IAP, with €20 billion. The logic was twofold: on the one hand, to continue and deepen support for innovation ecosystems; on the other hand, and this vision of a strategist state is new, to develop a section directed towards the key markets of tomorrow, 5G, electric batteries or sustainable power supply and agricultural systems of the future, for which I announced last Friday, along with Julien Denormandie and Frédérique Vidal, an accompaniment of 880 million euros. And these policies have borne fruit: hundreds of thousands of jobs have been created in all sectors, particularly in industry. France has become the most attractive country for industrial investment in Europe, with 624 relocation projects. Finally, we are breaking with thirty years of industrial surrender. The facts are stubborn. It's about time. The special period that we have just experienced has shown us that we can be much more ambitious: the pace of innovation and its transfer to industry is accelerating in unprecedented proportions, as a result of the digital and environmental revolutions in the world. Having a strong and competitive industry rooted in our territories, which has been the policy of the President of the Republic for more than four years, is certainly the key to remaining masters of our destiny. France 2030 sets a strong ambition: to prepare tomorrow's France by accelerating investment in the industrial sectors of the future and by accompanying the transformation of our entire productive fabric. This is the sine qua non for preserving our social model and achieving full employment tomorrow. This plan is unprecedented in more than one way: by the importance of the financial resources that the Government proposes to adopt this morning; by its report on risk as an essential condition for its success; by its method of elaboration, since it is the result of collective work involving students, researchers, academics, managers of professional organisations, trade unions, entrepreneurs, sectors, investors, parliamentarians and administrations. Let us not forget that this plan is based on more than a year of consultation around the productive pact, and that it has been the subject of very many public consultations over the last three months. It is not a question of being leaders everywhere, but of choosing priorities – decarbonizing, better treating, better eating, better moving – and concentrating on them means of an unprecedented scale, with two central objectives: to be able to take risks to finance breakthrough innovations; be particularly attentive to making these supports accessible to emerging players, start-ups, SMEs and ETIs with real innovations. We accompany these small businesses, but they are destined to become the major groups of 2030 and 2040. Take a company like Metex, supported by the state since its inception in 1999; It has grown and bought from Amiens a subsidiary of a Japanese industrial multinational in order to revitalize it and transform it into a pioneer of green chemistry. This is the result we want to multiply and accelerate with France 2030. Within the framework of France 2030, ten targets have been set. Precisely, they bear witness to a vision of a strategist state that has long been lacking in France. The first is to develop clean energy and the transition to a decarbonised economy, in a logic of complementarity between low carbon technologies – nuclear, with EUR 1 billion, green hydrogen and renewables, with 2.3 billion – and the decarbonisation of our industry, with 5 billion. A second set of objectives is to support the greening of key sectors, such as the automotive industry – we hope to produce nearly 2 million electric and hybrid vehicles in France by 2030, thanks to public support of 2.6 billion euros. France 2030 will also invest 1.2 billion in low-carbon aircraft production. A third set of objectives is to support the food and agri-food sectors, for a healthy, sustainable and traceable diet of 1.5 billion. We also want to regain our leadership position in certain sectors. I am thinking of producing cultural and creative content, with 600 million euros. The France 2030 plan also incorporates the public efforts already announced by the President of the Republic in the field of health: €3 billion will be invested to produce 20 biomedicines by 2030, especially against cancer. Finally, we want to open up new borders: 1.5 billion euros will allow France to play its full part in the new space adventure, and 300 million euros will make it possible to invest the field of the seabed. To achieve these ten objectives, France 2030 must also invest to create the conditions for success: secure access to critical raw materials for the new technologies we are developing; deploy national solutions for digital and smart machines, which will be at the heart of the productions to be launched in order to remain sustainable competitive; training women and men who will be indispensable for the development of these new industrial sectors. Unsurprisingly, this plan has an unprecedented budget: EUR 30 billion, plus EUR 4 billion of own funds. These investments must lead to an increase in potential growth, wealth created in our territories and jobs in France. To achieve this, we have chosen three simple principles: excellence, selectivity and transparency. We also accept our strong support for the industrialization of innovations, and not just for the innovations themselves, as Amendment No 2389, which is well translated to you. In order to ensure that this approach is consistent with that of the future investment programme, unified governance was considered necessary; We will also propose to consolidate the appropriations within the same budget mission. This will also facilitate your follow-up work. To invest in the long term, visibility is needed. This is why it is proposed that all of France 2030's commitment authorisations should be included as of this initial finance law for 2022. It is also proposed to include the €3.5 billion of payment appropriations that can be committed from the beginning of 2022. I assure you, Mr Brun: the quality of the implementation of the recovery plan shows it, the appropriations will be deployed in time and in time. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As you understand, France 2030 is a win-win plan: winner for the environment, winner for our independence, winner for innovative companies, winner for the industry. The first will of the President of the Republic is that all French people benefit from this plan, for their employment as well as in their daily lives, since we are also laying down the conditions for a better life on a daily basis. A country's ambition is valid only if it benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u76	I'm calling the credits from the Economy Mission, listed in Statement B. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 2704.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u77	This amendment provides for the introduction of an advance system for carbon compensation. The European emission allowance system is, as you know, one of the instruments for European action on climate protection: emissions from the industrial sectors covered by the mechanism within the European Union are capped at a certain level, which is decreasing from year to year, in line with the Union's climate commitments; Each year, an equivalent volume of emission allowances is issued, which industrialists must acquire in a market where trade is free. This mechanism allows, in theory, emission reductions to be achieved where they can be achieved at the lowest cost through the use of the market. For the industrial sectors covered by this system, however, exposure to international competition may lead to carbon leakage through competition with other producers outside the Union that are able to export cheaper products to the Union because they do not incorporate carbon costs. This is particularly the case for electro-intensive industrialists. Specific aid to limit these carbon leakages may be provided to the sectors concerned at national level. In the context of a sharp increase in the price of carbon tonne, it is proposed, in addition to the aid paid in respect of the previous year, to allow the payment of an advance representing a share of the aid due in respect of the current year. This advance would be granted from the financial year 2022; To this end, we call for an increase of EUR 150 million, in commitment and payment appropriations, of the appropriations of programme 134 Enterprise development and regulation. We will thus strengthen the cash flow of companies during the year, as they face a sharp increase in their energy bills. This aid would represent a rate of approximately 24.45 % of the additional aid to be paid in respect of the year 2022. This is indeed an advance of part of the public expenditure on the scheme which would have been paid in 2023 in respect of the costs incurred by the industrialists during the year 2022. This advance payment mechanism would be implemented annually; We will therefore propose, by amendment No 2701, to include it in the Energy Code, which already contains the provisions relating to the compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u78	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u79	Xavier Roseren and I are in favour of this amendment – on a personal basis, since it has not been discussed by the committee. This carbon compensation mechanism supports the competitiveness of companies competing with companies outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u80	I call Mr. Fabrice Brun, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u81	With regard to the emissions quota system, Madam Minister Delegate, you are proposing that an advance be paid to companies with high electricity consumption, which will see their costs increase with the cost of carbon quotas. This cash flow aid seems to me to be needed more than ever for the electro-intensive companies in our country, which consume highly decarbonated electricity, largely from nuclear power. It would be unfair for our companies to suffer from an unfair quota system in view of this decarbonisation of their electricity consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u82	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u83	I welcome this amendment, which really goes in the right direction, since rising energy prices have absolutely terrible consequences for industry, particularly electro-intensive industries. In some sectors, energy accounts for half of the cost of production, so that today some industries have margins on negative variable costs: producing them costs more than doing nothing... This means that factories are at a standstill. In the ammonia industry, 40% of European production capacity is involved. Ammonia is necessary for the agri-food industry, for agriculture too, as it produces nitrogen fertilizers – and here we have all heard about the difficulties in supplying farmers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This amendment will therefore relieve the energy-intensive industries, which will be able to remain competitive and avoid closing production lines – these closures, I repeat, have very important industrial and economic consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u84	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u85	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u86	This amendment is presented to us at the last moment. Could you please specify how many companies will be affected by the aid you are proposing, Madam Deputy Minister, and on the basis of which carbon price the amount of EUR 150 million has been calculated?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u87	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u88	Just under 450 companies will be involved, and the calculation has been based on the current price of the tonne of carbon. Instead of applying a one-year lag, as usual, it is therefore a matter of integrating the sharp increase in the price of the tonne of carbon from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u89	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u90	I would point out that this amendment has not been discussed in committee. We are faced with various contradictions: we must increase the price of carbon and limit energy consumption, some industries have an intensive need for electricity but use non-carbonated electricity... Mr Brun has explained this well. Beyond measures to compensate for changes in carbon prices, it would be interesting for the Government to express a broader vision: how does it intend to preserve the competitiveness of companies outside the European market? What does it foresee for the future, beyond adaptation to the immediate economic situation? This amendment calls for such questioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u91	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 2415, 2446 and 2516. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2415.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u92	Presented by Charles de Courson, it aims to create a national support fund for crafts and community-based commerce, dedicated to investments in the modernization of production and marketing tools, including digitization, renovation, upgrading and accessibility of premises, as well as the financing of protective measures related to the health crisis of local businesses. In line with my statement at the rostrum, this amendment seeks to remedy the abolition of FISAC and to better support commercial and craft enterprises in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u93	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 2446.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u94	It is important to recall the importance of crafts and the local economy in the territories, whether in volume – the sector represents many players, who have taken risks – or for their economic and social utility. Since the abolition of FISAC – a bad decision taken a few years ago – there is no concrete, easily accessible mechanism that helps these companies to finance modernisation work, to comply with regulatory standards and constraints or to strengthen their competitiveness through digitisation. The support fund that we are proposing to create would have its full meaning in addition to the other schemes, which have the merit of existing but which do not compensate for the abolition of FISAC.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u95	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2516.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u96	Crafts, commerce and small businesses represent no less than 10 million jobs in France, compared with only 4.5 million for large groups. Let us therefore keep the importance of this sector to a minimum: it is France's first company.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u97	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u98	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u99	I can only join you in the need to strengthen the digitisation of the economy and businesses, whether they are artisanal or industrial. I shall, however, express an unfavorable opinion on your amendments, which the committee has not considered. Indeed, the Government had already established several mechanisms in that area, which were working perfectly well. Digitalisation is thus supported by the France Recovery Plan. Among other examples, SMEs and TPEs have benefited from the digital cheque to cover their digitisation costs: this initiative has reached more than 110000 companies, for 120 million euros, and the France Relaunch Plan still provides France Num with 14 million euros of credit for this purpose. The support of the State is not only financial: the Connect your box initiative is a great success, the DGE carries out awareness-raising actions and BPIFrance conducts personalized diagnostics. I do not deny the usefulness of a debate on the digitization of the economy, but the mechanisms I have just listed demonstrate that it is already a priority objective for the Government and the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u101	In addition to the remarks made by the Special Rapporteur, I would like to point out that the 2015 law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRE law, has established the competence of the regions in the field of economic development. The latter have committed more than 2.6 billion euros, including 774 million for industry, crafts, trade and other business services. Since many elected officials advocate decentralization, words and actions must be coherent. FISAC has turned off, but other devices support digitization. To those already mentioned by the Special Rapporteur, I will add the national programmes Action Cœur de Ville and Small Cities of tomorrow, which adopt a more comprehensive approach – because the dynamics of trade and crafts depend on the economic activity of the city centres and rural areas. Also included are measures in the support plan for small businesses in rural areas: tax exemptions offset by the State to 33%, financial support for the deployment of 150 third-party locations and 1000 cafes, creation of new IV licenses... All this is led by the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories (ANCT), within the framework of the rural agenda. We are therefore taking decisive action, well aware that the fabric of artisans is absolutely essential to the economy of the country – Mr Benoit rightly pointed out. Of course, we are not following the path of FISAC, but that does not prevent us from moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u102	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u103	Trade and crafts are in the national interest and in the general interest. Your answer is evidence of a state disengagement in this area that is intolerable for local and regional authorities. Regardless of our law and the economic competence vested in the regions, the State has a major responsibility in such essential areas as crafts and local commerce. We have a deep divergence here: we will never agree to transfer the "hot potato" of these financings to local and regional authorities! While there is a plethora of devices – a toolbox where you can get lost – the FISAC was removed without being replaced, while all evaluations showed its relevance. The purpose of our amendment is simply to supplement the offer for the benefit of the craft industry. Unfortunately, you are opposing us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u104	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u105	Our amendment is not just about the digitisation of companies, Madam Special Rapporteur, although it is an important issue. Our proposal is much broader, as it aims to restore FISAC. There is no inconsistency between decentralization and the fact that the State supports local businesses, trade and crafts. When he still consented, it created a leverage effect and helped unlock many files; This incentive effect, coordinated with the action of the territories, was appreciated and recognised by all actors. Finally, by replacing FISAC with the Action coeur de ville and Small Cities of tomorrow programmes, which concern about 200 and 1500 municipalities respectively, you miss the target of commercial and craft enterprises, which far exceed these devices. In Tarn-et-Garonne, for example, FISAC helped municipalities that are not eligible for Action coeur de ville, or small towns of tomorrow. It is important and urgent for the Government to take up this subject and to assist commercial and craft enterprises, which have specific needs and do not necessarily fall within the scope of ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u106	Mrs Bessot Ballot, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u107	I chaired the Union des commerces, industriels et artisans du canton de Marnay when FISAC was created. In my village of 1800 inhabitants, not only were many traders not entitled to FISAC, but those who were eligible for FISAC were subjected to a complex and poorly linked procedure, in which the money was paid very late. Ultimately, those most targeted did not necessarily benefit. FISAC had a good intention...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u108	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u109	... but it was not operational – I experienced it myself, since I used this envelope for my fellow traders in my territory. The city centre action programs or 1000 cafes are much more effective in helping traders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u110	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u111	It is a shame to have let FISAC go, for it was known to all and spoke to traders as well as to the elected ones; It had become a kind of mark, at a time when so many technocratic devices are not talking to anyone. From year to year, FISAC was the subject of debate – some thought it was insufficient, others too high, others criticized its distribution... – but at least it was known to all. We should have it reborn, under the name FISAC, by correcting what was not working. This could go, among other things, through the Action Cœur de ville programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u112	Mr Fabrice Brun, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 785.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u113	While some colleagues have had an unconvincing experience with FISAC – they have reported it in the Finance Committee – that is not my case, and I am obviously not the only one – the interventions of Valérie Rabault, Sylvia Pinel, Stéphane Viry and Éric Woerth testify to this. We want to relaunch this fund for services, crafts and commerce, which has proved its worth: it was jointly managed by chambers of commerce and industry, chambers of commerce and crafts and local authorities, it supported concrete projects and was recognised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u114	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u115	We are not unaware of the consequences of the NOTRE law on the powers of the regions in terms of economic development, but can the state be absent from concrete projects such as the revitalization of shopping streets and vacant shops in city centres and town centres – an issue that mobilizes many communities? Relaunching FISAC would not only strengthen the Coeur de ville and Small Cities operations of tomorrow, but also broaden the target, as many traders and artisans do not fit into these devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u117	This amendment comes back every year. We share the concern to preserve economic activity throughout the territories, and in particular to support local businesses. However, FISAC is not the most effective way to achieve this: it is no longer adapted to needs, for several reasons. The first is that under the NOTRE Act, economic development is now the responsibility of the regions. Second, these budgetary expenditures were not tailored to the needs of the local economy. When I was elected local, I had the opportunity to follow a few long-term projects under FISAC: given the slowness of decisions, this was not at all effective. It would be even less so in a period of crisis such as that we are going through with the epidemic of covid -19. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u119	Unfavorable opinion, too. Let me recall that this amendment aims to abound FISAC to the tune of EUR 14 million. The State's action in favour of artisanal and commercial enterprises is much more powerful: 60 million euros are thus dedicated to commercial land, outside the programmes Small cities of tomorrow and Action cœur de ville, which shows that there are many mechanisms in this field – I must make it clear for the rigour of our debates; 120 million are earmarked for the digitisation of TPE-SMEs, bringing the total to 180 million, to which 650 million should be added for the rehabilitation of wasteland which, of course, does not concern exclusively small traders and artisans...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u120	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u121	... but which they still benefit in part in the context of operations in the city centre, some of which have already been deployed. Finally, these arrangements translate quickly and concretely into the territory, which is a big difference with FISAC, as has already been pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u122	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u123	We have a real divergence on the question: FISAC irrigated the territory much better than the current arrangements – the answer was relevant in rural areas, it must be recognized – and also allowed collective action, through territorial alliances concluded to strengthen economic development. None of the devices that you have put in place, Madam Deputy Minister, and of which we are joining you, is exactly in line with the purpose of the FISAC, which was working in the diagrams that I have just mentioned. The aim of this amendment is therefore simply to extend support not to a virtual cause, but to the territories, the local economy and the vitality of rural life – it is not nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u124	Mr Fabrice Brun, Special Rapporteur, spoke in support of Amendments Nos 2447 and 2448, which could be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u125	I will defend them one after the other, the second being an amendment of withdrawal. First of all, I would like to point out that the export component of the recovery plan will not reach the € 247 million promised. Colleagues in the gallery this morning quoted this figure, but it is not true: in view of the under-executions, the reality will be closer to 180 million. Indeed, the prospecting insurance has not completely managed to take off as planned, given the closure of the borders. Your services estimate the under-consumption to be EUR 71 million, Madam Deputy Minister, which shows that the export side of the recovery plan will be around EUR 180 million. If export is a priority, the € 247 million package promised under the recovery plan should be sanctified. That is why I propose to shift some of the unconsumed credits for the year 2020 to the export recovery cheque, whose demand is expected to explode in the coming months with the reopening of borders with the United States and other countries – and that is what Business France is all about. The export recovery cheque can be up to €2,500 to finance participation in a trade fair under the French flag, for example; It is all the more important that it allows French companies to match their European competitors, who often benefit from such an advantage and finance very little, up to less than 10%, their travel abroad when French companies pay at least 50% of the cost. In fact, I think that the export recovery cheque should be an export check, simply, and that it should be sacralised and operational throughout the year 2022, as the recovery is real and borders are now reopening in the United States, which will lead to an important need. In addition, next spring will be marked by important electoral deadlines and a new Parliament will emerge from the ballot box in June. There will certainly be other priorities to be addressed by that date. So let us put in place now the necessary tools for companies, in particular the export recovery check, which I propose to perpetuate by sacralising the € 247 million originally planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u126	On Amendment No 2448, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u127	Unfavorable opinion. As you know, the Government is taking decisive action to ensure that public policies to support companies' exports are strongly strengthened – several of you have praised the effectiveness of the Team France Export,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u128	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u129	... which came from the export plan announced by the previous Prime Minister. As far as the appropriations are concerned, I want to reassure you, Mr Brun: beyond the fact that we are discussing the appropriations of the mission Economy and that your amendment falls, in my opinion, rather under the mission Recovery plan, the €66 million of grants that Business France receives in the France Recovery plan are sank – so they will not disappear. You are right to stress under-consumption, but that will not prevent the use of credits. I would be very happy to see an explosion in export stocks. Secondly, with regard to export guarantee, these are assessment credits, so there will be no risk of shortages either. Finally, and this is valid for several schemes, I would point out that the date of 30 June 2022 was chosen in the France Recovery Plan because it corresponds to that towards which all the countries of the European Union converge in order to put an end to the specific framework of state aid deployed as a result of the health crisis. In the event of change, we would of course have to discuss it again, but at this stage the most logical proposal is emerging, even if it has not yet been adopted by the European Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u130	I should have given you the floor, Mr Roseren, to give the opinion of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u131	I am not a rapporteur on external trade issues, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u132	I guess your opinion doesn't differ from that of Mrs. Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u133	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u134	I call Mr. Fabrice Brun, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u135	Let me first express my surprise at the idea of having to consider in a few minutes a rather staggering amendment by the Government aimed at abunding from 34 billion euros to moeyn term the France 2030 plan, while we are unable to agree on an amount of between 70 and 80 million euros to sacralize the budgets of the export side of the recovery plan that the Government has promised to the companies and the actors concerned! Secondly, I maintain that there is a risk that there will be a shortage of funds: I am falsely against your remarks, Madam Deputy Minister. The borders are opening again and the demand is going to be massive. However, you confirm that the € 247 million is not entered. As far as state aid is concerned, let us make some benchmarking and observe what is happening around us: German, British or Italian companies are assisted by the public authorities at more than 90%, while our companies have to get their hands on it, since the financial support is close to 50% – it is a reality. On the basis of this observation, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this amendment and to sacrifice the € 247 million in order to give French companies the means to respond, in due course, to the recovery of growth. I have heard a lot of self-satisfaction on a few benches, but we cannot be happy to be one of the worst students in Europe, with an external trade deficit of EUR 68 billion, while Germans or Italians are showing insolent results because they know how to accompany their businesses. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u136	What is the opinion of the committee on your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u137	She didn't look at him, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u138	I put to the vote Amendment No 2448.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u139	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 10 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u140	I call Mr Denis Masséglia to support Amendment No. 2387.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u141	It follows from the report on economic diplomacy that I wrote in 2018 with our colleague from the group Les Républicains Pierre Cordier. Following our discussions with the field players, we proposed that companies wishing to export should be supported by young pensioners from the export sector, who would thus be able to pass on the expertise and experience gained throughout their careers. In order to validate this proposal, we suggest launching an experiment that would be conducted in the Pays de la Loire region and obtain the support of all the actors concerned. The Pays de la Loire region plans to spend € 200000. If I may say so, there is only one half FTE left to finance. This amendment therefore provides for €40000 for this funding in order to launch the experiment. It will then be validated – or not – depending on the feedback we should have within a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u143	Thank you, Mr Masséglia, for presenting this amendment. I already agree with you on one point: a company cannot develop in a sustainable way to export if it does not hire a person dedicated to this mission. We are well aware that a company manager of a TPE or an SME cannot do this on his own. You therefore take up one of the proposals you made with our colleague Pierre Cordier in the context of a report published in 2018, which in a way deals with a senior VIE. It is already the aim of young people's VIEs to develop exports within the companies that recruit them. In addition, there is already a network of foreign trade advisers, who are experienced executives – I take the opportunity to send them a friendly greeting, in particular to Mr.Aubert in Ardèche. This voluntary support already exists and allows companies to have informed advice on exporting. I do not know if your proposal would find its audience in addition to the scheme of the VIE young people and external trade advisers. However, I find it interesting, and that is why I will give a favourable opinion, even if the committee has not considered this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u145	I consider your amendment to be an appeal amendment. The Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs will have to examine this generational export sharing proposal in depth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u146	This is an experiment. We don't take much risk!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u147	The proposal raises a number of questions, in particular as regards the position of this mechanism vis-à-vis that of the external trade advisers. However, I undertake to ensure that it is studied in a timely manner by the departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, bearing in mind that, as you have understood, it is not the 40000 euros that are likely to block the process, this measure aimed at speeding up the export support of French companies. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable advice, but with the commitment to work on the process itself to try to find the most effective solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u148	Mr Denis Masséglia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u149	Deputy Minister, I hear your willingness to work collectively to implement this experiment. I will therefore come back to your services and those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u150	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to support Amendment No. 2581.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u151	The ultimate objective of France's very high-speed plan is the deployment of new end-to-end fibre optic networks throughout the country, subject to exceptional situations. However, not all territories were able to register from the beginning of this plan in order to benefit from the conditions offered in the first versions of the specifications. Mayotte is involuntarily in this case, because of his late departmentalization. It is therefore impossible to hope to increase the flow rate, especially since the arrival of the ADSL was only possible from 2012, after the connection of Mayotte by means of the Lion 2 submarine cable. In the absence of copper infrastructure for faster and easier deployment of fibre optics, it is clear that fibre optics, and even more connections, will cost the Maori community much more than anywhere else in the country. After catching up with some of its digital development delay following the connection of the island with a first submarine cable, and then a second, Lion 3, in 2019, the Mayotte department was finally able to work on its 100% fibre project. However, as the conditions of the France very high-speed plan have been considerably restricted since 2018, Mayotte, who could initially have benefited from 27 million euros under the 2015 version of this plan, sees its theoretical grant go down to 4.5 million euros in the version linked to the recovery plan. In order to ensure that Mayotte can fully participate in France's very high-speed plan, this amendment tends to abound action 01, Networks d'initiative publique, of programme 343, Plan France very high-speed, to the tune of € 22.5 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, and to reduce the appropriations for action 09, Pilotage, support and initial training, of programme 220, Statistics and economic studies, by € 22.5 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u153	I can already tell you that the France very high-speed plan enters into a phase of disbursement in 2022, in the continuity of 2021. During the hearings we conducted, we ensured that the ultramarine territories were subject, because of their remoteness from the metropolis, to special consideration. The appropriations available under programme 343 are sufficient, at this stage, to finance the needs identified under France's very high-speed plan. As the committee did not consider this amendment, my co-rapporteur and I ask for it to be withdrawn, but I will allow the Government to complete this reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u155	My answer will be twofold, because my colleague Cédric O has given me some additional information. First of all, I would like to reassure you, Madam Member: in the context of the announcements made by the Government in January 2021 on the reopening of the very high-speed France plan's window under the recovery plan, the territory of Mayotte was not at all forgotten, because we allocated it an additional amount of EUR 5 million, which is therefore in addition to what was foreseen in the initial budget model. I would also point out that we pay particular attention to the ultramarine territories, as the fact, pointed out by Cédric O, that La Réunion is today the most fibrous territory in France. In any case, we have the ambition to fibrate the entire French territory, a metropolis as ultramarine territories. That's what we're doing with this very high-speed plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u156	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u157	Together with Mrs Ali, I stress the importance of this amendment for the territory of Mayotte. It is true that, unfortunately, this territory is still lagging behind, whether in forecasts, in state interventions, in departmentalisation or in economic development. If we are told every time that we are late, we will remain so, Mayotte will never be a territory of excellence like other communities. Madam Special Rapporteur, Madam Deputy Minister, this is clearly a concern. For this remote territory, there is a question of equal opportunities in the training of our children, who must also be able to sit on these benches and become ministers, rapporteurs-general or special rapporteurs. It is also an issue of economic equality. You are sending us back without giving us any details, Madam Deputy Minister – and if you listened to us, perhaps we would move forward in this debate! We would like to know what the plan was originally planned, plus the €4 million. We know that a plan for the installation of fibre throughout the territory has been proposed to the departmental council for EUR 52 million, but our territory is the poorest, which means that if nothing is done in this debate – and that is what makes this amendment so important – we will still be lagging behind in five years, or even ten, while the other communities and people in the other regions of the territory will move forward at a steady pace. We therefore need more information to know what the entire funding plan is and to show us that it is truly possible to catch up with the other territories. We want to be treated on an equal footing with others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u158	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u159	Madam Member, honourable Member, I do not have all the figures here, but I pledge that the details will be communicated to you. As my colleague Agnès Pannier-Runacher has said very clearly, the plan is to fiber the whole of France, whether it is Hexagon or ultramarine territories. As part of the recovery plan, we have handed over nearly EUR 250 million on the table for very high speed, including part for Mayotte, as Mrs Pannier-Runacher also said, and we have therefore signed a new amendment to the contract. I am not aware of a particular problem for Mayotte in this respect, especially since we are still going to spend EUR 150 million on financing complex connections. I undertake to look closely at the situation in Mayotte, but in view of this funding reserve, I do not think it is necessary to put any more money on the table and it did not seem to me that once the delay in the département of this territory, which you have mentioned, has been taken into account, there are grounds for concern. Indeed, we approach the situation from a global perspective, with the ambition to fiber the entire French territory by the end of 2025, which applies to Mayotte as well as to La Réunion – which is certainly in advance in this matter –, Guadeloupe, Guyana and the other ultramarine territories, and, of course, to the hexagonal territories. I tell you again, in any case, that my office will provide you with the details of the territory of Mahorais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u160	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u161	Mr. Secretary of State, I have heard your commitment. We would therefore like to meet with your office to discuss this issue and to have additional information, as the amendment has been prepared with the department. As my colleague Kamardine said in Mayotte, where we are far from everything, more than anywhere else, digital technology is necessary for telemedicine as well as for the studies of our young people, and I would really like us to be involved in this work. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u162	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u163	In response to what has been said earlier about FISAC, I would like to point out that a very recent press article warned about the local trade, pointing out that the sittings that will take place from 1 December were burning, as a result of the need to protect these businesses, particularly affected by the health crisis. Amendment No 111 concerns service stations, which have, over time, enabled territorial networking and access to mobility throughout the departments. The modernisation of these specific and essential businesses requires a national aid fund, not deconcentrated, for two reasons. First, there is the gradual closure of local independent service stations, which defies certain territories, where vehicle owners are sometimes forced to travel several kilometres to fill up. Service stations must therefore be maintained as far as possible throughout the territory. Secondly, service stations have to be modernised because of the evolution of engines and the ecological transition, and in order to develop alternative energies, they must be accompanied by the State. While they are already experiencing economic difficulties and their margins are almost nullified, they cannot be asked to make the effort to adapt, in the context of the ecological transition, to the evolution of the motor vehicle industry without the state being at the meeting, even on an ad hoc basis. That is the purpose of this amendment, which I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote without too many states of soul.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u165	Aid is indeed necessary, but it must be targeted and deployed intelligently. The Government is aware of the situation and work involving the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate, the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion (ANCT) and the Office of the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development (CGDD) has been launched in consultation with representatives of the oil sector to identify key stations to be maintained. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment, which has already been rejected in committee. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u167	For the same reasons as the Special Rapporteur, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u168	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u169	Dear colleague rapporteur, I will be able to inform our colleague Vincent Descœur, the main signatory of this amendment, that he has no intelligent solution and that his voice from the territories must be regarded as outdated in relation to the intelligence of the central Parisian power. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, in your answer you refer to oil tankers, but it is not a question of reasoning massively from Paris. Get out of this spectrum and look at the economic actors on the ground! That is what matters to us. Your answer, completely disconnected, reveals who you are!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u170	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u171	By hearing you say everything and its opposite, we will end up losing ourselves! Earlier, asking the regions to take care of the economy, as it has been their responsibility since the law NOTRE, was an abandonment on the part of the Government, and here is that organizing a consultation to prepare aid in a targeted and intelligent way is a bad solution... A moment will come when you will have to choose!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u172	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 289.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u173	This amendment, which could be considered an appeal amendment, tends to alert the Government about the situation of INPI's FTEs, the National Institute of Industrial Property, to which we have entrusted since the PACTE law new tasks, including the creation of a one-stop shop for all the steps taken by French companies. This measure, which entered into force on 1 January 2021, must be implemented until 1 January 2023 to achieve its full effectiveness. This represents for INPI the absorption of more than 3 million acts per year, not to mention the creation of the general dematerialised register of companies or the new provisions relating to patents and trademarks provided for in the law PACTE. The purpose of this amendment is not to abound the budgetary resources of the Institute, which has the necessary budgetary reserves, but to accompany it in the recruitment of staff over the next three years and to ensure the success of the creation of this single window, particularly the after-sales service, if I may say so, in any case, of a telephone platform to answer all the questions that entrepreneurs might have to ask in connection with these steps.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u175	We advised you in committee to withdraw this amendment, which you did. We took advantage of this time to request additional information from the service concerned in order to be able to answer you. Indeed, the PACTE law has expanded the powers of INPI by entrusting it with new tasks, one of which is the creation of this one-stop shop, which is largely expected. For example, INPI has been authorised to carry out fifty additional recruitments over three years, broken down as follows: twenty-eight jobs in 2020, eight in 2021 and fourteen in 2022. It is true that it is not always easy to track these recruitments, since not all of them are included in finance bills. I think your amendment is satisfactory, but I will let the minister add a few elements. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I will personally issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u177	I confirm in every respect what the Special Rapporteur has just said. Fifty recruitments are authorized: twenty-eight in 2020, eight in 2021 and fourteen in 2022. The INPI employment framework has been adjusted to take account of these new missions. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u178	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u179	The mission of INPI is important, especially when trying to reindustrialize the country. As the INPI is located in my constituency, I had the opportunity to discuss with its Director General. It is not the job framework that seems to be a problem, but the fact that it is asked to draw on its reserves. If it's not awkward for this year, it can't last forever. We should therefore be assured that what can be understood in a cyclical way cannot become a habit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u180	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u181	I thank the Deputy Minister and the Special Rapporteur for their response. I withdraw this appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u182	Amendment No 2730 by Mr Dominique Potier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u183	I call Mrs Bessot Ballot, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 2722.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u184	We were lucky to have the President of the Republic come to visit us for the first time at the International Food, Restaurant and Food Fair in Lyon. The day before, at the chefs' dinner, he had announced the Marcoussis or the Clairefontaine of gastronomy. This relationship with sport is not trivial: it is known that when a team plays in league 1, whether it is football or rugby, many more children are attracted to sport. When excellences come to shine, it creates a real centrifugal force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u185	Centripetal, not centrifugal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u186	Indeed, it attracts and not repulsed. This time, I agree with you, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u187	In any case, lexically!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u188	So it makes learning work, social elevator, etc. The victory of candidate Davy Tissot and his team in Lyon during this edition of the Bocuse d'Or is no coincidence: unprecedented means have been mobilized so that our team France can become number one again. In the Scandinavian countries, the state comes to take more action on this part. This amendment is therefore in line with the announcements of the President of the Republic, as well as with that of what we all want to develop: a healthier, safe and sustainable diet through the tool of gastronomy. I therefore propose that the State spend EUR 1 million to support this structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u190	Knowing how attached you are to gastronomy and the fact that it shines in France and internationally, I am sorry to disappoint you by asking you to withdraw this amendment, not because of the amount it represents but rather because it is not very clear about the exact actions you want to finance. The summary of a "sustainable and competitive financing" is mentioned, and the action 07 that you would like to abound concerns mainly the support of French companies in their international strategy. The committee has not considered this amendment, but my colleague co-rapporteur and I ask you to withdraw it because of its lack of clarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u191	It's true that it's not clear...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u192	I will let the minister delegate explain to you what actions have already been taken on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u194	You are right, Madam Member, the Government is committed to the development of French gastronomy, and as you have pointed out, the President of the Republic wishes the creation of a centre of excellence and training for gastronomy. Work is under way to assess the means that such a centre should have. As you know, a budget of 5 million is already planned for the year of gastronomy for a period from December 2020 to December 2022, in order to accompany a number of provisions, including the pre-figuration of this centre of excellence. All these elements are therefore well covered by the budget. The question could, of course, arise for the 2023 finance bill, when the ins and outs of this centre of excellence and training are in place and it will be a matter of lasting this structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u195	I call Mr. Fabrice Brun, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u196	Personally, I will support this amendment by our colleague Barbara Bessot Ballot. I would like to thank and congratulate her for her outstanding work as co-chair of the Gastronomy Study Group at the National Assembly. I would also like to remind you that food has a number of functions that we need very much at the moment: to restore ourselves, to rejoice and to meet. This reflects the full cross-cutting nature of his proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u197	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Bessot Ballot?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u198	In view of what has just been announced, I withdraw it. Of course, you can count on me and I will do anything to defend this project. We must absolutely reassure this "team France" which can no longer be reduced to selling pins or t-shirts to finance its shares. In any case, that is not the case in the Scandinavian countries. I hope to be here in 2023 to be able to defend this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u199	[[Smile]] We hope you'll be here too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u200	Amendment No 2729 by Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u201	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2695.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u202	The smelters are likely to see 2000 jobs leaving – for technical reasons, we are told, because it would be finished with the cast iron. In truth, the same is true for aluminum smelters, whereas it is a product of the future, since, for example, the electric car will need aluminum. Among these foundries, I will of course mention the Fonderie du Poitou, but also the MBF foundry, in the Jura, which has 270 employees. Like the Fonderie du Poitou, the MBF foundry had Renault as its customer. There, it is said that the state can a lot in general, but that it can even more when it is Renault's first shareholder and that it gave 5 billion to the automotive industry during the economic crisis: there could be as a counterpart the maintenance of foundries in France. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the case of MBF, since a cooperative company must be launched. Now it appears that the promises made by the builders are not kept, that they do not play the game. Peugeot would reduce – I use the conditional because I want to hear you on the subject – by 70% its order compared to what was planned, and Renault does not provide any more answers. The MBF project is still supported by the region, but is it still supported by Renault's shareholder state or by the state that can weigh on Peugeot, on manufacturers, so that this foundry has a future?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u203	On the appropriations of the mission Economy, I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u204	We recognize the importance of industry in our economy. I like to remind you that if since the 1980s employment has been destroyed in the industry, since 2019 we are recreating industrial employment. This government has put industry at the heart of our economy, as demonstrated by existing mechanisms. For example, the Territories of Industry initiative benefits from more than €1.4 billion of public money and the recovery plan provides specific funds for aeronautics and automobiles. To this is added the future plan France 2030. Haute-Savoie is a very industrial department, and I welcome the Government's industrial achievements. Earlier, you quoted Harry Potter; For our industry, I prefer the concrete actions of the Government rather than a magic wand. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will personally issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u206	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice. As you know, appropriations have been put in place, first of all through the support provided by the Fund for Economic and Social Development (FDES), which has saved a number of industrial enterprises, then through the aid of the recovery plan, and finally through the specific fund set up for the conversion of employees of the foundries, which has 50 million euros. As far as the particular case of MBF is concerned, you know that I met with the company's employees on several occasions and that we spoke very directly about their project of a cooperative and participative society (SCOP), particularly at a two-hour meeting held last July. Today, we are always ready to accompany him when we have a complete project, and that is what we are trying to work on. There is therefore no change of foot on the part of the State. As we do in all these delicate situations, we also accompany the employees individually, the factory being closed today. We are accompanying the territory with the "Industrial Shock" scheme, which has enabled us to identify thirty projects, seven of which should benefit from the support of France's relaunch in order to strengthen employment. We will continue this work. It may not be as spectacular as Harry Potter, but it has the merit of working.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u207	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u208	By quoting Harry Potter, my boyfriend Ruffin was not referring to his magic wand but to Voldemort, that is to say, the one whose name is not to be pronounced. He asked you about the difficulty you Liberals have in saying certain names. We agree that industrial employment has been rolled. Son of a metallo – my father was a cauldron-welder – I saw how those who dreamed of ridding France of its factories have allowed a huge number of know-how to be extinguished. The situation of the steel industry in France is an example of this: the steel industry has been rolled out, to the point that today we are unable to produce the steel we need, especially for lack of welder-boilers. That is what we want to say to you in this amendment: considering that there is no longer a future for the foundries, by letting the market go and letting the relocation of these industries pass, we will realize in ten years that we have strengthened our dependence, our renunciation of our industrial sovereignty, and therefore our inability to establish long-term industrial strategies in the field mentioned by my friend Ruffin. That is why I support this symbolic amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u209	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u210	I therefore have no answer as to the commitment made to employees who are ready to take over MBF by car manufacturers who have made orders promises that would not be kept today. In the case of aluminium smelters, there is currently a laissez-faire by the Government and a continuation of relocations. On a more general level, I still have a small concern when I hear the current that you represent here in this assembly which, in essence, has accompanied the industrial relocations for thirty years, let them do...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u211	We weren't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u212	Maybe not you, but what did Mr. Macron advocate when he worked alongside Mr. Attali? What did he do when he was Minister of Economy? It has promoted the free movement of goods, the GATT agreements – the general ccord on tariffs and trade –, the WTO agreements – the global organization of trade –, the agreements with China, all the free trade agreements, and it is this liberal policy that you are pursuing today! It is this policy that has caused industry to flee for 30 years and is the major cause of the situation we are in today. And it was the arsonists who caused this huge fire that came today to play fire with their little spears!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u213	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u214	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u215	I put to the vote the credits of the "Economy" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u216	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 32 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u217	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u218	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u219	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 2701 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u220	This amendment supplements Amendment No 2704, which I tabled in detail earlier. It is a matter of translating into our law the advance mechanism mechanism for carbon compensation for which we have opened up EUR 150 million of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u222	Favourable, in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u223	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 2712.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u224	Despite La Poste's performance efforts and the tariff increases authorized by ARCEP, the continued decline in the volume of universal service now makes this public service mission seriously deficient. This structural trend has been aggravated by the effects of the health crisis. The economic weight that universal service now represents for La Poste means finding a mechanism of fair compensation. On 22 July 2021, on the occasion of the meeting of the high-level monitoring committee of the company contract between the State and La Poste, the Prime Minister announced the Government's support for the developments in the universal postal service advocated by Jean Launay in his report on the future of universal postal service, in order to better meet the needs of postal users and to maintain a high level of service quality. In order to accompany the transfer of the universal postal service and to ensure its sustainability, the Prime Minister announced the payment to La Poste of an annual budget allocation, which will be modulated according to the results of quality of service between 500 and 520 million euros, and the inclusion of a first allocation in the draft finance law for 2022 for the previous year. That is what we are doing with this amendment. I would point out that under European law, the national regulatory authority is responsible for verifying the calculation of the net cost of universal postal service. To this end, we propose an amendment to Article L. 2-2 of the Post and Electronic Communications Code to entrust ARCEP with the competence to assess the net cost of universal postal service, as well as an abolition of the compensation fund, which is not an adequate solution, to provide instead for the payment of compensation to the universal postal service provider under this mission from State funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u226	We all recognize La Poste's work in the territories and the need to provide a suitable service, even in areas that would not be viable for private companies. The arrangements for the compensation of this universal service, which had previously prevailed, are obsolete; It is therefore quite naturally that we welcome this budgetary funding which will enable this postal service to be maintained. This PLF provides 520 million for this purpose and it is therefore logical that we support this amendment by the Government. It incorporates in law the principle of payment of compensation to the universal postal service provider and takes note of the role of ARCEP, which will have to verify that there is no overcompensation. As the committee did not consider this amendment, I am issuing a favourable opinion on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u227	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u228	We understand that you want to compensate for La Poste's deficits, Madam Deputy Minister, but we would like to know more about the planned reorganizations, even if our discussion is about budget appropriations. In rural areas, we see that postal services are far from effective. What guarantees does the State provide for this public service to be provided as close as possible to the citizens, as close as possible to the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u229	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u230	This technical amendment has not been the subject of an expert opinion in committee: it is your way of respecting Parliament. But beyond form, there is the bottom. The Liberals you are view public service as a cost. For our part, we believe that the presence of public service everywhere and for all is an opportunity. Universal public service is not a thing to do when you have nothing to do, it is a mission to ensure fully and at all times. Equal access to public services must be guaranteed, for the real economy, to meet the needs of our citizens, especially as we know what this essential public service, La Poste, is for small people. However, it must be noted that for many years there has been a real move of the postal territory: reduction of opening hours, closure of post offices. And the rural area is the first to pay the bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u232	...of this bad liberal policy implemented for too long. My question is: What do you mean by "universal service"? For me, it corresponds to an imperative need: to have access to this essential public service, which is La Poste, whatever its social condition, whatever the place where one was born, whatever the place where one lives, whether it be the fragile areas of metropolitan areas such as rural or medium-sized towns, and not just the beautiful neighbourhoods. Following on from my colleague, I therefore ask you, Madam Deputy Minister, what is behind this technical amendment, which is purely financial. What did you tell the president of La Poste about the territorial mesh? On the eve of the Congress of Mayors, will you tell them that you will continue this great territorial move? I'm interested in knowing...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u233	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u234	... especially as the presidential election is approaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u235	Mrs Valérie Rabault, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u236	Madam Deputy Minister, of course we are all very attached to the public postal service, especially those of us who represent rural departments. I still have a few small questions about your amendment, even though the 500 million that it is putting at stake seem very little beside the 34 billion amendment! It is indeed the universal postal service. You indicate that the valuation method used to calculate the net cost of this universal postal service will be determined by Order in Council. And behind that, there's everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u237	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u238	It is certain that the cost to public finances will not be the same at all depending on whether you continue the closures of post offices or whether you impose as a state wide time zones, replacements in the event of absences, daily passages of factors in order to ensure a real public service. It is known that some municipalities face great difficulties: sometimes the factor passes only twice a week. Post office closures are numerous and implemented without even warning to mayors. I would therefore like this method of calculation to be debated here instead of being the subject of a decree in the Council of State. Or give us some explanations now, so we can have a real discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u239	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u240	The Government is presenting this amendment, in fairly technical terms, directly in the Chamber, by bypassing the committee. So we have to grab his object in a few minutes, but basically, if I understand correctly, it's about saving La Poste. It still seems difficult for me to oppose this! Now, what does that mean? The dogma was that it was necessary to open the postal service to competition at all costs. It was an injunction from the European Union! Finally, we realize that no one wants to go in this direction and that it is preferable for La Poste to remain in a monopoly situation. As a result, money is put to save La Poste – money from the French, but for what? It is a tool at the service of the country, and we must ask ourselves what needs it must meet. However, this purely budgetary amendment does not tell us anything about the project behind this compensation. Is it a question of having a local office or of embarking on new financial activities? La Poste is almost again a public service financed by state money, by our money, and not open to competition: what are we going to do with it? Will the post offices continue to close one after the other? In those who remain open, what services will be offered?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u241	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u242	I find it interesting that some call "technical" an amendment by which the Government puts 500 million to 520 million euros on the table to preserve universal postal service. This amendment is not technical, it is political!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u243	Why didn't you introduce him before?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u244	Jean Launay's report, the conclusions of which are reproduced, has been available since 18 May 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u245	So you had all the time to stand by and present the amendment in committeeQ!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u246	There are 17000 contact points...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u247	They're closing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u248	...and they are maintained. We do not reduce the postal presence: we perpetuate the distribution of mail throughout the country. That is the meaning of universal public service that we seek to protect. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I expected more than polemics on this major issue on which the Government is committed. Forgive me, but for someone who entered politics three years ago, it is a bit disturbing to have been accused for two hours of being responsible for a policy that has been in place for thirty years! The aim is to maintain at the same level as is provided for in the law the number of existing offices at the current opening hours. The State will compensate and entrust ARCEP, because it is an independent authority, the task of calculating – which is of a technical nature – the cost of universal postal service in relation to this territorial mesh.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u249	Mr Sebastien Jumel, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor for a point of order. On what basis, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u250	I am basing myself on the article that states that the House must be enlightened before we deliberate – Rule 58, I believe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u251	That's not how things are going, Mr. Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u252	It is not section 58, Madam Chair, but section 48. Minister, I wonder: Did you intend to table this amendment since May 18, 2021? If so, I wonder why you did not defend him in committee so that we could assess him. You would then have had the opportunity to explain that this $500 million was likely to strengthen the postal presence in the territory. The fact that you chose to table it only for the public sitting might lead us to believe that it was purely technical in nature. On the other hand, I would like to hear you further develop your design of postal contact points. What will be the share of local authorities in their funding? What guarantee do you bring in terms of slots? According to what criteria do you base yourself to guarantee universal postal service everywhere? How do you take land use planning into account?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u253	Mr President, you are speaking on the merits. This is not a point of order. Rule 48 is devoted to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u254	I am speaking so that the House can be informed before this amendment is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u255	[[Smile]] Of course, but that is not the subject of Rule 48 of our Rules of Procedure, and I think you know that very well. Mrs Huguette Tiegna, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u256	In our territories – in which we have not been elected for thirty years, but we can cash everything here – we all know La Poste's problem. Whether we belong to the opposition or to the majority, we fight not only to preserve the quality of postal services and the employment of agents, but also to find ways to sustain La Poste's presence in our departments. In the last elections, the flow of electoral folds has been difficult and the opposition has risen to the niche.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u257	Privatize!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u258	Today, I honestly believe that we should all welcome this EUR 500 million allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u259	But we salute her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u260	If you do not have the report of former Member of Parliament Jean Launay, to whom I have succeeded to represent the second constituency of the Lot, I would be happy to transmit it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u261	I call Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u262	In my special report with Valéria Faure-Muntian, we discussed the issue of compensation of 520 million. So you could have asked us questions in committee about this envelope, ladies and gentlemen. Beyond the postal service, we must mention all the French services houses that host postal points.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u263	It's not the same as a post office!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u264	They are a real success and are expected to be deployed throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u265	Here's something interesting...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u266	It is not necessary to remain attached to the post offices as they were known thirty years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u267	That's right, we're rascals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u268	Let us instead use these France services houses, whose opening hours are much wider.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u269	This is the reign of novlangue!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u270	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u271	It is not for us to argue, Madam Deputy Minister, but simply to ask you questions and report to you certain facts. You say you came into politics three years ago. For my part, I was elected last year and I see how mayors fight to keep a close postal presence. As Members, we must tell you what is happening on the ground. You provide compensation for the universal postal service. But what guarantees do you give on behalf of the State to provide this community service? The Special Rapporteur referred to France services houses. Let's talk about it! There is a great inequity between cities and rural municipalities, which must take responsibility for setting up France services houses by investing, even though they have no assurance as to the sustainability of the financing. In the absence of guarantees, mayors find themselves in the greatest uncertainty: they do not know whether tomorrow these local services can continue to function.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u272	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u273	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] There is one point in this debate that surprises me: the presence of La Poste in rural areas. The Committee on Economic Affairs, where we both sit, Mr Jumel, regularly hears the President of La Poste, who has been presenting the various plans for transformation and diversification for many years. You are well aware that it is the commune which makes a place and staff available to the communal post office; The Post Office, on the other hand, finances the service. This arrangement is quite interesting for the municipalities. The opening hours of the office are very clear for the inhabitants; the mailman passes as soon as he has something to deliver – now parcels more often than mail. In short, this transformation is profound but well known. In this case, the Government proposes to accompany him. The Post Office, in essence, only adapts to the customs and customs of our fellow citizens; It is its role – in the rest, it is the primary role of a public service to accompany the evolution of citizens' behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u274	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u275	We have talked a lot about the premises, but let us not forget the essential: the postal workers, the human link that the factors have with the inhabitants. However, La Poste strives to maintain this presence, which is fundamental for isolated populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u276	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-08-O1052.u277	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Further to the review of the appropriations of the missions Economy and Future Investments, the Trust Account International Monetary Agreements and the Financial Assistance Account Loans and advances to private individuals or organizations; of the mission Financial commitments of the State, of the trust accounts Participation of France in the deleveraging of Greece and of the financial contributions of the State and of the financial assistance account Advances to various government departments or bodies managing public services; Review of the appropriations of the Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs Mission and the Agricultural and Rural Development Trust Account. The meeting is adjourned.
