ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Nadia Essayan and others to improve the accessibility of persons with disabilities to retail stores and shopping centres (No. 3684, 3778).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u2	Mrs Nadia Essayan, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u3	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to examine the bill tabled by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, a text which I have the honour to be the rapporteur, which has been entitled, since its passage in committee, "Proposal for a law to improve the accessibility of persons with disabilities to retail stores and shopping centres". To explain my approach, I would first like to return to the origins of the bill. Initially, the "silent hour" is a field experiment that began in my constituency in Vierzon. At the request of Clémence's mother, a non-verbal autistic teenager, the local supermarket agreed to introduce, once a week, a silent hour during which the lights are sifted, the music and sound announcements interrupted and the noise of the electronic devices diminished, in order to allow the girl to do her shopping serenely with her companion on Tuesday afternoon. The autistic spectrum disorders – TSA – are still unfortunately too unknown to the general public, so it must be remembered that visiting a supermarket can turn into a real test for people with it. Indeed, many of them suffer from sensory hypersensitivity that makes the bright lights and the sound environment unique to commercial areas very difficult to live: they are, for them, real aggressions. In France, about 700000 people are affected by autistic spectrum disorder. For Clemence, the girl I was talking about, the silent hour allowed for a real improvement, which I myself had the chance to observe. After the success of this local experiment, also introduced in other supermarkets, some brands have chosen to generalize the device. On the basis of this success, I have therefore decided to introduce a bill to generalize the silent hour. I have been working together with the relevant trade actors and associations, and I thank them for their involvement, their spirit of dialogue and their willingness to act. As part of my work as rapporteur on the bill, I was able to measure how difficult it was for many people with disabilities to access shops and shopping centres – regardless of their disability. The Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities enshrined a principle: the accessibility of everything for all. It is very clearly stated in article L. 111-7 of the Construction and Housing Code. But more than 15 years later, despite the many efforts made by private actors and the public authorities, which must be welcomed, the observation is without appeal: this principle is still not fully reflected in the facts. While the planned accessibility agendas, which were validated by the legislator in 2014, have made many progress, they have not answered all the problems and, still today, half of the LES, the establishments receiving from the public, do not meet the accessibility standards, as defined by the Act of 11 February 2005. I therefore took the decision to broaden the scope of my bill, and I am pleased that, during its consideration last week, all the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs followed me. Our discussions have been exciting and passionate, and the unanimous adoption of the text shows that the Commissioners have been convinced of the relevance of my proposal in moving towards a more inclusive and just society: I thank them very much. The version of the bill that we adopted in committee, which was the result of an amendment that I tabled, co-signed by my group as a whole, considerably broadens the scope of the original text, which was intended only for silent time, giving it a new ambition. The text we have adopted replaces the silent hour with a negotiation between the voluntary world and the economic actors concerned to make progress together on issues of accessibility to shops of more than 1000 square meters and shopping centres. The consultation, carried out in conjunction with the Government, is expected to be completed within 18 months of the enactment of the law, after which the Government will report to the national representation on the measures adopted and the timetable for their implementation. In this capacity, I would like to thank Mrs Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, Mr Alain Griset, Deputy Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, and their teams, with whom we have discussed at length the modalities and objectives of this consultation. I know that the Secretary of State will make every effort to ensure that it is conducted in time, and in a dual spirit of dialogue and efficiency at the service of the most fragile.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u4	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u5	The silent hour will be – and I will see to it – one of the elements of this consultation, because the absence of this mechanism is an important lack of accessibility, and it will be, as it is already in places, a major step forward. Progress for autistic people, of course, but also for many other audiences, for whom the bright lights and sound environment of supermarkets are a source of ill-being, such as people suffering from hyperacousia or tinnitus, the elderly, but also the store staff and other audiences under various stress. We have already begun to draw up, in conjunction with the various stakeholders, a draft guide of good practice on silent time: I am very pleased with it and sincerely welcome the involvement of everyone. This guide, by providing advice and proposals based on the sharing of experiences already achieved, will allow the mechanism to be put in place very quickly. And, to further improve its functioning, the guide will continue to be powered. However, while including it, the consultation that we propose in the framework of the bill goes further than the silent hour: it must make it possible to improve the daily lives of the 12 million French people with disabilities. Today, there is a need to take stock of the accessibility of shops, and to propose further steps to address well-identified problems, such as the problem of signage or priority access to cash registers, which is not currently effective for some people with disabilities, particularly for the vast majority of people with autistic spectrum disorder. More broadly, I am convinced that society as a whole will benefit from the measures we are taking in order to build an inclusive society. That is the whole meaning of my political commitment: to allow a better living together in our diversity, with our strengths and weaknesses. As I said in committee, where we discussed it, I am convinced that the opening of negotiations between the various parties is the right path to take. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this is the trademark of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats. The same spirit of dialogue led me to organise, after the adoption of the text in committee, a round table with the trade actors and the ministerial offices concerned. I am pleased to note that trade actors today generally adhere to the principle of consultation, and have shown their readiness to move forward on these issues. A final word on the organisation of this consultation: to be full and complete, parliamentarians must of course be involved in it. I have tabled an amendment to that effect, which we will discuss later. So this is another step on the long road to inclusion that we can take today by passing the bill. Just as we want them to be educated with other children and young people, to experience life autonomously among others, in suitable housing, and to work in the same places as all, it is essential to allow people with disabilities to shop with maximum autonomy. As politicians, we have a duty to ensure the rights of the most fragile of us, so that their place among us is respected. Politically, at a time when we often hear that decisions come from above – even if they are not – this consultation is interesting, as it is based on a joint work of all the parties concerned by a problem. It will generate dialogue, collective intelligence, inventiveness, boldness, solidarity, patience and openness of mind. It will also be a substantive work, which will be given sufficient time to succeed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] Our citizens often fear that the legislative work will be endless and its impact will not be visible: this will not be the case, since the measures chosen will soon be able to take shape after the eighteen months of consultation, and will give rise to a presentation to Parliament. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. I hope that, as in committee, we will adopt it unanimously: this would be a strong sign sent to all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u6	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u7	What a pleasure to see a band as well represented today! I know you're all, on these benches, convinced of the value of moving forward together. It is a great pleasure, Madam rapporteur, to be with you today. I think that, collectively, we have done a very good job. The bill we are debating this morning deals with a major issue in the Government's disability policy: universal accessibility. As you know, the participation of people with disabilities is at the very heart of the meaning given to all the actions we have been carrying out for more than three years now. The Government was pursuing a non-discriminatory and inclusive policy. Since it was drafted, the bill aimed at improving the accessibility of people with autism spectrum disorder by setting up a "silent hour" has come a long way, demonstrating real co-construction work, in conjunction with all the actors involved. In this respect, I would like to thank you, Madam rapporteur, for the method you have adopted, a method that is really yours. Your commitment to people with disabilities is valuable. After a first draft proposed in 2019, the text we are looking at this morning has been the subject of extensive readjustment work, in order to best meet the expectations of people with disabilities, of all people with disabilities. Their full participation requires a global vision, which mobilizes the entire social body. I have committed myself so that we can break down the boundaries and prejudices that weigh on disability, and I am convinced that this vision – demanding but ambitious – that allows us not to fall into discourses that stigmatize, is the right one. In this respect, I welcome the direction taken by the text when it was drawn up and examined in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Indeed, the improvement of the daily lives of persons with disabilities necessarily requires the introduction of universal accessibility. Accessibility must, of course, be first of all that of the building. Programmed accessibility agendas already make the programming of accessibility work mandatory for all establishments receiving from the public. Since the Act of 11 February 2005, accessibility has improved. But we need to continue the work that is being done on all dimensions of universal accessibility, because things are not going fast enough, especially for all places in the daily lives of people with disabilities: the heart of the city and the shops. So we will also support the merchants to help them make their buildings accessible. In this sense, the organisation of a national consultation with all stakeholders is a great opportunity to raise awareness and unite around accessibility, drawing on the expertise of these actors. Ensuring the accessibility of our society is, first and foremost, guaranteeing to everyone the exercise of their freedom to act, to go and come and to participate fully in collective life. The bill is at the heart of people's daily lives. I often say that when disability advances, it is the whole society that moves forward – I know that you are all convinced here. Even if the current context weighs on all economic actors – as you know – our policies must continue to move forward. The national consultation proposed in the new version of the bill meets a double imperative of demand and pragmatism. Be assured that with my colleague Alain Griset, I will ensure that everyone can find their place there. The submission of a report to Parliament within 18 months of the enactment of the Act, under the auspices of the State Secretariat for Persons with Disabilities and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, will provide an opportunity to prepare a progress report, identify points of advancement or blocking, and test good practices. These exist and are numerous; Let us value them and encourage policies emanating from the territories. We must give flexibility to actors on the ground for the implementation of accessibility arrangements, while at the same time being demanding on results. It is essential that the consultation lead the various stakeholders to commit themselves, each within its own possibilities, of course, but above all in its area of expertise. The success of the silent hours experiment in some Hyper U stores – which I sincerely welcome for their commitment – is one example. This has worked because it has been designed by actors in the field, without the need for legislative or regulatory framing. Other measures meet the same criteria: it will be necessary to act on the waiting of the caisses and to make even more use of the priority caisses. It is also necessary simply to enforce the law, for example with regard to assistive dogs accompanying persons. But we must also act on other levers, such as the training of reception workers, so that they can, for example, accompany a blind person in the shelves to choose a product. As you can see, we have a very large number of tracks to explore together. Private initiative in favour of universal accessibility must be encouraged – what the legislator is doing today – but actors must not be forced into a framework that they cannot respect, especially at this time. You have instilled the desire for better accessibility, Madam rapporteur, and I thank you for that. Let us now accompany the business community and associations of people with disabilities so that everyone can bring their expertise and best practices, in order to accelerate their generalization. You can count on the Government's continued commitment to universal accessibility, not only for the 12 million French people with disabilities and their 10 million caregivers, but also for all the elderly and those with special needs, for the benefit of all our fellow citizens. This action brings together communities, associative and economic actors and, above all, citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups.– Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] In view of these various elements, the Government will obviously be in favour of the adoption of this bill and thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons. Let me say again that when disability progresses, society as a whole is making progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u8	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u9	In the general debate, Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u10	Parliamentary work is constantly nourished by local initiatives, experiments undertaken on a territory-wide basis. Listening to what works, to what has been tried, is one of the foundations of the MP's mandate. It is from this perspective that our colleague Nadia Essayan has embarked on the drafting of a bill aimed at introducing a quiet weekly hour in large areas in order to allow people suffering from autism spectrum disorders to do their shopping serenely, in a soothing environment. Indeed, it is shown that the passage through a supermarket represents a certain difficulty for autistic people whose sensory hypersensitivity is affected by the luminous and sound intensity that prevails in these places. In view of this, several experiments have been launched under the impetus of associations and with the help of local directorates of large and medium-sized areas. They aim to set a time range for these people, so that they can shop in a quiet atmosphere – the light intensity is reduced, the background music and the various microphonic announcements are interrupted. The initial aim of the bill was to generalize the scheme on the basis that the adaptation of the daily environment to disability, to make it accessible to all, was obvious. However, this evidence is still far from being a reality today. Indeed, the difficulties of accessibility to shops and shopping centres for persons with disabilities, whatever they may be, are still too many in our country. While the Law of 11 February 2005 on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities enshrined the principle of accessibility for all and for all, the reality is unfortunately very different. While much progress has been made, in practice there are still many shortcomings in all areas of daily life, particularly in the mobility of people with reduced mobility. In view of this situation, it was appropriate for the rapporteur to extend the consideration to the accessibility of all persons with disabilities to large areas and shops. To this end, it submitted an amendment to rewrite the single article of the bill, co-signed by the entire Dem Group. Broadly adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, this amendment is intended to replace the silent hour by compulsory consultation between the various associations and the economic actors concerned on issues related to the accessibility of shops and shopping centres. This national consultation, in conjunction with the Government, will have to be completed within 18 months of the enactment of the law and will eventually lead to the submission of a report to Parliament. Parliamentary work is constantly nourished by local initiatives, experiments undertaken on a territory-wide basis. Listening to what works, to what has been tried, is one of the foundations of the MP's mandate. It is from this perspective that our colleague Nadia Essayan has embarked on the drafting of a bill aimed at introducing a quiet weekly hour in large areas in order to allow people suffering from autism spectrum disorders to do their shopping serenely, in a soothing environment. Indeed, it is shown that the passage through a supermarket represents a certain difficulty for autistic people whose sensory hypersensitivity is affected by the luminous and sound intensity that prevails in these places. The new version of the text will bring together all stakeholders to analyse, more than 15 years after the 2005 law, the actual state of accessibility of persons with disabilities to retail and shopping centres, to draw conclusions and, above all, to propose improvements. Let us not be mistaken: it is a matter of giving concrete attention to the daily lives of nearly 12 million French people with disabilities. To achieve this objective, we are convinced that consultation is the best tool, since it does not impose anything arbitrary but allows everyone to listen, dialogue and propose, with the requirement to achieve efficient solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats Group welcomes the new impetus this text will give to the interdepartmental policy on disability. The common aspiration for a more inclusive society cannot save on initiatives like this. In order to achieve concrete and satisfactory solutions, we believe that it is necessary to encourage stakeholders to meet with a clear roadmap. This is the objective that we set ourselves through the new version of this text. In conclusion, the Dem Group would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her investment on the central issue of accessibility for all. It goes without saying that we will vote for this text with enthusiasm, since it brings one more stone to the edifice of inclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u11	Mrs Annaig Le Meur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u12	Sixteen years ago, the National Assembly debated the place of persons with disabilities in our society. A major step forward for all, the Act of 11 February 2005 laid down the principles of equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities. It aimed at the autonomy of each by taking into account the four families of disability: motor, sensory, cognitive and psychic. This law gave LES ten years to make themselves accessible. Seven years later, only 30% of these facilities were in compliance. The creation of scheduled accessibility agendas was proposed at the end of 2012 to relaunch a dynamic that allowed a real transformation, thanks to the involvement of all. But let's be realistic: there's still work to be done. To date, it is estimated that there are between 1.8 and 2 million ERPs in France. As of 1 January 2020, half of them had undertaken or successfully completed an accessibility approach. The desire to improve accessibility was reaffirmed at the last interdepartmental committee on disability on 16 November 2020, and many developments are planned for the year 2021: national deployment of accessibility ambassadors, launch of a first version of the Acceslibre collaborative digital application, publication by the end of the year of the report on the accessibility of ERPs, public transport, housing buildings and roads for people with disabilities. With regard to autistic spectrum disorders, the Government's commitment is strong, as demonstrated by the national strategy desired by the President of the Republic and his wife, and carried by Secretary of State Sophie Cluzel. Today, TSAs affect about 1% of the population in France, or 700000 people, of whom 100,000 are young people under 20 years of age. The national strategy for autism aims to diagnose and understand these disorders. The research reveals new data to enable us to identify, identify and understand. Better knowledge will enable us to improve the care and support of the people concerned and thus adapt their environment to the best possible extent to promote inclusion. The bill, which originally proposed the introduction of a quiet quiet hour, made it clear that, if much had already been done, we could still do better: better for Clemence, for whom entering a large surface was impossible. I can only rejoice in the chain of solidarity that Clémence's case may have aroused. An involvement of families, associations and companies made possible this weekly noise-free hour, lit with dim light. The benefit goes beyond Clémence's only person: his family but also the users of the large area and the staff find it interesting. The gain obtained goes beyond the framework of the scheme, integrating it into a societal and inclusive approach. I thank the actors in the territory who have been able to take up this situation in order to change the daily life at their level. The fact that this local initiative has become a bill is proof that every citizen is an actor and responsible for the society in which he or she lives. I welcome your attention, Madam rapporteur, because I know how much you care about this bill. I am thinking of families who, every time they have to shop, fear rising tension and look for ways to avoid the crisis, to protect their child. [[The chairman of the committee applauds]] Today we are on the eve of the 16th anniversary of the accessibility law and on the eve of the 16th anniversary of Erwann. This one would like to thank you because, thanks to you, he may one day find an updated plan of the rays of the large surfaces – because, when the rays change place, it is not nice. He will be able to cut the queue at the caisses, while currently his disability card does not allow him to do so. He can sit in a soothing place because sometimes shopping is too long. Erwann is autistic. He, it is the crowd, multiple demands and random movements that disturb and sometimes lose him – the forms of autism are varied. While the adaptation of our living spaces to motor and sensory disorders has required a great deal of work and a real involvement of all, I know that it is sometimes more complex to define the needs of people with cognitive and psychological disorders, who are part of the invisible handicap and have a complexity and diversity of forms. So it seemed difficult for me to limit ourselves to the silent hour alone, because the troubles and the solutions are multiple. Identifying possible solutions without making them mandatory values those who will be able to take advantage of them, and seems to me to meet the expectations of as many as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You have been pleased, Madam rapporteur, to extend your bill to all forms of disability, in accordance with the 2005 Act, and to allow for consultation with businesses. You have thus enriched your text to provide for the creation of a toolbox in which everyone can share their best practices. We will be vigilant to ensure that the silent hour finds its place there. Improving the daily lives of people with disabilities is a gain for all. In conclusion, I would like to wish a happy birthday to the accessibility law – and to my Erwann!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u13	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u15	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u16	Let us speak frankly: when I saw, several weeks ago, the title of your bill, which I had not yet read, on the "green paper", our agenda, I said to myself, "Ah! The Dem group lets itself go to gadgets! " However, I quickly got over it after reading your bill and its explanatory memorandum, and then after hearing you explain your approach to the committee debates. I then realized that this was, on the contrary, an extremely serious subject, in keeping with the 2005 Act. I must confess: I was already sitting on these benches, and the young Member that I was had passed this law which, you will understand, means a lot to me. The second thought I made was: "Why didn't you think about it earlier? " As required by the 2005 law, we have worked to create an inclusive society, particularly in all public services, and I was fortunate, when I was vice-president of the Alsace region, responsible for transport, to apply this law in this area. Let us say that this action has often raised questions from my colleagues or mayors, especially when we decided to invest large sums of money to equip stations with equipment to facilitate access for people with reduced mobility. My experience in this area allows me to confirm what the Secretary of State has said about this: once the facilities are installed, everyone benefits from it and it is quite normal not to be content with a yellow band along the dock, but also to have markers for people with reduced mobility or other equipment such as lifts. [[The rapporteur smiles]] If I were to sum up your bill in one word, I would say, "Let's try! Trying is what you did in your riding, and that is the first merit of this bill. As I have already said in this rostrum, the proposals for legislation are too often based on purely theoretical thinking, sometimes soaked in ideology, and are intended only to be buzzing, which makes journalists say that Parliament shows the muscles by proposing to ban something. Your approach is quite different: an experiment has taken place in your constituency with the large distribution, and it is on the basis of your feedback that you have drafted this bill. Trying is also the point of the proposal that you are making to negotiate with stakeholders for 18 months, which is the right method. The same is true at this time, when it is clear that measures to restrict the freedoms which the Government is obliged to take are accepted and effective only if they are discussed in advance. Finally, there is a philosophical dimension in your bill: what we are trying to do is also to build another society. We live in a consumer society, which is confirmed to us every weekend, when we see people scrambling in supermarket parking lots with their caddies at the slightest rumor of a possible reconstitution. In this society of gluttonous enzymes, overflowing, silent time and wider devices that you are considering also invite us to reflect on the meaning of our life and of our society, and perhaps to reflect on other ways of being than that of filling her belly and caddy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will understand, the Action Together group supports you in your approach: with you, we will try to change the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u17	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u18	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u19	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u20	One hour a week without noise or intense light, which constitute real assaults for people suffering from autism-related disorder: the measure originally proposed seemed to be of common sense and did not seem to us to present an insurmountable complexity for the retail trades – the experience you mentioned, Madam rapporteur, proves this. This measure would have allowed the 700000 people with autistic spectrum disorder to access the businesses concerned without fear, independently for some, with their families for others, and with less stress for all. They could all have lived this little moment more pleasantly, more serenely, without anything being taken away from the freedoms of others. It is true that, in the face of the diversity of handicaps affecting 12 million of our citizens, consultation is desirable in order to avoid unwanted effects, which are potentially harmful to some, but also to give this text "a new ambition", to use the words you have used, Madam rapporteur. [[Mr Dominique Potier and Mr Sébastien Jumel smile]] We could have imagined that the proposed negotiation would take place ahead of time, so that we are now in a position to vote for "hard" measures. In your report, you indicate that your bill came out of a one-year consultation, which we do not doubt. Since it seems that this has not been enough, we can only welcome your decision to rewrite your text, a decision that has probably not been easy to make. We regret, however, that the wording adopted by the committee does not provide for regulations for the proper application of the measures resulting from the conciliation procedure. That is why the IDU and Independent Group will propose an amendment to ensure that the implementing measures resulting from the negotiations are taken by regulation. We hope, Madam rapporteur, that he will have a benevolent look. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Parliament would be honoured to vote on this bill and thus show humanity. It is by taking care of the most fragile that our society strengthens its cohesion and fulfils its part of the social contract. We must build an inclusive society, and we thank you, Madam rapporteur, for your work in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u21	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u22	This morning we are considering a bill by our colleague Nadia Essayan on the access of persons with disabilities to business complexes. Your text opens the way for consultation between economic actors, associations representing people with disabilities and, of course, the minister responsible for people with disabilities and, most certainly, the minister of the economy. As I said in committee, your intention is commendable, Madam rapporteur, and deserves to be welcomed. You have understood that it is necessary to broaden the consultation and the very purpose of this text, so that it does not concern only one category of disability in France. The debate in committee also led to the silent hour being applied to all the issues that could affect people with disabilities. On the other hand, the text no longer provides for an obligation for private partners, but rather for consultation, which was a real challenge. In that it allowed a first awareness of the autistic cause, your initiative could only be welcomed by the various associations. However, our feedback revealed that the accompanying persons and families of people with ASD felt that the proposed measure might be limited by the difficulty they would encounter in integrating it into the organization of their family life. Personally, I agree with you that there is a need for a broad reflection beyond the 2005 law on the issue of access for persons with disabilities to all public spaces. While living with a disability has long meant living in isolation, today society is looking at people with disabilities in a new way, much less discriminating. Above all, people with disabilities are now able to make their voices heard. However, as many associations have shown, the cause of disability is still not considered as it should be, as a problem of accessibility of public spaces persists. Disability is a social issue that we legislators need to take into account even better: it is essential, in a republic that claims both equality and fraternity, that people with disabilities can be welcomed everywhere in the same way as those who do not. However, many associations continue to express their dissatisfaction with the persistent lack of consideration for persons with disabilities, particularly with regard to the displacement difficulties they face. This is my point: although there has been progress in raising awareness of the fact that it is more right to welcome everyone, not all conditions are always in place to allow people with disabilities to live and move in comfortable conditions. There is no worse handicap than another, and that is why the enlargement of your proposal is a step forward. Since the 2005 Act, policies for the integration of persons with disabilities have increased, but not all targets have been met. If 700000 French people are affected by autism, 12 million of our compatriots are disabled, representing one in six people, and 67% complain of a lack of accessibility. It was necessary to reflect on the shopping centres, as we are doing again today, because it is essential that everyone be able to carry out their essential purchases in complete serenity. However, beyond the question of purchasing, many points remain to be settled so that people with disabilities can move around the public space: I think of stairs, ramps, sidewalks too high, doors too narrow, or streets dotted with obstacles. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] There are still many subjects of evolution to be expected, but if tomorrow people with disabilities can safely make their food purchases, it will already be a first victory. That is why the Republicans Group welcomes your initiative and will support your text in line with what the majority of 2005 voted for, namely to move towards an ever more inclusive and supportive society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u23	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u24	Living with disorders of the spectrum of autism has for too long meant living isolated, misunderstood or even mocked. If the French and French today take a less discriminating view of people with autistic disorders, the road remains long before they are fully integrated into our society. It remains long because despite the implementation of successive plans and several advances in identification, diagnosis and support, there is still a lack of resources for schooling, research and training of health and education professionals. It remains long because our society still struggles to pass the course that will allow it to move from a logic of protection, which isolates, to a logic of inclusion, which welcomes, in the words of the President of the Republic. Yet, and I am well placed to know it as a regional elected official, it is sometimes enough to make little progress in improving the daily lives of people with disabilities and making it possible for everyone to have access to infrastructure. The initial ambition of the bill was to allow some concrete progress so that people with autism spectrum disorders could do their shopping more easily, as you have said with great emotion, Madam rapporteur. Such a mechanism seemed easy to implement: it was to impose on retail businesses a sales area of more than 1000 square metres, a reduction in light intensity and an interruption of sound announcements and music for at least one hour a week. This initiative, which would have represented neither extra cost nor undue hardship for traders, would have reduced the sensory overload of people living with a form of autism, or even made the weekly races of anyone indisposed by noise and excessive light in large areas more enjoyable. The sounds, colors, and smells that are particularly intense in these places are likely to cause anxiety in all people who have an unusual way of feeling the world. In addition, the proposed framework was based on a civil society initiative. If it was not perfect, it had the merit of responding to the most urgent needs, determined by the support associations of the persons carrying TSA and their families. Here I would like to reiterate my thanks to these associations, the real leaders of inclusiveness, as well as to the first brands that have been receptive and have voluntarily implemented this scheme, which has been widely praised by associations, by families or more widely by consumers. This is the demonstration that this small step is within our reach. I am pleased to acknowledge that the original proposal left aside a few issues such as access to the boxes or the organization of the shelves, but I remain convinced that it was a useful and necessary first step and that it did not prevent progress on other issues. That is why, as you know, the rapporteur, I regret the rewriting carried out by the Committee on Economic Affairs. What remains of the original ambition of this bill in a text that now confines itself to calling for the implementation of a negotiation between relevant actors and associations representing persons with disabilities, in consultation with the ministers? What message does this send to people with ASD and their families? I pass on the fact that this invitation to consultation does not, in our view, fall within the scope of the law. As a former Minister of Trade, I know that negotiations take place every day in departments without the need for legislation. For these reasons, the Libertés et Territoires Group considers that this silent hour can already be established, which will not prevent adjustments from being made subsequently through negotiations between the players in the large distribution sector and the associations. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] We share your goal of making our society more inclusive. To achieve it, I believe in the politics of small steps. It would be to vote in favour of the introduction of a silent hour in the main areas and to continue, together with the Secretary of State, the dialogue on the other aspects which have been developed, which are particularly important. Nevertheless, the Liberties and Territories Group will support your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u25	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u26	I had the honour of being rapporteur of the committee of inquiry on the inclusion of disabled pupils in school and university, which has been, as other colleagues will testify, a body of reflection on the concerns of all actors, particularly families. Of this important work, which has led the Government to take positive steps that have led to progress, I must say in all honesty, and I remember two main things. The first lesson: the testimonies of the families facing this human tragedy allowed us to grasp the course of the combatant they had to follow and how long the wait was long for them, which is all the more unjustifiable and unbearable as all the fundamental texts lay down a principle of equality and non-discrimination between citizens, regardless of their situations. The second lesson I have learned from this long work in the committee of inquiry is that there is a space for a second act of the February 2005 law, which was unanimous. It would be opportune if, in a plural way, far from the political postures – disability cannot admit them – we gave a second breath to the inclusive society we all dream of. I have no doubt about the generosity of the rapporteur and my colleagues in the Chamber. I regret, however, that, following Sylvia Pinel, we stayed in the middle of the ford. Of course, the principle of reality is sometimes more binding on members of the majority than on those of the opposition, but is there a need for an 18-month consultation to decide on a provision that should already apply? I believe that department stores should be put to use without delay and implement this common sense measure of offering children with autistic disorders the opportunity to shop with their families without being attacked and destabilized. I'm telling you, the rewriting in committee has drained the text a little bit of its substance and made it lose energy. We shall, however, vote on it because it has not lost its original meaning. The work we have done has shown that in order to move forward, in addition to political will and changing attitudes, we need human resources – which is why we have looked at the status of the connecting trades, including accompanying students with disabilities, the AESH – and financial resources. Take the accessibility of institutions receiving from the public: according to the interdepartmental delegation to accessibility, 350,000 LES would now meet the standards, the vast majority of which are new buildings. This shows the importance of aid to the private sector and communities. Accessibility remains a question of money at the same time as a question of will. Transportation remains limited: only 250 stations are accessible; 793 have yet to be completed, although the law has established an obligation to do so for 2024 and 2025. Together with my colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I regretted that in 2018, the law on housing, development and digital technology, known as the ELAN law, had a negative impact on the urgent need to make all social housing accessible to people with disabilities, by reserving a non-discriminatory place for them. Finally, I would like to welcome the rapporteur's energy and to highlight the stage that this bill marks, at least in her intentions. We will vote it while drawing your attention to the importance of having coercive means and mechanisms in place if we really want to go through new stages of inclusion. That's the wish I'm making with you this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u27	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u28	[[Mr. Sylvain Wasermanapplaudit]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] First of all, I would like to send a friendly greeting to the Dem Group on Thursday, when it tabled similar bills in its parliamentary niche which, in many respects, can bring us together. I will salute Nadia Essayan's force of conviction. When one listens to you, Madam rapporteur, when one listens to the Secretary of State or Annaig Le Meur, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, one is impressed because one cannot doubt your commitment to all. This bill, based on a very practical experience in your constituency, the rapporteur, made of social and territorial innovation, is part of the personalist tradition, which I share in large part with the family of the Dem group, according to which politics is formed in experience. Of course, politics cannot be summed up in this, but it is also that. We make decisions based on our own experiences, without making them life stories, which, sometimes in a somewhat indecent and irritating manner, engulf parliamentary debates. In this case, the rapporteur, you have taken the right distance from the subject in order to do an in-depth work in the continuity of the process initiated more than fifteen years ago by President Chirac. It was intended to improve devices in companies and public space, by setting obligations, but it had left a blind spot: the right for people with autism spectrum disorders to consume in a way adapted to their situation, i.e. the improvement of the daily life of 700000 of our fellow citizens. Thank you, rapporteur, for your work. However, if I want to be honest, I cannot say a certain disappointment – mine as well as that of the Socialist and related group. We would otherwise give in the honeymoon, which would not serve our common cause. You proposed a small step that nobody considered insignificant. It was even capable of initiating a process, and we were preparing, as every time we were faced with a good idea, to look for improvements: how long to remember? What obligation to determine? what size limit should be set for the stores concerned? What, then, was not our surprise when we found that this mechanism had been traded for a long discussion, called in the text "concerning", probably after you had negotiated. After Sylvia Pinel, Sébastien Jumel and a little bit of all the speakers finally, I wonder: is it necessary to legislate in order to start a consultation in this country? I am well aware of the set of constraints and compromises that you have had to submit to, and given the purpose of this text, there will be no controversy on our part. No suspense: we will support him. I still want this brief intervention to be an opportunity for us to reflect: frankly, we need 18 months in our country to make an hour of silence in our shops. Those who accuse us of not reforming quickly enough, of not being able to adapt to the urgency imposed by the pace of globalisation, tell us suddenly that we must take time, even though large-scale distribution is not a difficult sector. That it is necessary to go beyond the hour of weekly silence, everyone agrees, but why not maintain your original proposal by adding a discussion process to go further? It would have given body, nerve, credit to your approach. We find it unfortunate that you have not done so especially since our social democracy allows us to concert, as Sylvia Pinel recalled, without going through the law. [[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] In the minutes that I have left, I would like to stress that your proposal for a law, beyond the consideration of persons with disabilities, opens up a reflection on the rebalancing of the spheres of existence. In view of the crisis of the covid-19, it is certainly necessary to open the shops on Sundays to ensure the survival of many sectors, everyone agrees. But, building on the work of Marie Balmary and others who help us reflect on the world today, I would like to question the relevance of opening stores every day of the week. Sunday was invented so that, in our civilization, there is a time for something other than producing and consuming.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u30	[[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups.– Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] And this other thing is perhaps even the condition, in the long term, that we still be able to produce and consume because we are not only consumers and producers but also free and fraternal beings. The question of Sunday opens the field of a civilizational renewal which, at the time of the anthropocene, has become absolutely indispensable. We are not just practical beings, we are not just managers in this assembly. The bill encourages us to do so: we need to think about the meaning of our lives to simply ensure our survival.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u31	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u32	Madam rapporteur, let us begin by welcoming your intention and your commitment, which is beyond doubt, which has been said and I would like to add my voice in the footsteps of previous speakers on this point. People with autistic spectrum disorder are subject to inconvenience, which can be very harmful if they are subjected to visual or aural aggression. This is the case with the luminosity too high or the noise too intense. The initial version of your bill provided for the introduction of a quiet time in commercial and retail stores of more than 1000 square metres: one hour per week during which the brightness would be attenuated and the sound ads suspended. With good feelings, however, the bill reflected, from our point of view, a rather particular way of addressing the issue of disability. As we must recall, disability is not a characteristic of the persons concerned, but the result of a situation between individuals and their environment. Thus, the United Nations specifies that disability "results from the interaction between persons with [sustainable physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities] and the behavioural and environmental barriers that hinder their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others". Republican universalism grants equal rights to all people as human beings. In the original bill, however, there was no question of changing the functioning of society as a whole to allow people with disabilities to feel good at all times, but of organizing a kind of "integration bubble", limited in time and space, in which disability would be restricted. This would, of course, be subject to collective bargaining leading to the establishment of this famous silent hour. People with autistic spectrum disorder would therefore have been invited to shop in good conditions, but only for one hour a week, at a time freely chosen by supermarkets. This was already little, but it was before the full redrafting of the bill in committee since, from now on, your text only provides for a negotiation on the subject, open to the economic actors concerned, to associations representing persons with disabilities and in consultation with the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons and the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. Without doubting your intentions, we can legitimately ask ourselves what intervention or possible lobby of the big areas would explain that we have gone from the organisation of an hour of calm time – with all the limits that this implies – to the establishment of a negotiation on the possibility of its setting up. The lack of ambition of the new wording is, from our point of view, terrifying. We do not want to participate and you do not need us. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u33	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u34	Once again, economic actors are placed around the table in the same position as those whose health is affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u35	We don't divide, we unite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u36	And why not reduce these attacks for all? Positive consequences would result and society as a whole, for once, would adapt to people with disabilities, rather than waiting for people with autistic spectrum disorder to adapt, depending on the times chosen by the local supermarket! Less light, less noise, less electricity consumption, reduced bills for large areas and, above all, ecologically beneficial effects. So, finally, maybe we could go shopping in peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u37	The general discussion is closed. Mrs Nadia Essayan, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u38	I would like to take up some of your comments. I would like to thank Mr Antoine Herth very much for the way in which he defended the bill; He talked about it better than I did and it touched me a lot! I heard from another speaker that the decision to propose a new drafting of the text had not been easy to take. But it's really bad to know me! I never do anything of which I am absolutely unconvinced; They're not taking me anywhere I don't want to go. It was because I really considered the importance and interest of this openness that I wanted to do so. And precisely because you all stressed it, I think it was the right decision. I note the support of Mrs Sylvia Pinel, who regrets, however, that this silent hour is not introduced within the framework of the bill – Mr Sébastien Jumel and Mr Dominique Potier also spoke about it. I have considered this question but, in reality, we have already made good progress on the silent hour, which is being set up all over the world, voluntarily, precisely because it does not present any constraints. I therefore trust the players in the sector, with whom we have discussed a great deal. To the attention of Mr Adrien Quatennens, who refers to the lobbies of the trade players, I would point out that the latter were initially in favour of the application of a silent hour, but reluctant to start negotiations. We have managed to reverse the trend and bring them around the table for consultation, which is a real step forward. The new wording would have led to the loss of energy, I also heard. No, I've already talked about it! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I thank you all for your contributions, which give even more weight to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u39	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u40	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These exchanges show that we are on the right track and that we have made progress. We must work with the field, which did not wait for the legislator on this subject, as you said, Madam rapporteur. We must accompany the actors concerned in a global way: we have not talked, for example, about the training of reception agents of the large distribution, a considerable lever on which we will progress, with the profession, because it is also about the well-being of the employees. We have the opportunity to go even further and you can count on the determination of Alain Griset and myself to promote the silent hour device, desired by the traders, I want to say again. This will be done in a very pragmatic way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u42	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u43	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u44	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u45	This is a drafting clarification, aimed at replacing the term "negotiation" with "concertion", with the word "negotiation" having a precise meaning for the traders who wished to alert us on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u47	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u48	I should like to inform the House that, on the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur's amendment No 5 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u49	The rapporteur's amendment No 4 is also drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u50	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u51	The purpose of this amendment is to involve members of Parliament and senators in the consultation provided for in the bill. It seems to me essential that national representation be involved in the consultation it has requested. A decree will specify the modalities for the participation of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u52	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u53	It is intended to clarify at what point the 18-month period after which consultation is to be concluded. It will begin with the enactment of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u54	The rapporteur's amendment No 8 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u55	Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u56	Before I defend this amendment, I would like to say to you, Madam rapporteur, that I am very disappointed. I am surprised by what you have retained from my speech in the general discussion. I do not understand: I have supported you, throughout my remarks, and we share the same fight. The proof is this amendment: in order to ensure that the measures resulting from the negotiations provided for in the Single Article are properly implemented, the amendment of the IUD-I Group aims to include in the law that a regulatory text will ensure that all actors implement these measures. Otherwise, the initial ambition may remain a pious wish. And it is because we want this progress, this new stage, that we are defending an amendment that fully corresponds to the tone that was mine earlier. I repeat, I am very disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u57	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u58	I apologise, honourable Member, but I am very tickling about the point you raised, which probably explains my very strong reaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u59	I may have expressed myself badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u60	Thank you for your support and for the rest of your intervention that touched me. My intention was not to hurt you, but simply to say that I am not one of those who is being imposed on anything and it tickled me a little bit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u61	I didn't say "impose"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u62	Your amendment seeks to ensure that the procedures for implementing the conciliation measures are the subject of a decision. I understand the idea, but it is too early, at this stage, to refer the content of the measures to a decree. Our goal is for a commitment to be endorsed during the negotiation. It will be written and forwarded to Parliament. The commitment is therefore already enshrined in the law; It will always be time, at a later stage, to adopt a decree or to decide on legislative developments if consultation leads to such conclusions. I therefore request the withdrawal of your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u63	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u64	It is the same as that of the committee, since we believe that the commitment to which the rapporteur has just referred will be fulfilled. You can count on me, Mrs. Descamps, to change the lives and circumstances of people with disabilities. I know how to count on you, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u65	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u66	This was an appeal amendment for me; I appreciate your answers and I agree to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u68	Thank you, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u69	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u70	I tabled this amendment in the rostrum during the general discussion. Beyond the article that we have just adopted instituting a concertation to cover all fields of disability and to allow the accessibility of the persons concerned to shops and large areas, it is a matter of introducing into the text what was originally the subject of your bill: a silent hour, as already practiced by some retail stores. These experiments prove that it is possible to make this choice without additional cost or constraint. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] I repeat your initial wording, considering that today we can introduce both the consultation that you propose and the silent hour in the big areas, which will guarantee a well-being both for people with autism spectrum disorders, but also more broadly for consumers and employees in the large distribution sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u71	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u72	Thank you for your sincere interest in the silent hour device in the big areas. On this point, I am pleased to tell you that the battle has already been won: media enthusiasm has been a first success, which has made it possible to raise awareness. Above all, we are already in the process of drawing up, in connection with the large distribution and associations, a good practice guide which will be disseminated to all and also, I hope, accessible on the Acceslibre platform, to allow the swarming of this wonderful initiative throughout the national territory and to clarify its operational application modalities. If I changed the original wording, it was because, with the hindsight that the auditions made me take, it seemed to me too circumscribed and incomplete. The new wording of the single article reflects my desire to increase our ambitions for inclusion and leave no one on the sidelines. I agree more than ever with the principle of accessibility for all. The silent hour will feature prominently in the concertation that we will lead: have no doubt about it. That is why I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u73	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u74	Unfavorable, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u75	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u76	In line with my intervention during the general discussion, I request that, within 18 months of the enactment of the Act, the Government submit to Parliament a report on the desirability of extending measures to facilitate access by persons with disabilities to retail and retail outlets, in order to enable them to make their purchases without stress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u78	Thank you, dear colleague, for your involvement in this subject; We have had very interesting exchanges in committee, and we share, I believe, the same vision for the inclusion of people with disabilities. However, I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment: your request is too vague, since the report you are seeking would cover the extension of measures that have not yet been taken. You fear that the silent hour device will be too timid and allow only "inclusion bubbles" to be introduced. That is precisely why we have replaced it with a great deal of consultation with a much broader aim. We want to bring about new measures that will improve the accessibility of shops and shopping centres for all people with disabilities – I am confident that in this we are meeting your objectives. The consultation will make it possible to improve very concretely the daily lives of the 12 million French people with disabilities, and more broadly the whole of society. At the end of 18 months, a report will give a very concrete account of the measures adopted and their timetable for implementation. That's good news for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u79	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u80	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 85 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u81	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u82	You can imagine my emotion, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to thank you for this unanimous vote. I had the joy of being supported by my group and working with departments in a frank and demanding dialogue – this was the case on both sides. I can attest to this: this legislative work is exciting; he has opened up real room for manoeuvre to improve the "living together". My thanks go also to Christelle Berger, the mother of the young Clémence, as well as to Isabelle Ouzet, who launched the device at Vierzon: in a way, they were the ones who set me on the road, one by his courage, the other by his daring. I would like to express my thanks to the voluntary and trade actors we have interviewed, and to those with whom we have worked more closely – they will recognize each other – for their good advice and availability. Finally, my thanks go to the administrator Clémentine Castello, who was of remarkable availability and competence, assisted by the intern Claire Doumenc, as well as to my collaborator Florent Bouquez, who accompanied me for many months in the drafting of this bill. [[Many Members of the Dem and LaREM groups stand up and applaud]] I hope that the text will be quickly reviewed by the Senate, so that the agreement can begin as soon as possible. Thank you again, colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u83	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u84	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u85	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal for a law by Mr Nicolas Turquois and several of his colleagues to simplify the access of forest experts to cadastral data (No 3682, 3777).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u86	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I call the single article and the related amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u87	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1, 3 and 6. Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u88	It aims to integrate professional organizations into bodies with access to cadastral data. Trade unions or associations whose purpose is to represent and defend the interests of private forest ownership may take beneficial action to inform forest owners about the possibilities of economic development of their stands. In fact, they will be able to act in a disinterested manner. For these reasons, and in order to improve the economic recovery of timber and forests, it would be useful to open up the possibility of receiving cadastral data to the professional organisations referred to in Article L. 321-7 of the Forest Code. In the debate on the bill to speed up and simplify public action, known as the ASAP Act, a similar amendment had not been successful, on the grounds that access to cadastral data should be limited only to professionals recognized by the State. However, the professional organisations concerned fulfil this condition: they are the most representative professional organisations of the forest of individuals, grouped into regional colleges for the election of councillors of the regional centres of the forest property, and they are included in the list of organizations established by the prefect of the region, in accordance with the forestry code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u89	Identical Amendments Nos 3 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin and 6 by Mrs Nathalie Serre are being defended. Mr Nicolas Turquois, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u90	First of all, I would like to say that I am proud – due to chance – to speak immediately after the vote on Nadia Essayan's bill concerning the accessibility of businesses to people with various disabilities. This is an important step forward for our citizens. Even before the completion of the legislative process of this text, the members of the field that we are must take their pilgrim stick to defend this subject from the big areas. I come to the bill to simplify the access of forest experts to cadastral data: it is a matter of incorporating into the law a practice that has been tested in the framework of the future law for agriculture, food and forest, known as LAAF, of 2014. The latter had tried to address the problem of forest fragmentation, but had encountered difficulties in accessing cadastral data, which were subject to tax secrecy. A balance had been found and validated by CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms. In order to consolidate this progress – which will not prevent further extensions – it seems to me necessary to maintain the current balance and limit us to the perimeter validated by the CNIL; We will thus avoid this sensitive data being open to all winds. Therefore, my opinion is unfavourable on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u91	The Minister for Agriculture and Food has the floor to give the Government's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u92	I agree with the rapporteur's unfavorable opinion. I would like to take this opportunity to warmly thank Nicolas Turquois and all of you who took up this issue during the consideration of the ASAP bill; Anne-Laure Cattelot had also raised the issue in her report to the Government on forest and timber. We know that forest management is facing a cadastral issue. As you know, these provisions have been separated from the ASAP Act by the Constitutional Council. I would like to thank the rapporteur once again because these provisions are very important in order to extend the access of our approved forest or professional experts to the cadastral base. I also consider that the balance that has been found is the right one and that we must not go beyond it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For the same reasons as those expressed by the rapporteur, I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u93	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u94	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u95	In my turn, I thank my colleague Nicolas Turquois for his pragmatic and deep-rooted work, which is clearly the mark of this niche. I note a filiation with the LAAF law since it is a question of putting into the hard part an experiment that had been allowed by this law. We thus catch up with a legistic accident. It is necessary to measure the coerced nature of this process, which in fact opens up a discussion, which could take place in the framework of the presidential election, on a forestry re-memberment that will allow optimal exploitation, both from an environmental, phytosanitary point of view in the light of the current crises, and economic and social ones, to strengthen our sectors. This small step opens up a great discussion, a little as we have just seen during the examination of the previous text with the introduction of a silent hour in the shops.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u96	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u97	Trade unions and associations whose purpose is to represent and defend the interests of private forest ownership can take beneficial action to inform forest owners about the possibilities of economic development of their stands. In fact, they will be able to act in a disinterested manner, unlike other actors. For these reasons, it is useful to open up the possibility of receiving cadastral data to the professional organisations referred to in Article L. 321-7 of the Forest Code in order to improve the economic valuation of timber and forests. In the debate on the bill to speed up the simplification of public action, an identical amendment had not resulted on the grounds that the aim was to limit access to cadastral data to state-recognized owners only. But this is also the case with the professional organisations concerned. These are the most representative professional organisations of the private forest, grouped into regional colleges for the election of councillors of the regional centres of forest ownership. They are on the list of organizations established by the prefect of the region. Amendment No 3 is therefore intended to allow forest trade unions access to cadastral data.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u98	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u99	Mr rapporteur, as I said in committee, this bill worries us because we consider it dangerous to simplify access to the cadastre without a drastic change in forestry practices which could contribute to industrialization of the forest for three reasons. First, because the small forest land does not have approved management documents whose requirements would be enforceable to limit the intensity of the cuts. Secondly, because it has a high environmental value. Finally, because you make it easier for forest owners to get off the ground by forest cooperatives, while many of their practices are already aggressive. We also forget the very important issue of the conflict of interest in which these co-operatives find themselves, since they sell advice, work, plantation and market wood. My amendment is therefore intended to introduce a safeguard by making the communication of information conditional on a commitment not to cut more than 0.5 hectares, except in the event of a proven health impasse. I would point out that this was one of the proposals of the citizens' climate convention, that the framework for razed cuts was included in the report by our colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot and that these cuts have a very negative effect on biodiversity, soils and water filtration. Shafting should be an exception in forest management and not a common practice. France is very late on this issue as it has not yet legislated, unlike Switzerland, Germany and Austria.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u100	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u101	I know your commitment to preserving biodiversity in the forest and its ecological impact. When I think of forest, I think of the four goals that are often given to it. First, wood production. While France has the largest forest in Europe, it imports wood for industrial use. The only sector for which it is surplus is that of unprocessed logs. It imports wood because three quarters of the forests are private and the average forest area is 1.2 hectares, which prevents the mobilization of wood. Secondly, there is a lot of talk about the recreational forest. For some, it is a matter of walking, for others to hunt, pick up mushrooms or do sports. It is difficult to carry out all these activities in a frozen forest, when the trees have fallen into chablis, when it is no longer maintained for lack of identification or maintenance of the plots by owners who have even forgotten the existence of them. There are many unmastered properties in the forest. Thirdly, carbon storage. In order to do this, suitable levies must be made to be integrated into building construction, for example. I believe that the minister had already raised this issue when he was the minister responsible for housing. For a forest to store carbon, it must at least be able to exploit it in respectful conditions. Being able to manage and access a number of plots a little better allows for better storage of carbon. Fourthly, the preservation of the biodiversity you are insisting on. Having many forest owners is also a guarantee of diversity. However, in the opposite direction, when the forest runs dry, biodiversity closes. While threatened by climate change, the scheme for forest renewal as provided for in the investment of the recovery plan will not be able to apply to a totally atomised forest. Accessing forest information to manage larger areas in common than they are today makes sense. You evoke a threshold of 0.5 hectares, that is a square of 70 meters by about 70 meters, which is very small. Of course, measures are needed to limit single-species stands. The benefit of the recovery plan shall be granted only when a minimum rate of diversification is respected for plots of 10 hectares or more. Diversification is therefore taken into account, but certainly not at the level you want. You propose to act on areas that are too small in relation to the need to intervene in the forest. The thresholds should allow for a balance between your concerns and operational reality. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u102	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u103	We have often dealt with this issue with Mrs Panot, whose commitment is known. It would be interesting to have a debate in the Chamber on forest management policy, which raises many questions. The rapporteur has just recalled the four essential features of the forest; I agree with him. I believe that the forest is a whole, that it is multifunctional and that its management must be holistic. A forest is a place that protects itself and cultivates itself. Let us all bear in mind that if the forest has continued to grow for a century and a half, only 50% of the annual increase in the forest area is used in industrial production and in wood production, which means that wood is imported massively from abroad, especially for wood construction. With the new environmental regulation 2020 – the RE2020 – you have a major opportunity. When I was Minister of Housing, I had insisted that the analysis of the wood life cycle be included so that it could be more present in construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u104	We have to postpone it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u105	Today, everyone is plebiscite of wood construction, especially Mr. Thibault Bazin, but in reality wood is imported, which is aberrant. We must therefore have a proactive policy of protecting and cultivating our forests. I'm very committed to finding the right balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u106	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u107	Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, on behalf of the Republic on the move, I would like to commend your work and your commitment in the ASAP law and today to legally confirm and anchor in the marble of the law the opening of access to cadastral data for forest experts, these professionals who have been at the forefront and the outposts to enable sustainable management of our forests. They held the pen of the road map for sustainable management of our forests. Philippe Gourmain and today Sylvestre Courdert, the president of the forest experts, are driving forces to bring together in our country the holistic approach that the minister has just emphasized, namely a sustainably managed forest, a forest that is a reservoir of biodiversity, a forest that is exploited and transformed and whose uses of wood are environmentally friendly. [[Mr Thibault Bazin exclaimed]] I too hope that the RE 2020 will come out and not become the "RE when the chickens have teeth". Currently, the construction sector comprises only 10% of French wood, which is damaging. As the rapporteur has pointed out, we need to transform logs, which otherwise are exported, into wood that will last a long time, like the beams of Notre Dame, which have been able to store carbon for hundreds of years. That is the meaning of our action. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Knowing the seriousness of the profession and forest experts, giving access to cadastral data in full transparency is the way we must follow. Thank you, Minister, for giving us the opportunity soon to have a great debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u108	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u109	Mr rapporteur, you are talking about the multifunctionality of the forest with its four functions. This is what the many foresters want to respect in particular. The problem is that the "malforestation" in which part of the profession participates in our country is the only economic function that is respected while all the others, which are very important, are not. If we talk about the public forest, all that the NFB officials ask, the National Forestry Board, is precisely that we respect multifunctionality. Then you said that in order to store carbon, which is the stakes of this century, we need to take it. Yeah, but not just how. You know that much of the carbon in the forest is stored in forest soils that are very fragile, not very thick and that release all the carbon when you make a shave with machines of fifty tons, as can be seen in the Morvan. We have to put an end to these processes. Minister, you often say that the forest must be cultivated. I've told you a thousand times that I have no problem with the fact that we pick up in the forest but I want the shaved cup to be an exception, not a common practice. It must also be recognized that free development can be a management recognized as reasonable, simply because we do not have to make leisure forests everywhere. As for the recreational forest, what the owners are asking for to open their forests is that they are not responsible for falling trees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u110	No, that's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u111	Yes, and I discussed it with the professionals. It would also be good to allow part of our forest surface to evolve freely. In any case, it is essential to stop the industrialization of the forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u112	Thank you for concluding...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u113	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let me add one more thing, Mr. President. You are telling me, rapporteur, that we must import wood. Well! work on the first and second transformations but let's not allow the overtake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u114	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u115	It is important to debate the forest, at a time when we rediscover its role in the territories everywhere. I was concerned with sustainable development, and I would simply like to add that in communities, in public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation, architects often discourage elected officials from installing pellet or pellet boilers by explaining that it was too complicated, that ash should be collected, etc. I think it is very important to work with this profession to remove this real obstacle to the will of our territories to develop this sector. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The forest is now linked to the view of water and rivers in large cities. We can see that we have to teach the children of the cities, who developed from the rivers, to look at the forest again. I say to the big cities: there is no competition between urban and rural areas. Instead of pretending to grow forests in cities to make it look like green spaces, let's get our kids to look at real trees in real forests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u116	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u117	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u118	The forests continue to grow, Mrs. Panot. In my department, we're going to grow a forest of more than a million trees. This is proof that forestry can be done even in peri-urban departments. In Île-de-France, everything you say about the limitation of shaves is already relevant. Our region has a very healthy management of the forest. I do not dispute that the debate remains topical, but rather to generalize in a somewhat brutal way by law, let us let the various organisations that manage our forests in the departments do so very well. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to thank you, Mr rapporteur and Mr Minister, for the debate that will take place on this subject, which is indeed fundamental to the future of our forests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u119	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u120	As you have refused to make access to cadastral data conditional on the prohibition of razed cuts greater than 0.5 hectares, except in the event of a proven health impasse, I propose that you associate their communication with the prohibition of converting a deciduous stand into a monospecific plantation. The country is not limited to Île-de-France, colleague Rilhac. Let us not repeat what has been done in agriculture by refusing to introduce rules. In regions such as Morvan, 50% of the diversified forests, which are more resilient to climate change, have been transformed into monocultures. We know the consequences of monoculture and we know that the industrialization of the forest goes through triptych shaved cuts, plantations, monoculture. Minister, I have often said this during your review of your recovery plan: a planted forest does not have the same resilience as a diversified forest. If this forest is monocultured, this is the disaster, whether it is climate change, fire or disease risks. In addition to this issue of resilience, our forests store carbon when they are diversified. Since we now know that we need to be long-term and to extend the life cycle of forests, let us not allow cooperatives to turn diversified forests into extremely harmful monocultures, both in human terms, for those who make the cuts often in disastrous conditions, for ecosystems, for carbon storage and for me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u122	Mrs Panot, you are going back to some of the issues that have already been raised in connection with the previous amendment. I did not want to defend a proposal for a forest law, because that would have led us to address a whole bunch of issues. I preferred to limit it modestly to setting up a tool based on experimentation, to the benefit of professionals duly identified by the public authorities: forest experts, forest cooperatives, which are producer groups, and forest managers. I find that the parliamentary niche is well suited to those texts that never reach the agenda because they are not considered to be sufficiently interesting or voluminous. It was for me to make sure that this text would prosper from a legislative point of view and that this tool would be operational, but if we want to deal with the subject completely, I believe, like the minister, that we will not be able to save a real debate on the forest, which will allow us to address all the functions of the forest, and all the challenges of transformation, far beyond the limited scope of the proposal. That is why I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u124	I'll also be unfavorable. The recovery plan, the forestry component of which is very successful, provided an opportunity to meet stakeholders in the sector and to define with them the conditions for diversification. I can therefore reassure you, honourable Member, that the forest world is well aware of the need for diversification. But we must also take into account the cultural realities that sometimes oppose what you advocate. You are aware, for example, that the pine forests of the Biscay are a legacy of the past and that this monoculture makes their management complicated. In other territories, hardwoods were replaced after the war with softwoods, and these are just a few examples of the situations we are facing. But now that the forest world is fully aware of the need to diversify crops, the subject is no longer there. You can always find the exception that contradicts the rule, but shaved cuts in a hardwood forest to transform it into a monoculture of resins, objectively it doesn't exist anymore. This has been seen in the past, but today there is no forestry expert who defends this solution. We must therefore strike a fair balance between the realities of our territories – for my part, I believe in the intelligence of the territories – and the desire to preserve forest crops.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u125	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u126	I understand, Mr rapporteur, that the ambition of your bill is modest and that it does not concern the forest in general, but what I fear, I repeat, is that it does not favour a practice that should not be encouraged. That is why I offered you these guarantees, which unfortunately are not accepted. I do not understand the arguments put forward to reject this amendment. You are talking to me, Minister, about the existing monocultures: I am talking to you about the future. You who tell me that we no longer turn hardwood forests into softwood forests, so go to the Morvan or the Millevaches plateau: you will see that this is still happening unfortunately, and that is one of the things we want to move forward on. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I do not see the argument that you can oppose our desire that hardwood forests cannot be replaced by monocultures of softwood or Douglas. Common sense requires a virtuous practice in the law rather than merely allowing the invisible hand of the market, whose effects on agriculture have been seen. All you have to do is take the floor if you have something to say, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u127	We have been sufficiently enlightened!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u128	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u129	The next item is the discussion at second reading, under the simplified procedure under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill amended by the Senate to respond to the request of patients by creating reception points for immediate care (No. 3063, 3779).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u130	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I call Article 1 and the related amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u131	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2 and 10, to delete Article 1. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister responsible for autonomy, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the best is the enemy of good. We share the objective of reducing the number of emergencies. In fact, CMSI – medical centres for immediate care – already exist in certain territories, in Meurthe-et-Moselle for example, and the care they offer meets the expectations. I believe it is necessary to trust the actors, especially the local actors, in a period and in a health context where we see that decisions taken since Paris can sometimes be problematic. These local actors should be given the freedom to organize themselves, rather than wanting to regulate everything by law, at the risk of further increasing rigidity and complexity and discouraging initiatives, which are still expected, which can really reduce the number of emergencies. All right, rapporteur, for better signage – for that there is no need for a law – but not for a framework that is too rigid. I therefore propose, by this amendment, which I would have preferred to have discussed after all the others, to delete Article 1, which, if not amended, could create confusion and burdensomeness, or even hinder the development of medical centres for immediate care which already exist and which are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u133	Amendment No 10 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart is being defended. Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u134	This is indeed a second reading in the House of this bill, which was adopted unanimously at first reading. I would like to pay tribute to the Commissioners who worked on this text in committee, in particular Mr Bazin, a work that has been fruitful since several amendments were adopted, including two from first reading in the Senate and one supported by the rapporteur-general of our committee. Like you, Mr Bazin, I wish to be able to discuss the following amendments and, as I think we agree on 90% of the text, I invite you to withdraw this amendment. The aim of the bill is to reduce the congestion of emergencies and to ensure that generalist city medicine takes its part in the regulation of care. You plead for flexibility: we must indeed trust local actors, allow them the freedom to organize and not regulate everything by law, but this bill does not create anything. It tends only to identify and label existing arrangements in our territory. That is why I invite you to withdraw your deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u135	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u136	I do not have much to add to what the rapporteur, whose opinion I share, has just said, of course, since this is a second reading and the debates have been fed into at first reading. This bill gives local actors the freedom to organize themselves to meet the unscheduled care needs of their territory. These points of care must nevertheless be integrated into the existing offer and must be labeled as such. I am therefore against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u137	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u138	I would like to support the rapporteur. Mr Bazin, it is not because the best is the enemy of good that it is by doing nothing that we will move forward! This initiative could be larger, but at least it has the advantage of existing. You tell us that access points to care are already being organised in the territories, particularly within the framework of the CPTS, the territorial professional health communities. Well! So let local actors organize themselves. You often complain about the lack of national will; But when a local will exists, it must be framed so that it can bear fruit. Frankly, I don't understand your position. Remember the years 2007 to 2012: you should not touch anything! See where we are in terms of access to care, a fortiori in this pandemic period. Leave this possibility to local actors, who are professionals, and stop burdening emergencies! What have we done against the covid-19? It was thanks to CPTS that patients were treated outside emergency services and embolism was avoided in many territories. Delete is not to do anything. You know this replica of the film Le Guépard: "Everything has to change..."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u139	Good reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u140	[[Applause and smiles on the benches of the Dem group]] So you know this exceptional quote; I leave Thibault Bazin to remember and meditate on it, perhaps to the point of withdrawing his amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u141	Excellent, Mr. Vigier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u142	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u143	We share the same objective: to reduce the number of emergencies. Will the adoption of this bill result in the creation on the ground of mechanisms to achieve this? No, since it's just a label. The signpost that you care about, for example, thanks to which everyone in France could identify the medical centres for immediate care by their orange crosses, goes in the right direction but does not require to go through the law; It is in the regulatory field. It is not impossible to set up these medical centres without legislation. Mr Vigier said that some CPTS had already organized for that purpose. When professionals work together, they have shown that they are able to set up these centres. However, they are concerned about some of the elements contained in the sub-paragraphs that we are going to consider, as these provisions would be tantamount to placing the immediate care centres under the control of a guardianship whose perimeter does not correspond to that of their work. Clearly, your text is based on a good intention that I do not object to, but, envisaged in detail, its provisions could prove counterproductive. At the very least, could he suggest that we are going to create immediate care centres when the law is not necessary to do so. As far as signaling is concerned, it must certainly be improved, but there is no need for legislation either.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u144	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u145	I insist: this bill does not create anything. As you say and as indicated in committee, these centres already exist everywhere in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u146	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u147	Let us, however, place ourselves from the point of view of our fellow citizens: for lack of labelling, they fail to identify them. You will propose by amendment to change their name. There are many different structures, the names of which vary without any signs identifying them. In case of headache, the green cross is preferred to buy paracetamol; If the vital prognosis is engaged, one turns naturally to the red cross, that is, the emergency service – it is the gradation of the care. On the other hand, a sprain, a light wound, a life-saving pain inevitably leads to emergencies, where one waits for hours. In addition, city medicine is often criticized for not taking part in the continuity of care. This text offers him a tool in the form of a simple technical tray: a radiology equipment to distinguish the end of the fracture, a light suture material – no more generalist is now able to equip himself with much too expensive sterilization equipment – but also with the means of rapid biological analysis and, possibly, the teleconsultation of a specialist. In other words, this tool is at the disposal of city medicine to respond to a demand from citizens. When they consult their general practitioner, they are often asked for radiological or biological chronophageal examinations – sometimes requiring work stoppages – to the point that diagnosis and therapeutic prescription can only be established two or three weeks later. Let us take their point of view: they need a rapid medical response, and that is the purpose of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u148	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u149	I propose that the points of reception for immediate care be referred to as "medical centres for immediate care". In fact, the concept of a "point of reception" does not seem to me to be relevant in view of the expected capacities of these structures: medical imaging tray, proximity to a laboratory of biological analyses and other elements allowing for the precise provision of immediate care, as the rapporteur has described well – I agree with the specifications thus provided for. In the event of a problem that is not a vital emergency but still requires care, for example on Sundays, one goes "to the CMSI", not to the PASI. The change of name would create confusion. The name "CMSI" has entered into common use, as I see in the Greater Nancy metropolis and in the rural territory of the Grand Couronné. Patients are cared for in these centres much faster than in conventional emergency services. That is why I am making this semantic proposal which is important: let us keep the name used in the territories – I know the members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats attentive to their consideration. The name imposed by Paris would not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u150	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u151	I hear your proposal, but it is somewhat "chauvin" – we use the name of medical center for immediate care in your territory. These structures exist in fact, but they have different names depending on the place, whether they are medical homes equipped with a small technical tray or, as in your home, medical centres. The whole point of this bill is precisely to label them so that our fellow citizens can identify them, even if they change departments, by means of the orange cross and a uniform name. Whatever the bottle is, as long as we get drunk! Finally, the Senate adopted an interesting amendment allowing nurses, in addition to general practitioners in the sector, to intervene in these centres. That is why the name of a medical centre is reductive; It's better to have a reception point. I propose that the amendment be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u153	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u154	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u155	I don't understand you, Mr. Bazin. At the moment, you explained to us that this complicated device would be too organized and probably, watermarked, imposed by a technostructure, and now you absolutely want to add the name of a medical center! It doesn't matter: whatever the container, it doesn't matter what the contents are. The essential thing in this text is this: do we want to improve the effectiveness of the existing system? You are a pragmatic man, Mr Bazin: reception point or medical center, the important thing is to provide an answer to the people who are going to clog the emergencies when they should not be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u156	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u157	Let's put the discussion at its most practical level. The medico-centered approach seems far removed from the statistical reality that will occupy our fellow citizens tomorrow. But if it is an important task among those of the legislator, it is indeed that of preparing society for the upheavals to come. Your argument, Mr Bazin, leaves aside all the technological developments that await tomorrow's medicine. We do not hear about extemporaneous analyses that will flourish in medical offices and pharmacies. For a long time now, Mr rapporteur, we have no longer sterilized materials: suture kits are for single use. In short, let us plan ten years ahead rather than trying to preserve gains that have nothing to do with the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u158	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u159	With all the esteem I have for Mr. Vigier, I think by listening to him that sometimes we have to change everything so that nothing changes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u160	We saw him when your group was in the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u161	However, I fear that this bill will not change much. I'm making a semantic proposal, since you want to label these structures. You prefer the designation of reception point, I prefer that of medical centres – where, moreover, not only doctors, but also other professionals, including nurses, are involved. This name, chosen locally, gives satisfaction and allows to project itself in ten years, as these effective structures will deploy. They provide rapid patient care and may, where appropriate, provide for tele-consultation or rely on a medical imaging platform to, for example, switch to appropriate management without delay in the case of cardiac pathologies. Mr Vigier is concerned about what he takes for my wish that nothing changes; On the contrary, we must continue to improve things. What I do not want, on the other hand, is for local actors, as they fear, to be placed in certain paragraphs of the text under the supervision of bodies that do not approve of mechanisms that work, particularly in rural areas and in my territory. Once again, it is absolutely necessary to relieve the emergency situation, but let us not lose what has been done in some of the territories that have managed to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u162	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u163	It is intended to delete paragraph 12, absent from the original text and added to the Committee. It imposes new constraints and limitations on the points of reception for immediate care, which further removes us from the flexibility desired. The imprecise notion of territory could handicap existing devices – medical centres for immediate care – that ignore the sometimes somewhat technocratic perimeters of CPTS, territorial health projects and local health contracts – CLS. On the other hand, a particular model should not be imposed if other forms of medical facilities for immediate care are satisfactory. The essential thing is that health professionals involved, on an ad hoc or permanent basis, have the required qualifications. I therefore propose the deletion of this paragraph from which I am well aware of the origin: it comes from Thomas Mesnier's report, which criticizes the model of certain medical centres for immediate care – Mr Mesnier even referred to "simili-emergency services" while on the contrary, these structures provide excellent local care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u165	This paragraph, which is the result of an amendment adopted by the committee, makes it clear. Let us consider the two dimensions of immediate care: when the prognosis is vital or functional, it is emergency services – public or private, but always within a hospital structure – that intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u167	On the other hand, the liberal sphere can also intervene with the general practitioners of the city, whose action differs from that of the urgentists. From this point of view, I find the paragraph relevant. As for the term "hosting point", it has the merit of stressing the punctual nature of the problems dealt with there; It is not a question of patients going there on a regular basis. This name seems to me to be more appropriate than that of a "medical centre", which instead announces continuous care. SIAPs are used in city medicine – i.e., I repeat, general practitioners and not emergency doctors – to provide answers to ad hoc problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u169	I am also against this amendment: the clarification given by the committee seems to me to be very useful. Reminding that they are general practitioners is necessary in order not to divert the reception points from their object.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u170	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u171	Dear Thibault Bazin, in the explanatory memorandum to your amendment, you indicate that the imprecise notion of territory could handicap existing devices of medical centres for immediate care that ignore the technocratic perimeters of territorial health professional communities, territorial health projects or local health contracts. However, when a technocratic perimeter is created, local actors have not created CPTS. I saw it in my own constituency: the actors took control, they defined their territory, their perimeter and their actions. Where local actors do not take charge, a technocratic perimeter is created. In fact, it is you who add technocracy, as when you wanted to replace the term "reception points" with "medical centres". Frankly, let's not create obstacles that are useless! Let's trust local actors! In addition, you say that the notion of territory is blurred. Knowing that you are attached to the sacrosanct freedoms, I remind you that they are private actors who can work wherever they wish. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] I regret that the LR Group did not support, in 2018, the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, of which I was the rapporteur, on equal access to the care of French people throughout the country and on the effectiveness of public policies implemented to combat medical desertification in rural and urban areas. That is a pity: twenty-five proposals had been put forward, of which twenty-three were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u172	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u173	I am sorry, I was not a member of the Committee of Inquiry and I did not follow its work with precision. I know that Mr Vigier has always fought for projects in his territory and I pay great attention to the way in which he has been able to decline, in his constituency, the devices to be at the cutting edge and to relieve the emergency. In my department, I observe that territories applying for local health contracts have been, for the past two years, without news from the RSA, the regional health agency. It must be said that the three changes in territorial delegates that we have experienced have complicated the situation – as the minister knows. In any case, without a response from the RSA, the applicant territories cannot draw up a local health contract on their own, without working together. This creates suffering and misunderstandings. As for the emergency workers, some, after an emergency training course, may wish to work in the city, in a structure where they can pass on everything they have learned. I am not sure that it is necessary to partition everything for the emergency workers: they can bring much, including for immediate care. In case of a life-saving prognosis, patients will obviously be referred to the emergency room. I do not want to be the victim of a false trial: my aim, through these amendments, is to achieve the same objective as you, but by amending the text in order to improve what does not work, without changing what works well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u174	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u175	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u176	As MPs of the Democratic Movement, you could agree to discuss the bill! We are not a recording chamber and the purpose of parliamentary niches is to be able to discuss texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u177	[[Smile]] To be able to bark!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u178	We are still in second reading, Mr Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u179	I suggest replacing the words "in the territory" in paragraph 12 with the words "in the region". In fact, some territories sometimes include only about 20 communes and, 3 kilometres further, there is another health territory. The notion of territory may prove to be imprecise and unclear; You have to leave some freedom. I will take an example that does not concern medical centres. I know about ten pharmacies that together provide for the permanence of care. They belong to two different CLS and some are even located in a territory which, for the moment, does not have CLS. Thus, the concept of territory, within the framework of a CLS or a CPTS, does not always correspond to local habits and operations, which go beyond these perimeters. I would therefore prefer the term region rather than territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u181	You confuse blur and flexibility. As part of the "My Health 2022" plan, which we voted for, the concept of territory refers to undefined boundaries that are by hand of health professionals. You want to refer to the regions, but what will happen to patients riding on two regions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u182	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u183	They won't be able to go from one region to another? This would create artificial boundaries,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u184	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u185	...where I prefer a field response, left in the hands of healthcare professionals. You say blurry, I say suppleness: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u187	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u188	Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u189	I wanted to give a simple testimony: in the south of the department of Haute-Marne, there is a CPTS on horseback on two regions and a GHT, a hospital group of territory, which is, if I dare say, cross-border with the north of the Côte-d'Or. All this works very well. I do not want the word territory to be replaced by the word region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u191	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u192	I'll be very quick. Mr Bazin knows this very well: who says region, says ARS. If you have to deal with three RSAs rather than one, good courage! You have criticized the rigidity, and yet you propose an ultra-rigidity. You prefer the region to the territory, while the territory refers to an area of natural influence. The region has rigid geographical boundaries, old or new, and as soon as we change regions, we find ourselves faced with other administrative strata.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u193	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u194	I was opposed to the regions and the size XXL intercommunalities and, very clearly, I choose to favour proximity and subsidiarity. However, within the meaning of the Ministry of Health, there are territorial boundaries which sometimes cover 20 communes. Some skilled professionals, who live and work a few kilometres from this perimeter, could contribute. I want to allow more flexibility. I have very concrete cases in mind: depending on the reading of the bill, in my territory, some professionals would no longer be able to intervene. Let's be precise, or your text won't go to the end – but it's not necessarily the wish you're making.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u195	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u196	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u197	He proposed that paragraph 14 should be deleted, so as not to link the creation of ISAPs to STCs. In some places, there are CMSIs, which operate without always being in full agreement with CPTS. Even beyond the limited scope of the CPTS, and from the time the territorial health project provides for them, the CMSIs may have their own relevance as long as they give full satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u199	PASI are a support, a tool for CPTS. But when the CPTS is not constituted, the ARS can validate, identify and label a PASI without the CPTS: it provides flexibility. There is also no need for competition on the same territory between several SIAPs: they must therefore operate with the same general practitioners in the territory as those involved in the CPTS. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u200	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u201	After paragraphs 11, 12 and 14, I turn to paragraph 15...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u202	That makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u203	...which could be a little improved. The purpose of the second sentence, which is to inform the patient, is commendable. However, in practice, when taking care of immediate care, this information is complicated to implement. This adds to the tasks of staff working in these structures, which – I am thinking of CMSIs I know – sometimes work on Sundays. You have told me, Mr rapporteur, in response to my previous amendments, that you are committed to a form of flexibility. Although the intention is laudable, it seems to me that there is no need for clarification, since the information is public and accessible. It is therefore appropriate to remove this obligation of information which creates an additional administrative burden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u205	Transparency is important. In the ISAPs, the social security rates and the third-party fee will be applied. However, in the event that the opinion of a specialist or other body not practising the third-party fee or applying fees is to be sought, the patient must be informed of this. It's pretty simple: roughly, it's about warning a patient who needs to consult a cardiologist that the cardiologist is not at the agreed rate. Transparency is important in the system. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u207	Same opinion. Transparency must never be associated with administrative complexity; On the contrary, it is a necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u208	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u209	Although I understand that it is not the one chosen, I try again, out of consistency, to propose to you the name "medical centres", which is desired in my territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u210	Your territory is not France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u211	It is true that the problems in Rhône-Alpes are not always the same as in other regions. Let's preserve what's worth and change what's needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u213	Unfavorable opinion. Mr Bazin, in view of the passion with which you have defended your amendments and the bill, I am convinced that you will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u215	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u216	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u217	Mr rapporteur, I have a solution! Let us agree: it will be the orange cross for all those who complete the specifications, but you leave them the choice of their name.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u218	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u219	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For the sake of consistency, I withdraw it: it was a question of drawing the consequences of the name I proposed, but the previous amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u220	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u221	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 98 Number of votes cast 93 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 89 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u222	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Justine Benin and others renovating the governance of the public drinking water and sanitation service in Guadeloupe (No 3669, 3780).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u223	Mrs Justine Benin, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u224	The purpose of this bill is to address the problem of water and sanitation in Guadeloupe. I am talking about a territory faced with frequent water cuts, due to pipeline ruptures, incidents on the network, in water towers. Often unknown outside the island, this fact affects the daily lives of the Guatemalans. The consequences of this situation go beyond mere daily inconvenience. The associations of users that we auditioned made themselves spokesmen of the weariness, of the anger of the people. The water problem also affects the agricultural sector, tourism and the economy as a whole. In addition, environmental consequences must be added. Due to the deplorable state of the system and infrastructure, excessive water losses have no reason to exhaust the aquatic environment and many wastewater treatment plants emit pollutant discharges. In the eyes of all, the situation is all the more difficult to accept since it does not result from natural, hydrographic, hydraulic or physical causes specific to the territory – in Guadeloupe, the water resource is abundant. One of the problems comes from the distribution network, which, old, would need to be renewed. At present, on average, the water actually distributed accounts for just over a third of the pumped water. This situation is fuelling a vicious circle: the shortcomings of the service cause exasperation of the population and thus encourage unpaid payments, which worsen the financial difficulties of managers and make them unable to make the necessary investments for maintenance, renewal and various works. Other factors, such as meter failure or billing errors, contribute to the shortage of users and the financial stalemate in which some managing authorities are located. Funding needs to repair and modernise all drinking water and sanitation systems far exceed their resources, amounting to more than €900 million over ten or even fifteen years. Another problem is the fragmented nature of the management of water and sanitation services, which is an obstacle to the overall governance that Guadeloupe urgently needs. Since 2016, five inter-communal structures have been exercising water and sanitation skills either under management or by delegation to a private provider. Furthermore, the difficulties are compounded by the fact that the administrative perimeter of these structures does not coincide with the technical perimeter of the infrastructure. During the hearings, all local actors, public or private, and even the institutions heard, agree on the urgency of a solution to the crisis. This bill, tabled jointly in the Senate by Dominique Théophile and in the Assembly with the support of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, which I would like to thank here, is therefore putting in place the unified and expanded governance that Guadeloupe urgently needs. It creates a single joint union, whose main features I will detail. As far as its perimeter is concerned, it brings together the five public institutions of intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – of Guadeloupe mainland, as well as the region and the department, which have always been able to show solidarity on this essential issue. It is responsible for the tasks covered by the drinking water service, the sewerage of waste water, defined by the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities. It is administered by a union committee in which communities and EPCI are equally represented by four seats each. The principle that water pays for water remains the basis of its funding, as in common law, but the additional costs are 50 per cent financed by the region and the department and 50 per cent financed by the other members. At its meeting last week, the Law Commission adopted this text in a spirit of consensus. I would like to thank all Members of Parliament, from every bench, for this shows that the stakes have been understood and that unity in Guadeloupe echoes national unity – that is not nothing. The committee made some amendments to the text. Aware of the problem, it first required that users be guaranteed, by all means, "normal and regular access to drinking water" when distribution through ordinary infrastructure is interrupted. The commission has also extended the competences of the joint union to carry out general study missions. Last but not least, she has rewritten Article 2. The initial drafting set up a consultative commission with the trade union; We have replaced it with a supervisory committee with strengthened prerogatives and the broadest composition – it brings together representatives of the consular chambers and those of the users. The fundamental point is that the representatives of the users will have the majority and, of course, the chair of the committee. As far as its powers are concerned, it may formulate opinions and request the inclusion of certain topics on the agenda of the trade union committee. We have done a lot of work in committee, but there is still a major subject to be dealt with in committee, Mr. Minister for Overseas Affairs: that of the financing to be mobilised to clean up unbalanced accounts and efficiently distribute assets and liabilities. We therefore look forward to the Government's proposal. I would like to acknowledge the commitment and engagement of major communities, regions and departments, and all CIPEs. I would also like to point out that this bill is not intended to reduce the legitimate powers of the EPCI. It aims, alongside them, to bring coherence to the initiatives of all actors and to create a framework for constructive dialogue with the State and other public partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u225	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u226	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem groups, Action ens and IDU-I and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I thank all the public and private actors who made themselves available for the hearings. I thank the parliamentarians, the local elected representatives who have enabled the work to take place in an effective and constructive context. I very much hope that the House will support this proposal, which is a road map drawn up in the purest republican spirit, with responsibility for the guideline. I am confident that, in a few hours' time, the House will have a text before the Senate that Parliament can be proud of.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u227	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u228	I am pleased to be in this Chamber to raise a subject that has been of particular interest to me since I joined the Government and deserves our full attention: access to drinking water in Guadeloupe. Elected local, former mayor, former president of a departmental council, a fervent defender of decentralization and local freedoms, I could nevertheless be more than circumspect in the face of this bill that reorganizes a yet local competence. Since the end of the 19th century, jurisdiction over water and sanitation has been vested in the municipalities and, more recently, the EPCIs, who are therefore responsible for the proper functioning of this public service. Why should the legislator intervene in this matter? Because this bill, quite simply, is indispensable. Who can now believe that in 2021, in France, tens of thousands of people are regularly deprived of drinking water, while Guadeloupe still has abundant water resources? We are talking about 100,000 people who are regularly affected by water cuts, sometimes for several days. We are talking about 65% of water lost because of the old system, yet the production capacity is very real. We are talking about a reality that is not acceptable and against which we are acting collectively, even if the state is not competent and even if, traditionally, mixed unions, as we know, are not created by law. The idea is not to deprive local elected officials of their prerogatives, Justine Benin stressed. On the contrary, it is a question of laying the sound foundations for a new water governance in an island environment. Here we are talking about cardinal values that must guide the action of the elected representatives that we are: justice, equality and, of course, solidarity. This bill is a response to the major issues we are facing. This is one of the means of achieving the objective that we have set ourselves, state, parliamentarians, local elected and, above all, users: to provide the Guatemalans with a public service of water and sanitation that works, a public service of quality, not forgetting, of course, the legitimate expectations in this field on the ecological ground. I would like to highlight the work of Ms.Justine Benin and, as you pointed out, the rapporteur, of Senator Dominique Théophile, with whom you defend with courage, we must recognize that, and we must resolve this bill. I also welcome the commitment of President Olivier Serva on this subject, the outcome of which, he knows, is expected by all our fellow citizens in Guadeloupe. I have said this again recently, and in your presence, to the Presidents of the EPCIs concerned, whom I have had the opportunity to meet on numerous occasions: 2021 must be the year of the results. I'm coming to the bottom. In concrete terms, what does this bill provide for? First, it creates a unique water trade union, which is synonymous, therefore, with solidarity. For several years, the governance of water and sanitation in Guadeloupe has not met the expectations of our fellow citizens. Thus, trade unions, such as Guadeloupe's inter-municipal water supply and sanitation union, the SIAEAG, which will soon be dissolved, find themselves in difficult situations that do not allow them to pay their supplier debts, for example, or to carry out the work necessary for the maintenance of the network. This, despite the goodwill of the new executives in place in recent months. I am convinced that, along with local authorities, a single structure will allow for a governance that brings everyone together around the same table in the name of the general interest. This principle of a single structure has been consensual among the IEPs for more than five years. It is the way in which people are created, the way in which they will be created, the way in which they will be created, or the way in which the debt will be recovered. On three occasions, the EPCI failed to agree on common statutes. This bill therefore creates this unique union and provides for compulsory membership of the union, in a spirit of solidarity, around a fair governance that involves each community and EPCI in a joint manner, with four seats for each. The aim of this union is to pool water resources and investment capacity, which are unevenly distributed, but also to put an end to conflicts around resource management. This is a necessary condition, in an island environment even more than elsewhere, to improve the quality of service to users, but it is only a first step and communities will have to take full advantage of this new tool to achieve this goal. This new governance must also involve civil society, including users. I believe in representative democracy, and I think all of you here too. The EPCI elected representatives were chosen by their fellow citizens in the municipal elections to represent them and manage these powers; It is therefore natural that they should be solely responsible for the decisions taken. He who decides is responsible, so he is elected. The law on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action that I defended here in 2019 has also reaffirmed this principle and reserved only for elected representatives the opportunity to participate in the deliberations of trade union councils. Although I know that some have mentioned it, I do not agree with the idea that users sit on the union council itself. However, it is entirely legitimate – as you said, the rapporteur, and we will come back to it when we consider the amendments – that water users can have their say, as elsewhere and perhaps here more than anywhere else: it is quite healthy. In the course of the committee's consideration of the bill, you have therefore taken action to set up a monitoring commission bringing together civil society, a guarantee of transparency that will allow users to make their voices heard, and even more so. If this committee is inspired by the advisory committees of local public services, the CCPLs, provided for in our law, it derogates from the common law in the light of the broad and specific powers entrusted to it. The president is a water user. I would also point out that I would be in favour of an amendment allowing him to have a casting vote in the case of an equal vote in the committee, and another allowing him to be an ex officio member of the trade union council with an advisory voice. The committee may, by a majority, request the inclusion of an item on the agenda of the trade union council. It will deliver opinions on the union's strategic projects, such as investment, its tariff policy and the satisfaction of public service users. Faced with the dissolution of the SIAEAG, I know that concerns arise from the creation of a single structure. On the staff, I have publicly said and said again here, there will have to be and there will be a solution for everyone and for everyone, whether it lies in the transfer to the new unique structure, in the resumption by the affected EPCIs or even in voluntary departures. The State has recently activated a dedicated unit on the subject and is accompanying SIAEAG in the establishment of a voluntary departure plan, particularly for people not far from retirement. The aim is also, we must not hide, that the new union does not have a disproportionate team at the risk of endangering its financial viability from the moment of its creation or weighing on the water bill of the users. It is also important to reassure on debt. The new single union must start again on a sound and solid basis, which excludes the resumption of debts – with the exception, of course, of bank debts. This means that the affected EPCIs will resume their debts as well as debts that have not yet been recovered; But we are all aware that some of these debts will be difficult to recover and that this solution will not fully address the difficulties faced by the EPCIs in the face of this debt. It is obviously not a question of putting the local finances of certain communities, which will have their role to play in this new water governance, and more generally within the framework of the recovery plan that we are all building together. Should the state, i.e. the national taxpayer, simply erase the slate? The answer is no: it would not be fair to users and taxpayers in general, nor virtuous in terms of local management. Should we let the EPCI take over this debt without accompanying them? I know that Justine Benin and Olivier Serva have made a lot of efforts on this subject, so I want to reassure everyone: no, I don't think we should give up anyone in this area either. We therefore have a collective interest in having this debt paid to suppliers as soon as possible. Let us not forget that what is called suppliers are often small businesses in Guadeloupe who are waiting to be paid and are also in difficulty in this case. I am aware that the goal would be that the management of these debts be as neutral as possible for the communities. I think an innovative method is to be found. A dialogue with this bill must begin now with the communities and all the useful actors, the financial partners, both public and private, but also the State, in order to make the repayment of these debts either sustainable or absorbable. I therefore propose that you make a quick round table with all the EPCIs to encrypt all this and have an adhoc strategy for each of them. I will come back to that when the amendments are discussed. Since the beginning of this water crisis, the state has been there, even though, as we have to say, it is not competent. I am thinking of requisitions to carry out the most urgent work, with the repair of more than 4000 leaks, for more than 6 million euros for the year 2020 alone, to the well-known Water DOM plan, to the contracting that goes, with, to the more than 90 million euros of subsidies and investment various and varied between 2014 and 2020, to the "Aqua-loans" of the AFD, the Agence française de développement, and of the Caisse des dépôts, to the more than 30 million euros that can be released on 2021 and 2022, in particular with the recovery plan. The State will continue to be there and to support the creation of a quality public water and sanitation service for the Guatemalans. It is a commitment that the President of the Republic and the then Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, took to public opinion and to our fellow citizens in Guadeloupe. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Behind this bill, ladies and gentlemen, with a mention for the Group of the Democratic Movement and President Patrick Mignola, there is above all human and a certain idea of public service. That is why the Government calls for its support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u229	In the general debate, Mr. Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u230	Access to safe drinking water and sanitation is a human right and one of the Sustainable Development Goals, the sixth, which provides for access to effective water and sanitation. While France does not appear to face any difficulties in making this right effective, major dysfunctions persist in some territories, in particular Guadeloupe. You made it clear, Madam rapporteur: in Guadeloupe, "the public service for drinking water and sanitation has serious and structural deficiencies which affect its functioning, with frequent water cuts of various sizes and origins". This particularly old water distribution system allows only one third of the pumped water to be distributed. With a yield of between 40% and 50%, the waste is enormous. This alarming finding is in 2021 the same as that of the General Inspectorate of Administration, the IGA, which, in a 2018 report, already pointed the finger "a situation of severe crisis, of a systemic nature, with the increase of cuts, generating risks to public health and strong economic constraints". The IGA then called for an ambitious, indispensable and urgent action plan. Ladies and gentlemen, these malfunctions do not date back to 2018: they are much older, and the press regularly reports the daily lives of Guadeloupees who live at the rate of these water cuts due to a distribution system that has not been maintained for a very long time. Thus, early 2020, Odile said that in his neighbourhood, "there has been no running water for a month." Before, she had "at least two or three nights a week" – imagine, only two or three nights a week! This unacceptable situation is aggravated by the health crisis of the Covid-19. In the midst of a pandemic, many Guatemalans are suffering double pain and their lives are organized around a shortage that is more than ever exacerbated. Among the elements that have contributed to this disastrous situation is the fragmented nature of the management of water and sanitation services. Justine Benin reports that since 2016, five intercommunal structures have been exercising the powers in question, either by way of regulation or by delegation to a private provider, so that the difficulties are compounded by the fact that the administrative scope of these structures and the technical scope of the infrastructures do not coincide. That is why the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is pleased that our colleague has taken this painful and difficult issue with his arms. Urgent action must be taken, as a matter of urgency, to open the door to a lasting resolution of these difficulties, to put an end to the violations of this right of access to safe drinking water and sanitation. The proposal for a law that we are considering today is thus aimed at improving the governance of water supply, a prerequisite for modernising the networks and responding to the urgency of the situation, in particular through the creation of a single service for drinking water and sanitation in continental Guadeloupe. It is not a question of questioning the legitimate powers of the EPCI, as our colleague reminded them, but of offering them a means of getting out of the crisis and laying the foundations for a more serene future in water governance. This text, full of pragmatism and responsibility, is the result of a long phase of dialogue with all the actors involved. Justine Benin was able to listen, but she did not just listen: she heard and acted, and that is why I would like to salute her commitment, her tenacity and her humanity. I welcome your commitment, Madam rapporteur, because you seized this case with arms-on-body while you knew that a mountain of obstacles was standing before you. I greet your tenacity, because you have not given up anything; you have not given in to the sirens of resignation that some invited you to listen to throughout the preparation of this text. Finally, I greet your humanity: it is with your heart as a woman, as a citizen, that you have apprehended a situation inherited from old and long-term practices installed. By working to resolve the difficulties that regularly lead to a shortage of water in Guadeloupe, you have shown that, if we gather all our collective energy, we can move towards this window open to a brighter future that Paul Éluard spoke of, and regain the confidence necessary for effective action. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to provide a concrete response to the water problems in Guadeloupe. Our group, by placing this bill in its parliamentary niche, has taken on all its responsibilities, and we hope that you will vote in favour of this text, which is the result of a substantive work by our colleague Justine Benin. Let's get together so we don't leave anyone on the side of the road that leads to the effective right of access to water! [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Dear Justine Benin, the Guatemalans can be proud of your work. We Democrats are proud of what you are doing for the Guatemalans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u231	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u232	I believe that everyone here has now taken note of the tragedy in Guadeloupe, an evil that is rotten in the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of Guatemalans and threatens both our development and our existence. Of course, our common objective is finally to unblock a situation that has lasted too long. Why, however, minister, go through the law now when local convergences have already allowed for the prefiguration of an open joint union? Why, if not to compel the refractory community by law? Why go through a bill here, when no one knows its origin? Despite the sincerity and commitment of our rapporteur, Justine Benin, I regret this defeat of the Government. Why, even before the discussion of this text, does the Government unilaterally decide to dissolve SIAEAG? This decision is all the more intolerable in addition to the order given to the region and the department to bear its operating expenses during the transitional period. You tell us, minister: "Water pays for water. I want to answer: "Who decides to pay. If you are liquidating the AEIS, then find ways and means to cover salary and other current expenses. If I'm talking about funding, it's because I think this bill alone will not bring water back to the tap. Solving the issue of governance may, beyond the political postures of some, unblock certain situations, but creating a single union that does not take into account the financial situation, for example, well-managed municipal authorities, particularly that of the commune of Trois-Rivières, may create others. In my view, the good students cannot be responsible for the poor financial management of others. The creation, by law, of a single trade union by crossing local initiatives and not giving any information about the origin of the future network operator is a source of incomprehension or even indignation. In addition to the subject of governance, let us make it clear that the issue of debts, i.e. the settlement of liabilities and assets of managing agencies, is the core issue. There would be so much to say about the wanderings and failures of the past. We all have to assume, you and us, but rather than talk about the past, let's talk about the future. What are we going to do about the debt wall that stands in front of us? Since you decide to go through the law, go to the end of your process and put in place funding mechanisms or a default structure that will settle this liability once and for all. In the face of the crisis and calls for help from communities and users, the state tells us that water is a local competence. It's true legally, I admit. But so far, it is the region and the department that have exceeded their skills and, if I may say so, put their hands in the pocket, and for substantial amounts. If we can agree that responsibility for the situation is common at the local level, I also mean that, in an earlier period, the review of legality has clearly failed. I also mean that, in a more recent period, the State itself has organised the insolvency of the SIAEAG, one of whose major debts comes from the CHU – university hospital – under the responsibility of the State. Bank debts, supplier debts and local investment needs are there, and I believe the Guadeloupees are doing everything they can to pay for them. But what is the level of national solidarity? Why didn't you take the opportunity to unblock the recovery plan to programme and finance the necessary investments? For the time being, only EUR 10 million has been directed towards the modernisation and repair of networks. Understand, Minister, that beyond solving governance problems and local good will, the co-responsible state must today send a strong signal and invest. The time has come to help us get back on a healthier footing. In this respect, I consider that the amendment you have tabled concerning debts is not up to the level. To say that the debt suppliers of the IBDs will not be transferred to the future union is a good thing, but it will be complicated and difficult for the IBDs to assume them. What will they do with the staff? How can they pay their debts without significantly increasing the tax burden? [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] As you will understand, I will vote in favour of this text, as well as the Members of the Socialist and Related Group, but I plead for a debt settlement protocol to be found and I urge the State to assume its role. Everyone must stop this game of fools far removed from the concerns of the Guadeloupees, who demand access to water in quantity, quality and at an affordable price.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u233	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u234	Madam rapporteur, I am not wearing an orange mask like your colleagues in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats today, but it is with enthusiasm that I welcome this bill, which aims to solve a problem that has long been faced by our compatriots in Guadeloupe. For many of them, unlike us metropolitans, opening the tap often does nothing. To compensate for a water distribution network that has been out of service for more than 30 years, the cuts are organized into water towers. A timetable is supposed to provide for the feeding of the communes alternately and allow the inhabitants to organize their lives according to the hour of the cuts, which last from twelve to fourteen hours. Added to this are unpredictable and unjustified cuts in certain areas regularly dry. Everyone organizes their reserves by putting aside dozens of plastic bottles, as we see on television, stored in all the rooms of the house. We all remember these recent images of Guadeloupees, especially in the south of the island, forced to wait daily for the trucks that carry packs to supply the population with drinking water. The town hall of Goyave reported spending over 200,000 euros in two years to distribute approximately 300,000 bottles of water to its 8,000 inhabitants. Like all the metropolitan French, I am shocked to hear testimonies from the inhabitants of the archipelago forced to go to work the car loaded with empty cans, which they fill with drinking water at certain points on their route. A young resident of Sainte-Anne, mother of two young children, told me that at her home a shower consists of two bottles of cold water per person. For the baby, we heat the water with the pot... In Guadeloupe, drinking water is therefore a serious health problem. This crisis is not the result of a lack of water resources – as the Minister and the rapporteur have pointed out – but the consequence of a generally degraded situation. It is the study previously mentioned and carried out in 2018 by the Ministry of the Environment that pointed to obsolete equipment, the multiplicity of network owners and the blurring around management responsibilities, which constitute major obstacles to its modernisation. There are also recent problems of water pollution, which is episodicly unfit for consumption, particularly in Lower Earth. "It becomes a subject of public health, and the proportion of people without water increases," says the Prefect of Guadeloupe. This situation is totally unworthy of what our ultramarine compatriots are entitled to expect from a public water service. Moreover, their difficulties are exacerbated by the health crisis that is afflicting us. During the first confinement, the regional prefect requisitioned for three months, agents, operators and water companies to track down a few thousand leaks, with a goal: to restore reliable water towers to feed all the neighborhoods affected by cuts, which were further aggravated during drought on the island. Unfortunately, the water tower schedule is no longer being respected and entire areas of the territory no longer have tap water for several days or weeks in a row. It is therefore a flaw in a fundamental right and the lack of access to water in a French department that our colleague Justine Benin is attacking. The proposal for a law which it presents to us today aims to remedy the complexity of the organisation of the public service of drinking water and sanitation in Guadeloupe, but also to offer a better quality service to users of the public service of water. There is an urgent need for action and renovation of the existing system through this text, which creates a single service for drinking water and sanitation in continental Guadeloupe. We have mentioned the many technical deficiencies and deficiencies, which will be extremely costly. In order to remedy this, article 1 of the draft law entrusts the competence of water and sanitation management to a single joint union composed of the department, the region and five agglomeration communities. This text is the result of a long work, begun in 2015, which I congratulate both the state, parliamentarians and local elected officials. We can only welcome the accession to the principle of an open joint union, which has received almost unanimous support from the inter-municipal public institutions concerned. I would also like to welcome the work of the Assembly's Committee on Laws, which adopted an amendment, tabled on the initiative of the rapporteur, aimed at incorporating into the law the principle established by the case-law that the task of the water operator in Guadeloupe is also to ensure the supply of people, even if the normal distribution system is to be interrupted. Thus, when this legislation is adopted, the law will clearly state "that in the event of a disruption in the supply of water to users, the joint trade union shall take all measures necessary to guarantee a normal and regular right of access to drinking water. » Finally, article 2 of the draft law establishes an advisory commission allowing the association of civil society to supervise the activities of the joint water and sanitation management union. Here again, it can be said that the work of the Law Commission has allowed the mechanism provided for in the article to be refined. In fact, another amendment by the rapporteur was adopted which strengthens the participation of civil society in the governance of the public drinking water and sanitation service in Guadeloupe through a supervisory board backed by the trade union committee of the single structure. When you know where you're from, you can see where you're going. Everyone can imagine the energy needed to reduce an unacceptable fracture. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak, will of course vote in favour of the bill, which it welcomes. We hope that the measures provided for in the text can be implemented quickly in order to satisfy our fellow citizens in Guadeloupe whom you represent, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u235	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u236	The text presented by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats aims at renovating the governance of the public service of drinking water and sanitation in Guadeloupe by creating a single service in the form of an open joint trade union, which will eventually bring together the region, the department and the EPCIs, with competence in the fields of water, sewage treatment and urban water management. Currently, in Guadeloupe, the public service for drinking water and sanitation has serious and structural deficiencies which affect its functioning, with frequent water cuts of various sizes and origins. The water crisis in Guadeloupe is now the result of an accumulation of difficulties. The IDU and Independent Group welcomes the proposed law, which is putting forward a first concrete solution to put an end to this unworthy situation. However, reviewing the territorial governance of the public water service cannot be the solution to all problems. The State must also take its full part in resolving the concerns raised by the bill. As our colleague Sophie Auconia pointed out, water is infinitely precious. It is the main constituent of all organizations. It's in the water that life comes into being. It is dismaying that 884 million people around the world do not have access to safe drinking water and that nearly 2 billion people do not have basic sanitation facilities. We would also like to stress that while water is a right, it is also a duty. The debate on water misuse goes beyond the scope of this bill. It seems to us important to remember that the relative freeness of water should not lead to a citizen's being held accountable for his or her economy. Climate change, among other global changes, has implications for the water cycle and its associated uses. Population growth, urbanization and changing lifestyles are central issues, which raise the question of future development paradigms. How can we feed, heat, educate, shelter and preserve our ecosystems under pressure? Climate change is a global and borderless phenomenon, but has locally differentiated impacts on water. In order to respond, it is therefore necessary to develop action at all levels – international, national, local – with all actors, including youth. The climate projections in the IPCC's fifth report – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – provide many indications of the increasing risks of climate change to water resources, while 90% of natural disasters are now water-related. Beyond 2 degrees Celsius of global warming compared to 1990, each degree could result in a 20% reduction in renewable water resources for at least 7% of the world's population. Approximately 80 per cent of the world's population is already affected by water insecurity related to water availability, water demand or pollution. Climate change is therefore likely to reduce the planet's renewable water resources, which will exacerbate conflicts between uses, mainly in dry intertropical areas, while water resources are expected to increase in high latitudes. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] For the IDU and independent group, it is therefore essential to minimize our greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the impact of our water consumption on ecosystems. This would allow us to make better use of European funds for the renovation of our drinking water systems, even though these funds are far from being consumed. The volume of drinking water wasted each year in France is 1.3 billion cubic metres, the equivalent of Lake Annecy. By organising better management of public services, the proposed law will contribute to a better use of European funds for the renovation of networks. That is why we support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u237	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u238	"We are disappointed, disillusioned, we have no hope. These words are those of Flavie Danois, president of the association of users Water of Guadeloupe to qualify this proposal as a law renovating the governance of the public service of drinking water and sanitation in Guadeloupe. For several decades, water management in Guadeloupe has been a monumental failure: convictions for misappropriation of public funds, non-compliance with the rules governing the award of public contracts, chronic failures in the performance of missions, failure to comply with obligations to treat wastewater, non-compliance with environmental and health codes, overwhelming audits, outdated network, not to mention the thousands of water leaks identified. It is the lack of water when the Guadeloupians open their taps that is the most overwhelming proof of this disaster. In the absence of access to water, forty-four schools have closed since the beginning of the school year. Because 60% of the water drawn never reaches the taps of users, who sometimes receive abusive bills for water that has never been consumed and sometimes no bill at all. During water cuts, some meters even continue to rotate... These cuts are a major danger for the most vulnerable. Access to water is vital, even more so in times of epidemics, to enable citizens to preserve their health. The situation in Guadeloupe is unworthy of our Republic. Over there, the cubic metre of water is charged a third more expensive than here – on average, 3.25 euros versus 1.05 euros in metropolitan France – even though Guadeloupe has twice as many water resources per capita as Hexagon and poverty is much higher there. The resource is not lacking, but its management is so catastrophic that more than 400,000 people find themselves in unacceptable water insecurity in the sixth world economic power. "We are disappointed, disillusioned, we have no hope. Colleagues, the Guadeloupeans can no longer use these manoeuvres that threaten their living conditions and their right to a dignified life. They want corruption to stop and clean and reliable water to come back to the tap. Those who take over the reins of water management within a new structure should not be those who created chaos; It should not be those who get rid of six-digit wages rather than maintaining dilapidated networks. The Guadeloupees want the guarantee of genuine citizen consultation in the water management bodies of Guadeloupe. It goes from the very heart of our democracy. A single joint trade union for Guadeloupe is a relevant level for massive investment, but it is essential to guarantee a genuine public service that does not become the fair for private interests by delegation of public service. My colleague Danièle Obono pointed out in committee the imprecision of your text as to the nature of the open joint union that you wish to create. You may leave the door open to private interests on purpose rather than ensuring the creation of a public administration in consultation with users. The difficulties raised by the bill do not concern only the way in which citizens are managed and consulted. You know, as we know, we have to question the colossal debt that Veolia and SIAEAG leave behind. From a budgetary surplus of EUR 18 million between 2000 and 2007, Veolia has moved to a deficit of more than 100 million over the period 2010-2015, while leaving the networks behind. Where's the money? Who's going to pay the debt? You don't have to say that. On December 24, 2020, Christmas Eve, a single mother with five children received a letter from the French Treasury claiming 5000 euros for a 2017 water survey. Other precarious users received invoices amounting to 17000 euros or 22000 euros. I insist: who pays the debt? The poorest. That a rogue company's debt has an impact on users' bills is a scandal. The same applies to the investments necessary for the rehabilitation of the network. EUR 1 billion is needed; The regional council has allocated a budget of EUR 71 million. Will the State take responsibility for this vital work and thus fulfil its mission of guaranteeing the public service of water and sanitation? Also on this subject, silence reigns in your bill. What about the employees of the dissolved SIAEAG? They are on strike today and here again, your bill will not give them any answers, no guarantees. As a result of all outstanding issues, we will not vote on the bill without these guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u239	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u240	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The distress of our compatriots in Guadeloupe is far too great for us to try to fix their fate only half. Finally, I will quote a resident of Guadeloupe: "The President of the Republic thinks that we are soft. We're just used to suffering; Our children are revolting. Give us water; Otherwise, Guadeloupe will go in flames. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u241	What are you proposing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u242	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u243	Access to safe drinking water is a universal human right. In the territory of the Republic, every person should have access to guaranteed water at home. However, this access is currently unsatisfied in Guadeloupe. This water-rich territory faces difficulties in ensuring a supply for all; cutbacks are very frequent and the majority of Guatemalans have recently faced serious supply problems, even though they are also suffering the consequences of the pandemic. Also, prices are very high: the price of water is the highest in France and many Guatemalans are experiencing recurring billing problems. The Guadeloupe water system is thus classified as "very ineffective" by World Bank indicators. Various explanations can justify these difficulties: the outdated distribution system, insufficient investment or even a major loss, but above all the lack of understanding between the various actors, particularly between public and private actors, and the shortcomings in the management of the public water service. This is obviously a set of major obstacles. We are thus well aware of the exasperation of the Guadeloupe population in the face of the situation, and we fully share the ambition of the bill. Repeated several times since 2018, this proposal aimed at transforming water governance in Guadeloupe by creating a new single union was announced by Overseas Minister Sébastien Lecornu last November, while it was demanded by the Guadeloupian trade unions concerned; This seems to us to be a positive point. We also welcome the amendments adopted in committee to enable civil society to be better taken into account in public water management. In particular, we support the establishment of a supervisory committee with the joint trade union composed of representatives of trade unions and local associations. However, if the Liberties and Territories Group shares the objective of the bill, we would like to make a number of formal remarks which we have already mentioned in part in committee. We do not consider the public drinking water service of a territorial community to be a matter of law. Should this territorial issue really be resolved in Paris? It may be considered that it is not for the National Assembly to decide on the internal organisation of water management in Guadeloupe: the deliberative assemblies of this territory should take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u244	It could last centuries and centuries!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u245	The Guatemalans must be able to exercise their powers with regard to their internal political organization. In our view, the search for consensus at the local level must always take precedence over the imposition by the top of a standard. This is a fundamental political position for us. Thus, we would like to highlight our position on the management of the "water and sanitation" competence. The sharing of competences or their transfer to a higher level must be on a voluntary basis and must of course be undertaken by the local authorities themselves. Why would Guadeloupe be an exception? This is probably one of the reasons why there is not a full consensus among local elected officials. We noted the regional president's doubts about the method of dispossessing local elected officials from their prerogatives to organise the water service, or the fact that one of the five EPCIs concerned has announced that they do not support the initiative. Finally, we wish to stress the financial issue. It is a question of a financial commitment by the State of the order of EUR 10 million under the recovery plan, but the total planned cost for the renovation of the public drinking water service is much higher, since it is estimated at the bottom of the line at EUR 900 million. At this level of commitment, how can the renovation be funded? We find it unfortunate that the financing, which is fundamental to the operation, is not more detailed. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Ultimately, if we of course share the ambition of this bill, we will abstain. We consider the method used insufficiently respectful of the autonomy of local authorities, to which – as you know – our group is very attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u246	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u247	We have to debate the proposal for a law by our colleague Justine Benin on the governance of the public drinking water and sanitation service in Guadeloupe. It must be said that the structural shortcomings of this service have reached a point of no return. Indeed, how can we accept, in 2021, that thousands of citizens of the sixth world power do not have access to drinking water on a daily basis? How can we admit that in the territory of the Republic, for compatriots who do not live on a rock lost in the immensity of the Atlantic Ocean but in the heart of heavily densified agglomerations, the water that flows every time they open the tap is unfit for consumption, forcing them to turn to the water in bottles to survive while they pay the most expensive water in the country? This really goes beyond understanding. Yet this is the reality of our compatriots in Guadeloupe, who are forced to rotate water and pay for the consequences of decades of abandonment, the result of which is an old, poorly maintained distribution system and a completely inadequate sanitation system. The situation is so serious that water is now the primary concern of the people of Guatemala, in the face of unemployment, health, chlordecone pollution and safety. Colleagues, you have heard: in 2021, the first concern of the 400,000 French in Guadeloupe is to know when they will finally be able to access water without cuts, and above all of normal quality. I'm ashamed, I'm really ashamed of our country. I am ashamed that the situation has been allowed to deteriorate to such an extent that national representation must now take over from the debate on an issue that should normally have been settled locally. If only the State agreed to assume its share of responsibility...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u248	You'd have to know!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u249	... in the fact that access to the water of the Guadeloupees has been abandoned! Alas, three times alas! The elected representatives of Guadeloupe have committed themselves to the creation of an open joint trade union; our colleague's proposal goes in this direction. It is now up to us to ensure not only the economic viability of this structure, which will have to make the necessary investments – estimated at around 600 million euros, they will only be possible with the support of the State, which will have to avoid once again defeating local authorities – but also with renewed governance, which will necessarily have to integrate civil society in order not to duplicate the mistakes of the past. Elected from Guyana, I look very carefully at what is happening in our Guadeloupian neighbours. Guyana is a land of water, which ranks second in the world ranking of available and renewable water resources per capita, but we sometimes face similar problems. While in the next twenty-five years, the population growth and the expected rise in living standards will necessarily be accompanied by an explosion in the use of water, we all have an interest in asking ourselves the essential question of how we can collectively address these issues. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on a few benches of the Dem group]] I interviewed elected representatives from Guadeloupe, who explained to me their perplexity with regard to the current situation. They introduced amendments to the text; they expect national representation to give them a favourable opinion. As we play a balancing game, it is the sine qua non for the GDR Group to vote on the bill. Otherwise, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u250	Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u251	The Guadeloupeans and the Guadeloupeans are watching us, because our responsibility today is historic. We have a heavy responsibility to bring water back, at all costs, to the taps of our fellow citizens in Guadeloupe and to ensure that waste water is treated, in order to avoid a future health scandal. The water crisis in Guadeloupe is an already ancient scourge. Successive changes in governance, mismanagement and financial gabegy have helped to make water and sanitation systems obsolete and deprive our compatriots of two basic resources: drinking water and trust. For almost forty years, drinking water has not reached the tap of the Guadeloupeans and the Guadeloupeans in sufficient quantity and quality, who have to endure, with resilience and patience, constant cuts, days or even weeks without water. It's unbearable! At its hearing by the overseas delegation in May 2016, Pierre-Alain Roche, coordinator of the report entitled "Proposals for an action plan for water in the overseas departments and regions and in Saint-Martin", was amazed at the extreme patience of the inhabitants of Guadeloupe. It is true that if this situation were to be repeated in any other place in France, social peace would be threatened. The troubled health era that we are going through makes exercise even more difficult, if not dangerous. Another resource has been exhausted by the water scandal in Guadeloupe: the confidence of our fellow citizens. This resource is, however, essential to the stability of democracy. This bill aims at renovating water and sanitation governance through the creation of a single drinking water and sanitation union in continental Guadeloupe, bringing together all local authorities – the agglomeration communities, the region, the department –, users, consular chambers, including chambers of commerce and industry, trades, crafts, agriculture and the social and solidarity economy – so that a solution is put in place quickly to improve and modernise networks and respond to the emergency. Beyond the public service of drinking water, it is democracy in Guadeloupe that we are given to reinvent through this text, in a sense that must preserve the general interest of Guadeloupe as the only compass. This text also makes democracy a stronger life, if we refer to the hopes and reactions as rich as different that have been expressed before and during our debates by the population and the political class as a whole. Some have denounced a serious and unprecedented attack on the free administration of local authorities. This argument must be heard and it must be ensured that the text will be the subject of such a political consensus that nothing more can question it in its foundations. In committee, I have defended amendments aimed at reaffirming local freedoms, in order to ensure that the spirit of the legislator is not violated in any way with regard to the free administration of local authorities. The Minister and the rapporteur recalled and confirmed that the text did not violate this principle. This text represents the chance to make viable a new single union for the management of drinking water and sanitation, as well as rainwater coming from the Great Fund and flooding the plains and homes of the Guadeloupees. I have tabled an amendment on this last point. We must make sure that we do not make this new single union a still-born entity – a Titanic, as some would say at home. In order for the dissolution of SIAEAG not to lead the financing capacity and operating budgets of the agglomeration communities, the State will have to accompany the EPCIs. In this regard, Minister, I appreciated your intervention, which reassured me of the neutrality of this new structure on the finances of the EPCI and the new union. It is indeed essential to free the new structure and the communities of agglomeration from the burden of supplier debts, by accompanying the collection of debts – which are more numerous than the debts – so that the State undertakes to ensure the financial neutrality of the process of setting up the single water union. As for the staff of SIAEAG, it must be ensured that there will be no redundancies. However, it must be made clear to CIPOs that they will not bear the burden of an unbearable salary bill for them financially. It is also important to underline the courage of the associations and committees for the defence of the water users of Guadeloupe, which, for almost forty years, have made their voices heard for the good of the population. I want users to be able to be represented at all levels – deliberative and consultative – of the new open joint union. The minister has just reassured me on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] With the reservations that I have just expressed – which you have largely lifted, Mr Minister – I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this bill following the Law Committee, thereby working for democracy to bring water back to the taps of our fellow citizens and to give them confidence in democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u252	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u253	This text, which is rather consensual, is well presented. The Breton who presides over our session this morning, as well as the Normand and the Guadeloupean, do not lack water: we will therefore try to agree during this debate, in order to solve a real difficulty concerning the supply of water in Guadeloupe – which is a paradox, since the resource there is abundant. This paradox has persisted for many years and the daily lives of our fellow Guyaloupians are poisoned by supply difficulties. Some do important work at home; There are tanks, trucks that carry thousands of packs of water. Access to water is a daily concern, while the right to water is universal. This situation also has negative economic consequences, particularly in the hotel sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u254	In French Guiana too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u255	We can therefore thank Justine Benin for considering the matter. I know that she has discussed the matter at length with some of my colleagues, notably Véronique Louwagie. In addition to the cuts, it should be noted that yields are very poor, since in some places 70% of the water escapes into the wild. The water goes to the water. That doesn't make any sense! To this are added the problems of unpaid payments raised by each other. In a report published in 2018, the General Inspectorate of Administration – IGA – spoke of "systemic crisis": that is, little. In fact, the question is older. There are issues of governance, procurement, work, public-private relations. In short, we find all the ingredients of a cocktail – paradoxically, since it is water – which is rather explosive. The state obviously tried to put the speakers around the table. Communities have been working on the subject for years, and users are also very concerned. Like our colleague Castellani, I, for my part, am very committed to local self-government. However, while some subjects need to be dealt with at local level, the State must sometimes intervene as a guarantor of the collective interest, for various and varied reasons – I do not judge local authorities – even if this may appear a little in contradiction with this principle of autonomy. This is the meaning of the proposed law, but there are still many questions about the status of staff, the financial situation and assets of existing public institutions, or debts. The state seems to be on the rendezvous. I would tend to say, Minister, that perhaps a 'Bahlsen amendment' should be adopted, with reference to Mr Plus: the EUR 10 million announced for a package of almost EUR 1 billion is not enough. I understand that for reasons of equality before public office, the State cannot solve everything. It would not be healthy for him to appear as the magician who can make everything disappear, and it is also necessary to involve the different local protagonists. However, he must be more at the meeting. Of course, we need to involve communities – it's a must. We must also take into account the difficulties that users regularly report: if there are unpaid bills, some bills also seem somewhat bizarre – in short, it's a bit complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u256	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u257	All this must lead us to look kindly at this text which still needs improvement – and some amendments are in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Dem groups]] In any case, the Group of the Republicans, in the interest of our fellow Guyoloupians, is looking at this text with real benevolence. We thought we would abstain, but it is not impossible for us to vote for this text, for the benefit of the community and its people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u258	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u259	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u260	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 26, 24 and 25, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u261	Amendment No. 26 makes two amendments to Article 1 of this bill. First of all, it states that the representative of the State shall adopt not the statutes, but the draft statutes submitted to the legislative bodies of the members of the future trade union. He then added a paragraph stipulating that the establishment of the trade union shall be effected only after the adoption of the statutes, in the same terms, by the legislative organs of the members of the trade union, by a two-thirds majority. Amendments Nos 24 and 25 are back-up amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u262	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u263	These three amendments aim at the adoption of the statutes by the members of the joint union prior to its establishment. It is already envisaged that the legislative bodies of the members of the joint trade union will be consulted and give an opinion on these statutes. Therefore, making the creation of the joint trade union conditional on the adoption of these statutes in the same terms by the legislative bodies would introduce additional complexity. This is not desirable, as the process is the subject of broad consensus and must be put in place as soon as possible. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u265	I would like to take this opportunity to respond to the speakers in the general discussion. Is there a need for a law to create an open joint union? No. Let's say it directly, without paying us words: if we're here, it's because there's no agreement between the EPCIs. In press releases or recent letters, I read: "We're ready to do it, so let us do it." In fact, I know that there is a lack of a community of agglomeration, rather central, and not only in the geographical sense of the term. It has been three years since the creation of a single union was announced every three months, but not all EPCIs have been brought together, which can only lead to a failure, hence the proposed Justine Benin law. As for these three amendments, they are tantamount to emptying the bill from its content, since they refer to local decisions, and hence to the local misunderstandings that we are trying to get out of. So I'm unfavorable. By the way, I am always surprised that parliamentarians consider themselves incompetent to solve a local problem. Having myself been elected senator,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u266	It'll be on the record!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u267	I sat legally and constitutionally for a month, Mr. Schellenberger! ...I believe that Parliament can legitimately seize this issue through this bill. There is no local consensus; It doesn't matter, as MP Gosselin said. And most of us were elected locals or mayors. Parliament assumed its responsibilities and the Government accompanied the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u268	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u269	This amendment by my colleague Max Mathiasin, who was retained in Guadeloupe, seeks to recall the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities and their groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u270	Superfetary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u272	I have an emotional thought for our colleague, very committed and mobilized on this issue, who cannot be with us today. His amendment echoes the three amendments tabled by Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe. The opinion will therefore be unfavourable: the single union is in the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u273	All right, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u275	I spoke at length earlier; This time, I will merely point out that my opinion is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u276	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u277	Full of common sense, this amendment was tabled by Olivier Serva. As he had not been able to prosper because of article 40, the Government took it back, but Olivier Serva would surely want to say a word about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u279	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u280	Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u281	For the moment, we are talking about drinking water and sanitation; It's the small cycle of water. But there is also the great cycle of water: the rain that falls from the sky, that runs – yes, that runs! -...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u282	Yes, we like runoff at En Marche!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u283	... and which sometimes disturbs, when leaving the Grand Fonds, the plains where houses are found and especially the bathing places. When these uncontrolled waters, draining rubble, arrive on the beaches, it disturbs swimming, and sometimes even causes death – five in 2011 in Guadeloupe. We propose, and I thank the Government for having accepted the amendment, that the management of urban rainwater be included in the competence of the open joint union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u284	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u285	The creation of an open joint water and sanitation management union in Guadeloupe aims to improve the management of public services in order to better meet the needs of users. In the performance of the union's missions, the information of users, the processing of their requests and the answers to their questions about quality of service or billing are essential. In Guadeloupe, in view of the recurrent shortcomings of this information function, which reached their peak at the beginning of the health crisis of the covid-19, this component is essential to restore the confidence of users in the public water service. This amendment thus complements the tasks of the joint trade union by providing for the latter's obligation to set up an information, collection and processing service for users' requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u287	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u288	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u289	As you pointed out, the requirement for the joint union to establish an information, collection and processing service for users' requests is a matter of trust that would break with the mistakes of the past. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u290	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 3 and 4 are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u291	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u292	Presented by our colleague Mathiasin, selected in Guadeloupe, it aims to define the number of seats allocated to each EPCI according to the number of inhabitants residing in their respective electoral districts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u294	I understand the idea of the amendment, but I do not think it is appropriate, for several reasons. Of course, in calculating the contribution to the expenses of the mixed trade union, the population of each EPCI will be taken into account, because it is the guarantee of equality between all users, wherever they reside in Guadeloupe. But the population gaps discussed here are fairly small. Finally, the amendment would make the composition of the trade union committee more complex. I propose to withdraw it; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u296	There are only agglomeration communities where population gaps are not significant. In rural departments, these rules can be useful, as there are small communities of communes as well as large agglomerations. That's not the case here. The amendment would therefore only make matters more complex. Request for withdrawal, if not unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u297	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u298	I propose, at the request of all the associations of users of Guadeloupe, to have the joint trade union's decision-making body, the chairman of the supervisory committee, sit on the trade union committee. This commission will bring together representatives of communities, the professional world and users. He is a user who will preside over it and who will lead the work. The presence of this chairman, with a consultative voice, in the trade union committee would allow him to include the subjects to which the Guadeloupees are most attached and to verify the good governance of the whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u299	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u301	That is a good amendment. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u302	I call Mrs Maud Petit to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u303	This amendment, which we also owe to our colleague Max Mathiasin, is intended to delete a sentence relating to the 25% limit, which appears to be superfluous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u304	I have before me a series of amendments, Nos 32, 21, 28, 20, 27 and 19, which can be discussed jointly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u305	I take a moment, because it is the heart of the inquiries in general discussion and one of the major concerns for the future of operations. It's about making sure the joint union works properly. We have a structure with bank debts, but also supplier debts to a number of companies, including local ones. Often, we think of companies far from the field, but sometimes they are all small businesses in Guadeloupe, which unfortunately find themselves making cash advances despite them because they are not paid by the various management bodies, in particular SIAEAG. It would not be a good management to simply erase the slate. It was said that water paid for water, and Mr. Gosselin and a few others recalled the importance of respecting local freedoms. In fact, I have noted that some people intend to abstain from the bill, as it is a direct intervention on a jurisdiction that is highly decentralized by law. Several interventions in general discussion seemed to me to be marked by a spirit of contradiction: the state was asked to take over all debts, but at the same time to respect local freedoms. There is a balance to be found here. Debt suppliers account for 44 million euros, a considerable amount at the level of Guadeloupe. It is also necessary to consider the situation by EPCI because the level, nature and seniority of the debt are very variable. Should the supplier debt be transferred directly to the new union? The answer is no, and that is the meaning of the Government's amendment. A new SIAEAG is being created, and the new union is going to be in debt itself, and for the sake of it: it will launch new investments. What brings us together today is the desire to turn the public service of drinking water. The supplier debts will remain with the EPCI, which has been competent in the field of water and sanitation since the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, called OUR – we will not resume the discussions we have had on the law on the engagement in local life and the proximity of the public action. But leaving the EPCIs alone with this debt would make no sense, because they are not all equal and some will not be able to pay it; Some will have an annex budget, while others will have a main budget. [[Smile]] The amendment makes it possible, to begin with, to clarify the distinction between bank debt, which is transferred to the new open joint union – it is natural, especially since there are also claims opposite – and supplier debt, which remains with the EPCI. In response to the questions raised by the rapporteur and Olivier Serva, I will ask the AFD and the Caisse des dépôts to take a look at EPCI in order to succeed in turning supplier debt into bank debt. Debt is like cholesterol – I know something about it: there is good debt and bad debt. We're dealing with a public service that gives rise to invoicing. When you build a departmental road for a departmental council, you amortize, but the debt comes back by definition to the local finances. When a water system is built, it will allow the transfer of drinking water that will be charged to the population for seventy or seventy years. So there's a model to find. I say this to the Group of the European People's Party: the question of the private sector does not arise because unfortunately there are no private companies that want to take care of water in Guadeloupe. I assure you, Mrs Panot: we are in a situation where only the public authorities can meet the challenge of the public service of drinking water, because there is not much money to make. In this, I join you curiously. I want us to go around the table to find a tailor-made solution for each EPCI, which allows the new open joint union to move forward without undermining the finances of the intercommunities. I am launching a lead in front of the national representation: remember that the Government and the majority have allowed the emergence of aqua-loans, i.e. the good debt of the Caisse des dépôts on financial products, spread over sixty or seventy years. Indeed, when working on water systems, structures are built that will age well over time and create prospects. I therefore want local elected representatives to be offered solutions to spread this good debt, which has become a bank, over the very long term. This seems to me to be good management: this mechanism respects the free administration of local and regional authorities while remaining reasonable. Indeed, our citizens in Guadeloupe want water, but when they understand that they have paid their water several times – once on the bill, a second time on their local taxes and a third time on their national taxes – we will find it difficult to justify it. That is why I put this proposal on the table. I call for the withdrawal of all other amendments under joint discussion, as the Government's amendment proposes a robust and robust response to the debt problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u306	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1140.u307	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for a law renovating the governance of the public drinking water and sanitation service in Guadeloupe; Discussion of the proposed law to reform the system of compensation for natural disasters. The meeting is adjourned.
