ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the promotion of respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism (No. 4078, 4239).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u3	The draft law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism is submitted to national representation for a new reading. What could be blamed for this text at first reading still remains. The desire to create a legislative arsenal that would punish the behaviour of a minority results in excessive restrictions on freedom for many. This text falls into the middle of the collective sanction to put an end to the drifts of some fanatics. The history of this text, since the beginning of its elaboration, is a synthesis of many renunciations, among which is the identification of the enemy: Islamism. The few measures that, by their nature, allow the perpetrators to be targeted, in fact, only attack the surface of the problem without addressing the substance of the problem. Unfortunately, some good measures are part of a very insufficient set of measures to combat effectively, in practice and in substance the abuses we know. It is a text not of action but of reaction to insecurity and different forms of separatism. Its effects, such as its measurements, will therefore be superficial. Separatism has not only a political but also a judicial origin. As a result of massive immigration, it is fuelled by a judicial laxity made inevitable by the prison overload in our country. This is why, instead of the few measures contained in the text, it is necessary first of all to stop repatriating the jihadists, to expel foreign offenders imprisoned in France and to deprive them of their nationality when they are binationals. These measures, far from the announcement effects contained in the bill, are concrete and popular with our fellow citizens, contrary to the mechanisms that are the subject of our debate today. First and foremost of the measures that are worrying our compatriots, the establishment of a system to ban family education is seen as an unjustified and disproportionate measure. Its rehabilitation, after its abolition by the Senate, leads to misunderstanding among our fellow citizens. The reference to the implementing decree for the implementation of article 21, which concerns it, suggests the legalization of a system of the most restrictive. However, family education has been successful for many years. Restricting it in this way, because of the abuse of a minority, would be a political mistake going against history, and a profound injustice for those who practice this education in accordance with the rules, by also removing many positive effects for their children. This system allows for educational innovations and adaptation to the personal situation of each student. It meets the requirement of respect for the freedom of inquiry, which is considered a fundamental right. The richness of our educational system, a guarantee of pluralism, characteristic of democratic societies, requires the continuation of educational diversity, manifested by the cohabitation of public schools, private schools under contract or out of contract and family education. The parliamentary shuttle was introduced into the text with a provision to impose a fine on him or her for obstructing the performance of his or her duties as a teacher. Such a measure only solves part of the problem and in a very superficial way. So Samuel Paty's drama will not have served you as a lesson. The problem is not at the level of pressure on teachers and aimed at censorship, but at the level of public safety. If teachers fear for their freedom of expression, they have more to fear for their lives, so much so that a study conducted by the FIFG for the Jean-Jaurès Foundation reveals that 49% of secondary school teachers have already self-censored. The climate is so harmful that there is no longer even a need to interfere with the exercise of the teaching function in a concerted manner or through threats, since the people concerned are already taking care of self-censorship. This is an unacceptable reality in a country such as France, where science and knowledge must radiate without hindrance. The text also uses a particularly vague and risky wording. What does "interrupt in a concerted manner" mean? If several parents find it justified to repeat the teaching methods of a teacher, is this a concerted obstacle that could result in a fine of 15,000 euros and a year's imprisonment? The drafting of the Senate had at least the merit of rigour and precision, but everything that was done by the upper house must, for political and partisan reasons, be defeated by the lower house of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u4	I think it's pretty much the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u5	[[Applause from non-attached Members]] And this is the case throughout the text, which is marked by inappropriate, imprecise measures decorated with realities, excessively liberticides. What is known as separatism is a problem less of a legislative arsenal than of the application of the existing arsenal by the courts. That is why this umpteenth text will in fact have only marginal impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u6	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u7	Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, in the war that Islamism declares to us, you have capitulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u8	All in nuances!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u9	During the first reading in the National Assembly, the deputies of the National Rally denounced the weakness of your bill and, above all, its inability to truly combat the Islamist scourge. We've already said it, but we have to say it again: who can believe for a moment that a Republican contract of engagement will be enough to neutralize Daesh's soldiers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u10	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u11	In a constructive spirit, we had then tabled many amendments to strengthen this text, but Members in the Marche unfortunately rejected them all out of sectarianism. That is why I would like to welcome most of the amendments made during the Senate's consideration of this text, which include many of the proposals that we have defended. Unfortunately, most of these common sense amendments have just been removed from the bill in special committee by the March MPs. The sincerity with which the Government, the President of the Republic and the deputies of the majority wanted to combat the Islamist scourge was then questioned. Indeed, in your bill you refuse to name evil and target it, preferring to penalize all French people rather than Islamists. For example, the bill was widely referred to as "a bill to uphold the principles of the Republic". Because, while this text is intended to defend the principles of the Republic, the votes of the deputies of the Republic on the March Group are, without a doubt, indicative of the idea that Emmanuel Macron is making of the evolution that must be known to our society. As a reminder, MPs in the Marche abolished the ban on wearing veils for young girls. The Republic of Emmanuel Macron, therefore, is to leave children, from an early age, locked up in their textile prison and condone an archaic system of submission of the woman. Our vision of the French Republic is to defend gender equality and guarantee women's freedom. The MPs in March have removed the ban on wearing the veil for school attendants. The Republic of Emmanuel Macron is therefore exposing our children to religious proselytism and fanatical ideology, even at school. Our vision of the French Republic is to ensure respect for the neutrality of public service and to preserve children from obscurantism in the school environment. The deputies in the Marche abolished the dissolution of associations organizing non-mixed meetings. The Republic of Emmanuel Macron therefore supports the holding of meetings of a racist or sexist nature and imports into France the racialist conflicts that divide American society. Our vision of the French Republic is to defend equal rights and to combat all forms of discrimination. [["Oh there! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are just a few examples. In view of the societal regressions that you support, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I wonder whether this bill is intended to reinforce respect for the principles of a French Republic or those of an Islamic Republic because this new reading of the bill in the Assembly will have demonstrated that Emmanuel Macron and the deputies of his movement are in fact defenders of all the means by which Islamism progresses, infiltrates our society and spreads its poison there. The conclusion is not clear: not only do you capitulate in the face of Islamism by refusing to name it and fight it, but by the same token, you make it the accomplices – passive perhaps but accomplices anyway – of an enemy who wishes the destruction of our values, of our way of life. What a sad irony: through this text, you prove yourself to be the best lawyers of those against whom you claim to want to fight! As you know, with the National Rally, we want to wage war and resist this evil that threatens France with a mortal peril. To that end, we must stop the repatriation of the jihadists who are fighting in the Middle East, and therefore no longer have their place on our soil; It is necessary to ban any expression of Islamist ideology and to condemn heavily those who spread it; the hundreds of radical mosques that preach hatred must be closed; All foreign radicalized offenders living in our territory must be expelled; Islamic veil must be prohibited in public space and higher education, for it is a symbol of regression, oppression, conquest; We must put an end to the migratory submersion, put an end to the model of integration and return to a model of assimilation. None of this will be done once this text has been voted on. He thus misses his target in the face of an enemy who is gaining ground in all parts of society and in the minds. We're running out of time. Leaders who struggle softly – it is an understatement – against an ideology that has already killed hundreds of innocent people and wounded thousands of our compatriots in the national territory do they still have their place at the head of the state?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u12	That's the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u13	The voters will decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u14	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u15	Democratic despotism: this is the danger against which Alexis de Tocqueville alerted societies that were fighting for equal conditions. These words were simple. It seems that every step that the democratic nations of Europe are taking towards equality brings them closer to despotism. Everywhere, the state increasingly manages to lead the smallest citizens by itself and to lead each of them alone in the smallest business. Two hundred years later, we're there. To ensure the equality of all before the law, you organize the deprivation of freedoms and many rights: freedom to educate in families almost sacrificed for 0.02 per cent of students likely to be affected by separatist discourse, freedom of expression, with the masked return of the Avia law, however widely censored by the Constitutional Council, and naturally freedom of worship that you compel by changing the cult associations governed by the 1905 law from a declaration regime to an authorization regime. You might as well say it right now, you're making a mistake. To resolve the issue of separatism, the solution is not in the restriction of freedoms but in the affirmation of our identity. To make these restrictions more acceptable, you present them, and we can easily understand them, as the ransoms granted to an evil that strikes us: Islamist separatism. This is at least what we had hoped for when Emmanuel Macron said last October: "The problem is Islamist separatism, this conscious project which often translates into the constitution of a counter-society. » Unfortunately, the disillusionment has not been long: the Islamists, enemies perfectly identified in the book of the Minister of the Interior, are largely absent from your bill: damage. It is not, however, without having alerted you by all means, including by tabling 125 amendments which I will not be able to defend, once again, once again, because of the legislative time programmed by your will alone. The situation is messy: when you talk about defending the values of the Republic, it is the parliamentarians you muzzle! In the face of this threat, however, a strong response was required, without any false appearances or dull speeches, for, as you know, Islamists have no intention of simply ruling as masters in any neighbourhood: it is the whole of our country that they want to conquer. It would have been necessary, as I defended in a bill tabled last February, to write in the law that in France we are not wearing the veil in public space, because at home, women and girls are free. It should have been said that in France, sport is not a matter of religion and that if not, subsidies are abolished. It would also have been necessary to write black and white that the imams must preach in French and that, if they refuse to do so, they will at least have to pay a fine or leave our country. It would have been necessary to build the capacity to fight against community bars by creating a new licence to better control them. The means should have been put in place to effectively combat polygamy by abolishing the allowances of a mother who claims to be single, while she is religiously married to a man who is already married to another woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u16	So you want to subject our right to religious law?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u17	It would have been necessary to allow the suspension of family allowances in the event of school absenteeism, as advocated by the Senate, a measure which you again refused in a special commission. The right to land should have been abolished because being French is not only to be born in France, it is also to love one's country, its history and its culture. Finally, it would have been necessary to stop playing ostriches by refusing, in disregard of all the figures, to make the link between immigration and Islamism. In reality, we should have simply recalled, hammered our identity to give body and unity to our nation. This identity, it takes its roots in Christianity and we can be proud of it, proud of our two thousand years of Christian history...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u18	And the Gauls, they're going to the ace? It's clean!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u19	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] ... proud to be cathedral builders and to be torn hearts when the entrails of Notre-Dame de Paris burn. To deny this is a mistake, because opposite, it is not so much the Republic that we seek to kneel, but indeed our entire civilization. Instead, this text is a new failure, yours, for it will not prevent the fools of Allah to kill priests and policemen, to behead teachers or to spread terror with a gun in the theatres and terraces of the cafes. Moreover, he will not make our country love more: I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u20	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u21	Mr. Taché, who was included in the general discussion, is not there?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u22	I can't pretend to replace him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u23	Keep yourself to yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u24	Today we are beginning to reread a bill that has been widely debated in this chamber. At first reading, many articles were voted almost unanimously: it was good news because it indicated that we could work collectively, with differences, but with the prospect of responding to one of the evils of our society. After these debates, there was a review of the Senate and to hear you, colleagues, I see opposition, I see that political calculations have taken over. Our colleague Stéphane Little suspects the majority to make tactical use of this text for the presidential election. I would like to refer the compliment to him and I believe that he too renounces consensus because, at this time, oppositions see no other option than to oppose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u25	Oppositions that oppose each other, it's a climax!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u26	Definitely, we realize that it is always necessary to define what this law is not. Is it the law that will prevent indiscriminate attacks from being committed by monsters? No, it's not his object. We have passed laws to combat terrorism. We were criticized by some, who found them too soft, by others, who judged them to be in violation of freedoms: usually when we are under such a crossfire, it is that we have arrived at a form of balance. Nor is this text a text of equal opportunities, which is already the central objective of our measures against poverty, of the duplication of classes in REP – a priority education network – and of "whatever it costs" in the face of the health crisis, which first helped the weakest. It is above all not a text against Islam – I will return to this point. We want a text of concord, which simply takes into account the state of our country, a sometimes cruel reality having seen the failure of our republican promise. The majority are awaiting trial for making secularism a matter of concern in the neighbourhoods. But I refer you to a double truism: first, the identity crisis of neighbourhoods, the social crisis does not date from this government; Secondly, I reject this assumption that we are confounding secularism with state atheism. In a form of reversal of the discourse, the setting up of the conditions for a free exercise of a cult would become an atheistic act: one would seem to hear a statement by the indigenists, who tax those who refuse differentiation as racism. We just want to build a law that takes reality into account. The fight against separatism, i.e. against the ideology of groups which carry a political and religious project aimed at the establishment of a counter-society within the Republic itself, has been an imperative for far too long, an imperative which has flourished on the inability of the public power to hold its position and on a certain blindness vis-à-vis communitarianism. In some of our territories, before our eyes, Islamist ecosystems have been created, forming the soil of terrorism. What is unbearable is that fanatics have found blind spots in our rules and in our rule of law. Our colleague Cécile Untermaier was surprised earlier that we need to remember that not a euro of the Republic should go to the enemies of the Republic. In theory, dear colleague, I fully agree with you, but in practice things are different. There is reality, there are these associations to which the keys to the neighborhoods have sometimes been entrusted, there are concealments and enterrism, there are useful idiots, the sorcerer apprentices who have not seen the evidence or who have not wanted to see it. With this text, finally, a government – ours – acts to combat separatism wherever it has infiltrated, and it acts with clarity because our rules express the republican principles that make us live together, and with transparency so that those who want to manipulate them can under no circumstances take advantage of the administrative mist to do so with impunity. It is also for this reason that this bill does not characterize separatist behaviour. These behaviors are today mostly Islamists but the opponent can tomorrow or the day after tomorrow be different. The law must keep a universal sight, a certain height of sight. I remind you, moreover, that it is a constant attitude of the Republic to proceed in this way and that the 1905 law makes no mention of Catholicism which was then targeted. Today, in this House, for this new reading, our political will is clear: to restore and maintain the balance of this text, which has been tainted in its first chapter and concerning family education. I regret that we have not reached a consensus with the Senate on the defence of the values of the Republic. We could have reached this agreement after the examination in committee in the Senate and on the basis of this text, but the caricatureal positions adopted at the sitting of the Senate right, which it was more important to regulate its internal bisbilles than to defend the spirit of the Republic, prompt us to restore, for the most part, the text voted on at first reading. In particular, the Joint Joint Committee has taken on two irreducible points. The first is the question of the veil which sometimes limits, and I regret it, to obsession. It is not by stigmatizing, prohibiting or reacting without hindrance to current events that radicalisation can be combated. I say here, this obsession with the veil is not consistent with secularism, and is based on an incomprehension. Secularity is the neutrality of public service, freedom of conscience. We extend the principle of secularism to all those who provide public service, but we leave users free to do what they want until it harms public order. The second stumbling block is the total removal by the Senate of all provisions for the control of family education. As we know, it is necessary to strengthen the controls a priori, but this does not prevent the control of the IEF from being necessary. I recall that more than half of the staff of the underground school in Bobigny were theoretically in IEF. With every text of this magnitude, some – this is the democratic game – try to distort its content, but we can say that this bill respects the diversity of views of all groups. The objective – acting against the enemies of the Republic – cannot suffer political discord. We must block beyond what separates us by strengthening our rule of law. We have retained useful improvements from the work of the Senate. We expect this reading to make it possible to clarify what still needs to be done, but, I repeat, this text must be respected in its great balance: the fight against separatist practices is at that price. It is a subject that can only be understood in clarity. I will remind you of some of the issues involved in this text. We extend the principle of religious neutrality to all actors in public action, while respecting the users of the public service in the privacy of their convictions, including when accompanying children on school trips. We strengthen certain administrative and financial obligations of associations, because it is out of the question that public money is used to fight the Republic. We insist on human dignity by addressing the protection of the most vulnerable, victims of forced marriages and those who are looted from their inheritance. We fight hatred distilled by Salafist and Frerist influencers on social networks. In general, we are fighting this whole form of hatred. Finally, we support the pre-eminent role of the school in education without prejudice to family freedom. We are looking at a bill that protects us all. I promise him the same future as the law of 1905 and even the law of 2004: both provoked passions, but in the end they created a form of evidence. Today, many of our Muslim fellow citizens are caught between the hammer and the avil: the hammer of those who assimilate them to Islamism in a large suspicious whole, the avil of radicals who play frustrations to propose an identity counter-society. By providing the protection of the law to those who want to practice a religion in every study, we are doing secular work. It is not a question of excluding but of uniting, not of stigmatizing a religion, but of allowing believers to exercise it in a protective framework. This law will allow the 1905 law to be fully operational in 2021 and in subsequent years. Our Republican pact deeply understands respect for everyone's thought. We are in a country where, when we talk about terrorism, many of us think of religion: that is exactly what separatists are looking for. We have to put things back in their place and name things properly: when we talk about terrorism, we have to think about fanaticism and when we talk about religion, we have to think about freedom to believe or not to believe and secularism. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is what we are doing here for the good of all and, I say, for the greater benefit of a religion that participates in the wealth of our nation as well as others: I mean Islam.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u27	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u28	I now call in the text of the special commission the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies have not been able to arrive at the same text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u29	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u30	[["Like all of us! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] With your permission, Madam President, I will also defend Amendments Nos 647 and 648, since I am short of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u31	You have tabled two amendments Nos 647 and 648. We're listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u32	I want to change the title of the bill. To name things clearly, I propose that this text be entitled "Bill to Combat Islamic Radicalism". You all know Albert Camus' sentence: "To name things badly is to add to the world's misfortune. We regularly quote it in this House, but today it is particularly relevant. Whether it is republican principles or the values of the Republic, it must be noted that these words are so vague concepts that they are no longer understandable to the French, let alone to the Islamists. They are true screens of good-thinking and unfortunately they will not solve the problem of Islamism in France. So, out of respect for the victims of Mohamed Merah, and especially the children of the Ozar Hatorah school, out of respect for the victims of the Bataclan, out of respect for Father Jacques Hamel, out of respect for Jean-Baptiste Salvaing and Jessica Schneider, out of respect for the victims of the Promenade des Anglais, out of respect for Samuel Paty, for the victims of the Basilica of Nice and for all the victims of Islamist terrorism, who are unfortunately too numerous for me to quote them all – but I cannot forget to mention the young Mila who lives today as a recluse in a situation of unbearable distress for having simply criticized Islam: her trial has opened but, full of horror, the threats continue to be unleashed against her – for all these victims of radical Islamism, it is necessary to change the title of this bill and to name a cat, to speak with the true words that say the reality of things, the reality of everyday life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u33	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter I of Title I, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u34	Mrs Ménard, we respect as much as you all the people you mentioned. I will give a joint answer to your three amendments, since you have defended them at the same time. First of all, you propose replacing the words "laicism in France" with the words "the principles of the Republic": why highlight one principle rather than another? Equality and neutrality are just as important as secularism. I believe that it is preferable to leave it to the guarantee of respect for the principles of the Republic, because it is the terminology that best corresponds to the content of the various articles of Title I. Then you propose to delete the mention of the minimal nature of the requirements of life in society. I would remind you that, at first reading, our assembly wished to refer to the decision of the Constitutional Council of 7 October 2010, which, in its fourth recital, specified the practices aimed at concealing the face in the public space: "The legislator considered that such practices may constitute a danger to public security and ignore the minimum requirements of life in society". For all these reasons, I shall express an unfavorable opinion on your three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u35	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u36	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u37	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 291.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u38	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u39	Mrs Genevard is not a signatory to the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u40	We are still within the framework of the procedure which, because of the crisis of covid, allows Members to defend the amendments tabled by a member of their group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u41	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 222, 405 and 650, which seek to restore Article 1e r Deleted by the Special Commission. Amendment No 222 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended. Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 405.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u42	It is intended to supplement article 1 of the 1905 Act by adding the words "and free practice" after the word "exercise" to read: "The Republic shall ensure freedom of conscience. It guarantees the free exercise and free practice of worship under the following restrictions alone in the interests of public order. » I had already tabled this amendment in a special committee, and you replied that it was not desirable to amend this totemic law. Yet you do not deprive yourself of doing so, and your argument therefore seems to me inoperative. I wanted to table this amendment with reference to the serious incidents that occurred a few weeks ago, during the procession in memory of the Catholic martyrs of the Commune, attacked by anti-fascists. These extremely serious facts are not part of the exercise of stricto sensu worship, but rather of religious practice. That is why I believe that these two terms should be distinguished: that is the meaning of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u43	Amendment No 650 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u44	Dear colleague Annie Genevard, when I gave you this answer, our discussions were not about the 1905 law in general, but only about its Article 1. These three identical amendments tend to re-establish Article 1 A, introduced by the Senate at first reading. It seems to me that adding free practice to the free exercise of worship is redundant, therefore useless. In addition, this would give rise to many questions on the part of doctrine. I shall therefore give an unfavorable opinion on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u45	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u46	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u47	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u48	I recall that when the 1905 Act was being drafted, the issue of processions had been raised, as these were precisely an exception to the application of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u49	I have before me two amendments, Nos 54 and 898, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u50	As you have limited the application of the principle of religious neutrality to public service agents, this appeal amendment aims to bring out in the text the concept of public service space, in order to prohibit the conduct, speech, signs or held by which users ostensibly manifest a religious affiliation. You will naturally reject him, considering that he is irrelevant, but it seems to me that he would offer the Government an opportunity to send a strong signal. Indeed, no one can ignore the growing visibility of religious attitudes, statements, signs or observances. Of course, article 10 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen states that "no one shall be disturbed for his or her views, even religious, provided that their manifestation does not disturb the public order established by law. However, one has to wonder about an evolution of the legal framework: while we are witnessing a rise in the power of religious and communal demands, is it still appropriate? That is why the establishment of public service spaces, where the general interest is defined, would be a strong and significant step, which would truly express the rejection of separatism and communalism. In my view, this is an absolutely crucial point, and I would like the Government to move forward on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u51	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 898.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u52	In the same spirit as that of my excellent colleague Annie Genevard, it aims to impose on public service users the religious neutrality to which public service agents are already subject. Today, a user of a public service, such as a hospital or university, may impose on other users their religious affiliation. Expressed by the wearing of a garment or other religious signs, however, this membership may shock if it appears in a space where a person goes to exercise his or her right as a citizen before a public service of the Republic. By this amendment, I therefore propose to prohibit users of public services from imposing their religious affiliation on other users. This principle of neutrality, which I will defend in other amendments, guarantees the protection of our society. Faced with the rise of religious proselytism, which is often, it must be recognized, the standard of a political Islamism that threatens us, society must impose demanding secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u53	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u54	Annie Genevard has already developed my argument, as she recalled the principle established by Article 10 of the 1789 Declaration. This principle is also reflected in the Charter of secularism, which states: "Users of the public service have the right to express their religious convictions within the limits of respect for the neutrality of the public service, its proper functioning [...]". You have referred to the limits of this principle, which the Council of State stated in its opinion of 27 November 1989: signs or behaviour which "by their ostentatious or demanding nature would constitute an act of pressure, provocation, proselytism or propaganda" are prohibited. It does not seem to me justified to go further, as you propose with your amendment, because disproportionately restricting freedom of opinion could raise constitutional issues. It will therefore be an unfavorable opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u56	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u57	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u58	I would like to recall some of the contributions made by the hearings on public service spaces – François Baroin, in particular, spoke on this issue – and then bounce back on what Mr Eric Ciotti said, with which I disagree. First, what is a public service space? The rapporteur has not returned to this issue, but the absence of a legal definition opens the door to abuses, in particular the prohibition of wearing any religious signs. For example, will a man wearing a kippa be able to pick up his mail at the post office? Obviously, no. Mr Ciotti, you made it clear in your amendment that the ministers of worship would not be concerned with the measure you wish to introduce: that is curious! I do not understand why there would be a difference: the wearing of a religious sign by a citizen would be a pressure on other users, unless it was a minister of worship wearing a recognizable religious outfit? We don't know on what basis you make this distinction. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: are you telling us that a man wearing a kippa will no longer be able to go to the post office, attend a public service, get on a bus? Are you telling us that you want to ban the wearing of the kippa in the public service space? If that's the case, then make it clear! Do you think, for example, that it is necessary to prohibit women respecting the Loubavich cult – some of them shave their heads and wear a wig, and are therefore clearly recognizable – from moving in a public service space? But that is the consequence of what you are proposing. I would really like you to answer these questions, because I fear that in truth your amendments are aimed at one worship. Indeed, I have never heard you consider that a priest in soutane or a person who would wear a t-shirt representing a fish – a sign that would bring him closer to the citizens of the Catholic faith – were covered by your proposals. You can see that from a republican point of view, this cannot be tolerated. We must have the same attitude towards all religions, faiths and spiritual beliefs: it is the public service and its officials that must be secular. We will all agree that public service officials must not manifest religious affiliation. On the other hand, the user, the citizen, must be able to move as he sees fit, to the extent, of course, that he does not manifest a will of aggressive proselytism. I do not see why we would deny him access to undefined spaces such as public service spaces or even public services themselves: it would be a breach of citizens' equality with regard to the law, and that would be totally intolerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u59	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u60	In support of the amendments tabled by Mrs Genevard and Mr Ciotti, I would like to say to the rapporteur that her answer raises new questions. You referred, Madam rapporteur, to the opinion of the 1989 Council of State, which was requested by Lionel Jospin, then Minister of National Education. Almost thirty years ago, the Commission recalled that the requirement of neutrality was only imposed on public service agents, not on users. That is what led, fifteen years later, our predecessors to adopt here the great republican law of 2004, which made it possible to free schoolchildren and schoolgirls from Islamist pressure: since then, children can no longer be veiled, nor the ostensible religious signs worn, in the public school. What we are saying, in a thoughtful and convinced way, is that the progress made in 2004 should now be extended to all users of all public services. Madam rapporteur, Madam Deputy Minister, I understand that it would probably raise questions of constitutional law if the Constitutional Council were seized – it would certainly be. I do not claim at all that the answer is obvious, but finally, the Constitutional Council is a college; He does not hold the revealed truth. We Members of the European Parliament could therefore quite well consider that we must take the step to protect users of public services from the Islamist pressure that is now exerted on the cohesion of the nation. Madam Minister Delegate to the Minister of the Interior, I really regret that we lack the opportunity to build here, on this specific point, a text that would have strengthened the nation represented on all these benches and reaffirmed the Republic's desire to protect the French from the blows of radical Islam.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u61	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u62	Madam Deputy Minister, I regret that you have not spoken on these amendments. In view of the importance and seriousness of the subject they were addressing, they would deserve a response from the Government, which clearly wished to remain silent and ignore them. Ministerial arbitrations have fallen: no stance, no courage in the face of the advances of political Islamism in terms of proselytism or ostensible wearing of religious signs! I hear the arguments that are opposed to us: for years, we have lived in such a balance that the wearing of religious signs within a public service was not a problem. But if we debate this text, it is precisely because a problem has arisen, because political Islam has undertaken to conquer territories and souls, because this conquest is taking place today in the streets, in the public services. We have to react, build safeguards! You pretend to see nothing, to ignore the difficulty; But when a hospitalized patient refuses to be treated by a man, we find ourselves confronted with the very denial of what public service in France is, of what the Republic is! The religious precept intends to dominate the law: this is the stake! A public service user cannot make his religious affiliation prevail over the law of the Republic! This is the subject of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u63	The Deputy Minister will answer you once all the speakers have spoken, Mr Ciotti. Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u64	As a preamble, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there would be no illegitimacy for ministers of worship to remain identifiable as such. Other professions, if I may say so, call the wearing of a uniform: it doesn't shock anyone. Moreover, as Guillaume Larrivé has demonstrated excellently, the law prohibiting the wearing of the veil at school does not concern teachers, who are agents of the public service, but the pupils, assimilated to the users of the public service. So the legislator has already done the same reasoning that you are now refusing. What we are asking for, in essence, is the enlargement of these provisions. You all who consider that the right hand would present a form of obsession with the veil,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u65	Pathological obsession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u66	We're confirming it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u67	...I invite you to read the special issue published on June 10 by Le Point: "These women who defy Islamists". Bochra Belhaj Hmida in Tunisia, Malak Alawiye in Lebanon, Iran Shaparak Shajarizadeh and Nasrin Sotoudeh, sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 lashes for defending women revealed: all for this number, posed bare head. They know the price of freedom; They claim precisely to escape these signs of submission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u68	Precisely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u69	The Islamic veil is not a mere garment and the fight we wage against it is not a fight on the right! I'm not the one who says it, but the journalist Caroline Fourest: she has protested against that identity left that you represent. We're talking about sailing because...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u70	Because it's an obsession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u71	...in public space, it spreads exponentially. Let's talk about it! You cannot, as you castigate the ideas of the National Rally, refrain from acting on what feeds them! This is an incoherence, coupled with an unacceptable chill. Either you start this debate, courageously,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u72	Courageously, we resist your demagogic assaults!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... either you refuse it, confirming that your future law will only be a bill of display. The provisions that we call for would send a powerful signal to the followers of radical Islam: you know that and you are afraid of it, so that you fall behind arroguties, or behind political arguments that do not stand the road. Ask our fellow citizens, you will see what they will tell you in their great wisdom! All of this will happen when we support our amendments on the concept of religious discretion, which I shall present in a few moments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u74	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u75	I didn't intend to intervene, but I'm still going to do it. To begin with, the 1905 law and secularism did not lead to neutrality in public space, but to the neutrality of public space, which is very different. Then it always surprises me – I am speaking to the majority as well as the Republicans – to hear you lend all the virtues to the status of the public service, which imposes among other things the neutrality of the agents, when we know with what joy, with what frenzy you have dismantled it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u76	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u77	He mixes everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u78	... opening the door to the recruitment of contract workers and allowing the public service, under the pretext of flexibility, to take off for the benefit of statutory staff. The law that allows it goes back a few months. In doing so, through the resources offered by the status of the public service and which we are a certain number to know well, it is the principle of secularism that you are attacking, which you are reducing! Finally, everyone repeats that they are not obsessed with the veil, and that this bill does not specifically target our Muslim compatriots. However, as soon as you leave the text of your amendments in order to argue a little, you fall back precisely into what you are accused of, which is the exact opposite of the search for national harmony, which is supposed to prevail in questions of secularism. You're aiming at a community by operating amalgams that I won't come back to, but that don't make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u79	Well done, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u80	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u81	Despite all his qualities, our colleague Annie Genevard is not yet a member of the majority, so we cannot assimilate her argument to ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u82	I was talking about the status of the civil service! You have made a common cause to adopt these measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u83	I was talking about the veil. With regard to the civil service, I do not agree with your reading of the law; In addition, Title I of the bill is intended to ensure that those who do not have the status of public servant are also affected by the obligation of secularism and neutrality. Mrs Genevard, you are telling us that the visibility of the veil – since this is your obsession, excuse me to remind you – raises votes in favour of the National Rally. What I see above all is that the stigmatization of all people of Muslim faith leads to frustrations that will feed Salafism, and perhaps terrorism. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] For once, I agree with our colleague Corbière: should we remove his veil not only to go to the post office, but to accompany a relative to the hospital? All this is absurd! Moreover, you easily evoke the case of the veil that marks the belonging of women to certain religion, but what would be the male counterpart: the short pants, the beard? Are they ostensible signs? These are not arguties! [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Let us be clear: the values involved in wearing the veil are not mine. I fight them in the name of equality between men and women; But I am fighting them politically, within society itself, not by a ban that would amount to stigmatization. We have a simple way of dealing with things: respect for public order, which makes it possible to prohibit "excessive" proselytism, to use the term used earlier. Let us not add other measures that would only cause confusion and, once again, stigmatize.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u84	I call Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee and rapporteur for Chapter I of Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u85	[[Smile]] Nor did I intend to intervene, but I am now doing so that all parties have been able to develop their arguments. Mrs. Genevard, despite all the affection I have for you, which is great,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u86	How elegant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u87	... it remains, however, that we do not live under an Islamic regime like that of Iran. We're in France! Why go and look for special cases in a country where, precisely, religious law prevails over any other common rule?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u88	That's what's emerging in some neighborhoods!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u89	If the women you mentioned lived in our country, they would not run the same risks; They could wear the veil if they wished, as any other sign of religious affiliation, or not wear it. However, if I may, let us go back to your amendment. I understand that the interest of your interventions lay in the fact that you were talking about anything but him, about his writing. "In public service spaces": what is a public service space? I have asked for this again recently in a special committee. If you use this concept, it is with the intention of obtaining the religious neutrality of the public space in general, which would transvestinate the very principle of secularism; As Stéphane Peu recalled, this is not the spirit of the 1905 law. Such a provision would also be contrary to our constitutional rules. You don't know that. That is why, unable to tackle the front-line problem, you mention in the amendment "public service spaces", without defining them, without specifying their scope. I have already had the opportunity to ask you whether a bus stop or the access ramp to a family allowance fund (CAF) were such spaces, with Alexis Corbière referring to the public service of the post office. [[Mr. Chairman of the Special Committee applauds. – "Oh there! » on some benches of the LR group]] This amendment therefore serves as a smokescreen behind which point out claims that you cannot make, which you no longer formulate, contrary to what happened at the first reading of the text, because you know they are impossible to satisfy. We are clear about the law in force, the principle of secularism as it applies in our country. Secularity is the neutrality observed by the State in order to allow everyone the free expression of their beliefs; We want to stay in this framework. On the other hand, we want to apply fully, more strongly than today, the principle of neutrality in public service delivery missions. The parallel that you establish between the Iranian Islamic regime and the French Republic, therefore, is only a demonstration of your obsession with the veil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u90	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u91	This is the first time, Mr. Ciotti, that I have been accused of being too silent! Since you invite me to answer you, I do so with great pleasure. If I did not reply in more detail earlier, it is because the rapporteur has made very convincing arguments, with which the Government fully agrees. It also seemed to me that we had already had these debates at first reading, both in the special committee and here in the public sitting, but we can reopen them if you wish. As you recalled, the notion of public space remains to be defined in law. We have had many exchanges on this subject in a special committee, first and second reading, and it seems to me that the introduction of this concept of a white goal in the law would be a source of fragility. Beyond that, I strongly disagree with your proposal. I do not consider it advisable to impose a fine on a man who is going to look for a recommended fold in a post office because he is wearing a kippa. Freedom of worship is constitutional, such as the freedom to practise a religion or to wear a religious sign in public space if desired – within the bounds of, of course, the neutrality of spaces when representing the State. As for Nasrin Sotoudeh, whom you mentioned, Mrs Genevard, I cannot let you say that we would be indifferent to his case, or that we would remain silent. Indeed, when France presided over the G7 in 2019, two years ago, the President of the Republic decided to pay tribute to it by appointing it a member of the G7 Advisory Board and leaving an empty chair in front of the journalists in order to signify France's support for it. With all the ministers from all over the world, who were gathered...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u92	It's com'!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u93	No, it's diplomacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u95	Diplomacy allows messages to be conveyed, especially at the international level. It is also within the framework of this feminist diplomacy that the President of the Republic will open in a few days the forum Génération Egalité in which we will discuss, among other messages of global scope, the liberation of Nasrin Sotoudeh – of which Jean-Yves Le Drian has repeatedly said that France wants it to intervene quickly. France is therefore not silent about this. For years we have been mobilized on the case of Nasrin Sotoudeh as on those of other women. Reference was also made to Caroline Fourest's position on the veil, on which Mr. Vuilletet summed up the situation perfectly: the question was not whether, in his personal capacity, we approve of the wearing of the veil by women. The question is whether it is appropriate to prohibit it in a supposed public space. But even Caroline Fourest does not believe it: she has repeatedly said that the outright prohibition of the veil in the law is not the right method, in her view, to combat the Islamization of a number of minds. His opinion seems very clear to me. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr Ciotti, you accuse us of being afraid and lacking courage, but if we are here, it is by the will of the Government: it was he who wanted to introduce this bill, with the presidential majority. The President of the Republic delivered a strong speech to the Walls, which no other president had delivered before him. So we have no lesson of courage to receive. The majority is courageous on these issues; It looks at things in the face, with a voluntary state of mind and the concern to be effective and concrete, not to remain in unnecessary incantation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u96	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u97	The discussion we have this evening had already taken place in 1905. To MP Chabert, who wanted to ban soutane, Aristide Briand replied that the ban on religious signs would expose to two risks: intolerance and ridicule. He explained that the combined ingenuity of the tailors and the men of the Church would soon have made, as soon as a religious garment was forbidden, to conceive another, which should in turn be prohibited... It seems to me that the positions are clear. However, Mrs Genevard, for the sake of the exchange, I repeat my question, to which you have not answered – perhaps you will not do so any more when I repeat it. If your amendment is adopted, will a citizen wearing a kippa be able to pick up a mail from a post office? Obviously not, but I'd like you to say it clearly! I find that the members of your group are sometimes very silent: you always find the words to designate one of the spiritual convictions of our country but when your proposals have consequences on another of these convictions, you no longer know what to say, as if you were embarrassed! I hope you don't give in to any clientelism and you're completely Republican. I would have appreciated it if you would have said that the port of the kippa is now prohibited on buses and subways and that Jewish citizens will no longer be able to go to the post office with a kippa. I do not know if the Republic will have progressed, but intolerance and a form of authoritarianism, no doubt. You can see, in any case, how much your ad hoc amendments really have nothing to do with the 1905 law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u98	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u99	First of all, Madam Deputy Minister, rapporteur-general, you cannot fail to see a relationship between the struggle of women who, sometimes at the cost of their lives, reject the veil as a sign of submission and inferiorisation, and the case of the hundreds or even thousands of women who in France, in certain neighbourhoods, cannot do anything other than wear it. I see, for my part, a very clear connection. As for the question you are asking, Mr Corbière, I wanted to mention it on the occasion of my forthcoming amendments, but since you are encouraging me to do so now, I am happy to do so. First, you never speak as much of the Jewish religion as you do of the Muslim religion. We've never heard as much about the kippa as we've heard since we studied this text. On the question of wearing the kippa, I asked Jews, who told me two things. First, many of them no longer bear it out of fear for their safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u100	Yes, that's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u101	That's not an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u102	[[Laughs of Mr. Alexis Corbière]] That's the truth! Second, they often wear it with the concern of religious discretion – I quote the words they used – and under a cap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u103	Will the veil under the cap be allowed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u104	It is indeed a manifestation of religious discretion – a notion that you do not wish to enter into discussion or reflection, which constitutes a form of respect for the religion of others and which allows for social peace. But you sneeze...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u105	You're contradicting each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u106	She's 100% right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u107	Free to sneeze... as if there was no problem, in our country, of separatism and fracturing of society! What is at stake, Mr Corbière, ladies and gentlemen, is not the stigmatization of a religion, but the question of national harmony, which we have no right to evade. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] During the debate on the veil at school – I was not a member of parliament at the time – we were promised a terrible bronca, a revolution, the next year. But the law has passed, it has been applied, and we have not heard of it. That is the strength of the law. However, if we do not want to enter into discussions on these issues, it is precisely possible that debates which should no longer be and which are divisive factors will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u108	I call Mr Sacha Houlié, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters II and III of Title II and for Titles III and IV.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u109	You say you don't want to talk about the veil, but it seems to me that we talked about it twenty hours at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u110	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u111	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You continue to talk about this, ladies and gentlemen, while the rapporteur-general has shown you the impasses you are encountering. On the other hand, I cannot let you say things that are wrong: we do not laugh, we stress your contradictions! You say that people of Jewish faith would be afraid to wear the kippa, then they would put a hat for religious discretion. I'm sorry, but if this is not a profound contradiction of your argument, I don't know what it is! We have already discussed this subject a great deal, we have shown you your contradictions. We do not want to legislate on the veil – it is clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u112	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u113	I would like to recall at this stage the requirement of neutrality in the performance of a public service mission. Someone who wears the kippa or veil outside must remove this religious sign as part of his public service mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u114	It's secularism to French!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u115	We agree on this point. What would prevent us today, legislators,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u116	Our disagreements!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u117	... to invite to religious discretion, as Mrs Genevard and Mr Ciotti recommend, in the face of the problems we face – political Islam in particular, but also the communalism that we want to combat in general? What would prevent us from going to a society in which the user would suffer, in public service spaces...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u118	Define them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u119	... the same constraint of neutrality – if one can speak of constraint – as the agent carrying out a public service mission? Nothing prevents us, absolutely nothing, except courage! I'm sorry, but tonight we're irreconcilable again on this issue because you don't have the courage to go any further. Today, you are again reducing your guard against religious signs with political messages, which we want to fight and which threaten our Republic. Clearly, it is not the law that prevents us from doing things, it is the lack of courage and political will. I'm finally coming to the kippa, which seems to be a problem for you, Mr. Corbière. The Jews who wear the kippa, if they carry out a public service mission, take it away all day, to work. Moreover, many of them today decide not to wear it when they are in a public service as users: they are afraid of being threatened, because we are not able, in the French Republic, to ensure their freedom of worship.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u120	What's the connection to secularism?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u121	They also do so for the sake of discretion vis-à-vis others. All this shows that we can do things, provided we want to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u122	It's confused!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u123	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u124	If it is true – and it is probably true – that some of our Jewish fellow citizens cannot wear kippa for reasons of oppression or threats, it is intolerable! It is necessary to act firmly to ensure that the police punish anyone who prevents someone from wearing a kippa in a public service. In the Republic, you have the right to walk with a religious sign, like a cross around your neck; A woman must be able to wear the scarf on the street without anyone coming to rip her off. It is you who are weak and who surrender to these situations! You say there would be anti-Semitism, and your way of fighting it is to ban all religious signs! I don't agree! This is a false position of republican firmness! You are putting forward arguties – quite incomprehensible, I must say – which shows that you have difficulty in arguing. Finally, you refer to religious clothes, but I would like to address another subject: the hairy system. I will take the example of a Salafist but non-violent man – many Salafist Muslims are not violent people or powerful terrorists (Exclamations on several benches of the LaREM group) – who wear the beard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u125	There are good Salafists!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u126	That's how life is! It's not always as simple and simplistic as your speech! There are people who are Salafists, religious fundamentalists, but who are not dangerous! It exists! If you leave the offices of La République en marche, you would see, but for you, there is nothing between white and black – whatever. Well, what should we do with this hairy system: shave or not shave? Prohibit or not prohibit? What makes the difference between a Salafist and the rugby player Chabal with his big beard?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u127	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u128	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u129	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Who's gonna make the distinction? Is that you? How are we gonna judge the beards? You see the ridiculous situation! After calling on the tailors, we will now call on the hairdressers to find out what is secular or not! Let us be reasonable: the law and justice must be the same for all. On these issues, all religious beliefs must be treated in the same way. It is civil servants who must respect secularism: no religious sign must be worn by those who perform public service missions. It is our public services that must be neutral, but the users do what they want! It would be terrible to imagine a political regime in which the wearing of a religious sign could become a criterion for prohibiting the use of public services!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u130	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u131	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 53 and 553, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u132	I will be brief enough, because the debate has taken place. You are deliberately confusing between public service space and public space. However, it has never been a question for us to ask for the invisibility of the religious in public space, for such a prohibition would indeed violate freedom of conscience and religious freedom. The public service spaces concerned could be determined by decree, you know that. The use of municipal sports halls to make prayers is a typical case where the secularity of the public service space should be imposed. Of course, we have to do things with common sense and measure, but we still have to have the political will, and you do not have it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u134	Dear colleague, you have not really defended your two amendments, which concern religious discretion, and I understand that, because many exchanges have preceded them. You spoke above all about the notion of public service space, which I am trying to think about myself, having in mind several limited cases – perhaps it would be up to you to define them. There are many questions and you are right to say that we could legislate on this. However, the Government does not wish to do so. These differences could be addressed if the process of defining the concept of public service space was initiated. As is not the case, I will not say any more and give an unfavorable opinion to your two amendments. We have already discussed this subject on numerous occasions and I believe I have already told you in committee that, in my view, the case law satisfies your wish for religious discretion. The terms used by the Council of State make it possible to sanction anything that is not sufficiently discreet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u135	Amendments Nos 273 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 420 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 3 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u136	The identical amendments No 2 by Mr Marc Le Fur and Mr Xavier Breton's 270 are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u137	Amendment No 366 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u138	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1137, 502 and 154, which can be discussed jointly. Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1137.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u139	We are now at second reading of this important and useful bill, which means that we have already discussed at length our arguments on the key points in it. As you know, I propose with others to create the status of occasional public service collaborator to which the obligation of neutrality would be applied. This amendment is in full consistency with Article 1e r but is neither naive nor obtuse,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u140	A little though...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u141	...I must say that what I am looking for tonight is not to collect your votes, but to address the reason for your consciences. I know the powers of the no coalition. Some, on the far left, among the Insoumis, are looking for a substitute people to replace the one they lost in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u142	No, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u143	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] They think they found him among our fellow citizens of Muslim worship or culture. [[Same movement]] Mr. Corbière just told us about the good Salafists. How about friendly brothers or cool terrorists? Your clientelism will lose you; Actually, he's already losing you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u144	Oh! We're not at the aperitif right now! This isn't the third half!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u145	You are indeed pursuing a mad and vain hope that speaks volumes about the fact that Mr. Mélenchon has definitively abandoned the camp of the Universalist Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u146	You've never been there in the Republic camp!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u147	...to join the mortiferous one of the indigenists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u148	Go back to the aperitif!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u149	You'll answer later, Mr. Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u150	I'm tired of being insulted, president.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u151	Well, get out!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u152	Still others are boundless liberals who do not suffer any Republican cadre. They do not see the extent to which a multicultural Anglo-Saxon society is inadequate for France, nor the extent to which, to the truth, it is almost as inadequate for English and American societies. Who would like to live in this America where communities look at each other in faience dogs, where there is a much greater risk of being condemned if you are black or Latino and where you can die suffocated under the knee of a white policeman on the sole ground that you are a black citizen? Who can envy this model? Certainly not France, this France of human rights where we have been born free and equal in rights since 1789 – and so it is. Unlike those who would like us to live continuously in repentance, I believe that our universalist Republic has no lesson to learn from these societies built on the very idea of discrimination. Under no circumstances can they be examples for us. While I know the powers of the opponents of the extended neutrality to the occasional collaborators of the public service, I do not dislike those who animate some of the supporters of this amendment because I am not fooled by the secularism with variable geometry that they advocate, secularism which is not one because it changes according to whether we speak of Christianity or Islam. The only possible secularity is that which our predecessors voted in 1905. It guarantees freedom of conscience in France and applies to those who believe as well as to those who do not believe, and to those who believe whatever their faith. This is secularism, and this secularism assures us that the laws of the Republic will forever prevail over religious dogmas. I still know that many of us in the majority would be happy to vote in favour of this amendment, with which they agree, if they were given the green light; But he won't be. Some believe that the adoption of this amendment would set the powders on fire. In essence, this established reasoning on the fear of offending some of our fellow citizens proves how indispensable this bill is, how urgent it is to vote on this amendment for the simple and obvious reason that no dogma should ever be able to take over our republican principles, which is why we are gathered this evening to debate this text. The key to this amendment is this: in the sphere of public service, no dogma must disturb the general interest; no dogma must be able to break the equality to which all users are entitled, whatever they may be. To those hesitant colleagues, I would like to say that they will not be worse Members, that they will not be less loyal if they vote according to their conscience and convictions. They will only be better Members if they refuse the trap, because some would like to reduce this debate on Article 1 to veiled mothers. It is to do a very bad service to our Republic. As for us, we are seeking to strengthen this republic to which we owe so much. That is why we present this amendment which creates in the law the category of occasional collaborator of the public service already present in the case law: the Council of State invites us to legislate, not able to do so in our place. Moreover, it extends to this new category the obligation of neutrality, which is already imposed on civil servants, on those particular users, such as college students and high school students – this is the object of the 2004 law – and on employees of companies governed by private law or public law delegated to a public service – this is the very object of our article 1. Basically, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is an amendment of protection and confidence. It is an amendment to protect public service users who will have the assurance of being respected in their rights, regardless of the status of the person who contributes to the public service mission of which they are beneficiaries – regardless of whether he is an expert in court or an accompanying school leaver – and regardless of their religious, philosophical, political options. We must reaffirm that the neutrality of public service is a guarantee for its user. It is at this point that it must be measured, not that of the particular rights of the people who carry out the public service mission, because if we were to fall into this way, then it would be the end of the very idea of public service. But this amendment is also an act of confidence in the intelligence of our fellow citizens. I am convinced that the vast majority of them understand how important it is to respect the duty of neutrality when they contribute to a public service mission, if only because they would not want to be discriminated against when they are themselves in a position to use it: do not do to others what you would not want to be done to you. Ladies and gentlemen, this evening we have the opportunity to legislate by extending the obligation of neutrality to the whole sphere of public service, nothing prevents us from doing so. And I invite you to do so, as Republican Members of Progress. If we do not do so today, then we will have to come back to it later, which I will not fail to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u153	Amendment No 502 by Mrs Marine Le Pen is being defended. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 154.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u154	The aim of this amendment is to extend the principle of religious neutrality to persons who participate in the exercise of a public service mission even if they are not entrusted with it, by creating the concept of occasional collaborator of the public service. In fact, I would say that they are rather "occasional co-actors of the public service". As co-chair of the public service, the vice-president of the Union nationale des étudiants de France (UNEF) was received and heard in committee last year – you probably remember what happened. She did not just come to the Assembly, but contributed to the drafting of the law. In such a case, the principles of secularism and neutrality should prevail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u155	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I will first set out the committee's position very precisely and then briefly give you my personal opinion, which I have already developed several times at first reading and in committee. The theory of occasional collaborators in public services developed by the Conseil d'État is solely intended to compensate persons who have suffered damage while lending their occasional assistance. There is no category of casual or voluntary public service collaborator to which the principles of neutrality and secularism would apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u157	Let's create it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u158	As far as the public service is concerned, there are therefore agents, users and third parties, the latter having the characteristic either of having no relationship with the public service or of having a relationship different from that of the agents and users. Neither the Council of State nor the Court of Cassation recognized the existence of participants in the execution of the public service. Again, there is no third category of collaborator or participant in the public service between the agent and the user to whom the principle of neutrality, especially religious, would apply. However, restrictions on the freedom to express opinions, especially religious opinions, may arise either from specific texts or from considerations related to public order and the proper functioning of the service; for the Commission it does not appear necessary to go further. It is true, dear colleague, that nothing prevents the legislator from creating this category, and I had developed before you, in committee and in the Chamber, an argument concerning the occasional collaborators of the public service, which are many in reality, even though we have – I regret it – focused our attention on school assistants. I had cited examples in the judicial field, such as experts or translators; I had even mentioned the assessors of the polling stations, we will return to them; In addition, all members of the commissions working with the public service. It is true that I had defended the extension of the principle of neutrality and therefore secularism to all these public service employees as part of the public service. In my personal capacity, therefore, my opinion is favourable; the commission is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u160	As far as I am concerned, I will issue an unfavorable opinion on behalf of the Government and on my own behalf. Article 1 is not intended to extend the jurisprudence of the Council of State and the Court of Cassation to "occasional" employees of the public service. I share some of the points that have been raised about the cultural model we want, as opposed to the Anglo-Saxon multicultural model. However, in this particular case, our choice is to maintain the balance found by the case law, according to which casual collaborators are not subject to the same obligations as public officials – this principle was further clarified in a Council of State opinion in December 2013. In addition, the concept of occasional employees of the public service was introduced by the case law to extend the system of administrative liability to their benefit. But this concept covers a very diverse range of situations; That is why we find it inappropriate to define it in the law and to freeze it unnecessarily. Secondly, the Government has no intention of legislating on this matter – as you know, we have had debates on this issue on many occasions in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u161	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u162	I want to pay tribute to the great professional and legal rigour and moral honesty of the rapporteur Laurence Vichnievsky, who has demonstrated how it is possible for us legislators to create this fourth category of occasional collaborators, and to impose the obligation of neutrality on her. In doing so, I would also like to underline the paradox of the argument made by the Deputy Minister that the Government does not wish to legislate on this subject. However, through Article 1, it intends to legislate on the extension of the obligation of neutrality in the sphere of public service: at first reading, we voted for the extension of the principle of neutrality to employees of undertakings governed by public law and private law delegated by a public service mission. So there is only one category left to which the duty of neutrality does not apply: that of occasional public service employees, who, as the rapporteur has pointed out, cover a much wider panel than that of school leavers alone and cover many situations that we regularly face – we have seen again over the last two weekends at the polling stations. It is therefore up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to create this category and to impose an obligation of neutrality on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u163	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u164	In the light of my professional experience, I must say that these amendments pose a problem to me: some people volunteer in hospitals or in EHPADs to play Scrabble, give books and recordings to patients; I have a poor level of religion and I imagine that these people are not all nuns – they're not necessarily in uniform – but I know that some of them carry a cross, even if I can't tell what their beliefs are. By your amendments, you will prohibit them from coming to hospitals and EHPADs, while we already lack staff and volunteers! There are not only nuns, I repeat, they do not all wear the veil, but I know that they bear the cross and are of Catholic religion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u165	They can take it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u166	In my view, it is out of the question of depriving themselves of these people, who I would like to honour tonight, because without them, patients and residents in institutions would be much sadder. I shall therefore vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u167	Very good argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u168	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u169	I do not understand the position of the Government. The subject of occasional public service collaborators has been snuggling in our country for years, this has been clearly recalled. The rapporteur's opinion is particularly enlightening and I therefore appeal to all of our colleagues: the examination of this text gives us a unique opportunity to legislate – it is our job to do so – and to deal with this issue that has been poisoning the life of our Republic for years. We need to include it in the law so that there is not just a simple matter of case law, and it is up to us to legislate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u170	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u171	I speak very quickly because we have had very interesting and in-depth discussions on this issue. The concept of casual collaborators does not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u172	Let's create it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u173	Of course, we could create it, but it doesn't exist. Moreover, you do not define it or very poorly: the amendment, as drafted, provides that any volunteer collaborator who performs a public service mission would be bound by the principle of neutrality. However, the school attendant is in no way responsible for carrying out a public service mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u174	He's taking part in it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u175	In fact, he is not responsible for educational missions: he can carry out mentoring or animation missions, such as watching the procession of children who go to a particular place, but no more. It is therefore not responsible for carrying out a public service mission. Therefore, my dear colleague, your amendment would not bring any solution in this particular case. On the other hand, the rapporteur has rightly said so even if I do not share her personal opinion – which is indeed not that of the committee – there are situations in which adaptations are possible: the siting boards are, of course, bound to neutrality, but they are under the responsibility of the President of the Assize Court, who can take police action if he actually sees situations of proselytism or if he does not comply with the criminal hearing concerned. We therefore consider that creating this category of casual collaborators would lead to an extension of neutrality that would go beyond the principle of secularism as defined in our law. And we are keen on this definition that this principle applies to those who carry out public service tasks, directly or indirectly – it is also the purpose of this chapter to extend this principle considerably. We have to stay there; It's a very important balance issue. I would add one last thing about school attendants: if they were to show proselytism, to disrupt the rules of operation of the public service of national education or to raise problems of public order, the sanctions that exist would apply!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u176	Yeah, no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u177	Our right is now able to respond to such situations. The circular Chatel – which several of you mentioned during the examination of the text at first reading, but a little less in recent days – recalls the existing law; In fact, it is a simple circular, which did not create any new rights or new legal situation, which merely recalled, on its penultimate page, a few days before the presidential election of 6 May 2012, the existing law. We consider Luc Chatel right, and that is why we do it too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u178	I have before me eight amendments, Nos 1060, 278, 421, 272, 924, 104, 431 and 923, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 278 and 421 are identical. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1060.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u179	It aims to clarify the obligations that apply to public service delegates, as well as to the holders of a public order contract when carrying out a public service mission. In accordance with the principle of neutrality, they must ensure that their employees or the persons over whom they exercise hierarchical or managerial authority refrain from expressing their opinions, without the need to specify their nature – religious, political, trade union or philosophical. The purpose of this amendment is not to decline the different forms of opinion which should not be expressed, since it is a general principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u180	Identical amendments Nos 278 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 421 by Mr Dino Cinieri are defended, as are Amendments Nos 272 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 924 by Mr Charles de Courson, 104 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho, 431 by Mr Robin Reda and 923 by Mr Charles de Courson. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u181	Unfavorable opinion on this whole series.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u183	Opinion against all amendments. With regard to Amendment No 1060, I would point out that the purpose of Article 1 is to include in the law the principle established by the case-law that private law bodies responsible for the performance of a public service are subject to the principle of neutrality and secularity of the public service for activities falling within this field. Thus, the prohibition on civil servants and public officials to manifest their beliefs, including religious beliefs, in the performance of their duties also applies to employees under private law with public service responsibilities. The scope of the obligation of neutrality imposed on them is identical and the adverb "in particular" allows to encompass political, religious but also philosophical convictions, as is the case for public officials. The Government wished to highlight this obligation for employees under private law who participate in a public service mission. The reference to religious opinions is linked to the desire to take up in part, as proposed by the Council of State, the formulation of article 25 of the Act of 13 July 1983 on the rights and obligations of civil servants, which states that "The civil servant shall perform his duties in accordance with the principle of secularism. In this capacity, he refrains, inter alia, from manifesting his religious views in the performance of his duties. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u184	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u185	In response to the Government's argument, I would simply like to point out that we have already moved far away from the clarity of section 25 of the 1983 Act, which states, in fact, that "The official shall perform his duties in accordance with the principle of secularism. In this capacity, he refrains, inter alia, from manifesting his religious views in the performance of his duties. Indeed, in the original bill, it was made clear that employees refrained from expressing their religious "in particular" opinions and it was during its examination at first reading that our assembly added the mention of political opinions. As a result, we could still decline them: why not the trade union opinions, which have not been mentioned? That is why it seemed preferable to us, to the rapporteur-general and to myself, not to mention the different types of opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u186	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u187	This is a semantic precision that can lead to consequences. Once it is not customary, we will listen to the Government more than the rapporteurs and we will vote against Amendment No. 1060.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u188	Amendment No 103 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u189	Amendments Nos 274 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 105 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and 433 by Mr Robin Reda are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u190	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u191	It is part of the logical continuation of the discussion we have just had, since it aims to clarify that the duty of neutrality applies particularly in the school and out-of-school context. "The stakes at the heart of this text are known to all: the fight against separatism. No one doubts that it is at school that things begin": these words are not mine, but those made by Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, during the general discussion in the special committee. No one can deny that there are blind spots in our country, places where the very principle of secularism has completely disappeared. This situation is not fatal; It must be combated, particularly in the context of national education and in the school and out-of-school environment. The aim of this amendment is therefore to recall that the principles of secularity and neutrality of the public service must apply to all in the school environment, in particular to occasional employees of the public service. Indeed, it is difficult to understand that mothers can accompany school outings by being veiled, while they participate voluntarily in the exercise of a public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u193	The committee's opinion is unfavorable, for the reasons I set out earlier. However, my personal opinion is different.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u194	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u195	It is intended to add, in paragraph 3 of Article 1, the public road transport companies of people, where community drifts often occur – I have been able to observe it in my department and in my intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u197	It is unfavourable, since this amendment is already satisfied: it is clear from the very wording of Article 1 that all bodies governed by public law or private law which are entrusted directly with the performance of a public service mission, by law or by regulation, are obliged to ensure the equality of users before the public service and to ensure respect for the principles of secularism and neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u198	Amendment No 50 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u199	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u200	It does not deal with secularism, but with the accessibility of public services. It must be recalled that the principles of the Republic must include accessibility, without which there is neither freedom, equality nor fraternity. Since the provisions of Article 1 concern public services and recall the principle of equality, it is essential to clarify the principle of accessibility. In France, nearly 12 million people are affected by disabilities, sometimes with significant disabilities. It is essential that they have access to public transport services or to national education. The principle of accessibility should therefore be enshrined as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u202	Mrs Untermaier has previously tabled an amendment of the same nature. Although I fully understand your intention, my opinion is unfavorable, because the principle of accessibility has many dimensions, the main ones being social – access for all without economic discrimination, at an affordable price, even free of charge – and territorial – the services to be provided throughout the territory. These considerations, for which I have the greatest respect, do not seem directly related to the purpose of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u204	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u205	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u206	Accessibility is becoming less and less respected, often for purely economic reasons. All actors are faced with the need to make public places and services accessible, but no one has the necessary resources, as the investments are considerable for some municipalities and communities. By including the principle of accessibility in the law, there would be an obligation to provide communities and public service officials with the means to implement it. Otherwise, moratoria will continue to follow each other, each having a good excuse to avoid applying this principle. Only the law can make it compulsory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u207	Amendments Nos 107 and 108 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho, 276 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 106 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u208	Identical Amendments Nos 5 by Mr Xavier Breton and 277 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u209	Amendment No 109 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u210	I have before me several identical amendments Nos 221, 447, 568, 651, 762 and 897 as well as Amendments Nos 468 and 269, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 221 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and 447 by Mrs Constance Le Grip are defended. Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support Amendment No. 568.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u211	The aim is to re-establish the provisions adopted by the Senate to prohibit the wearing of ostentatious religious signs by school attendants. You opposed us earlier, with regard to the latter, that the occasional collaborators of the public service did not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u212	That wasn't the only argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u213	The Senate has deepened the subject and proposes to mention those who participate in the public service of education. However, parents who take part in an out-of-school course, accompanied by the teacher, participate well in activities related to teaching, inside or outside the school. The aim of this amendment is to impose religious neutrality on teachers as it already applies to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u214	Amendments Nos 651 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and 762 by Mrs Michèle Tabarot are defended. Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 897.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u215	We have had this discussion many times in the Chamber. It is high time to move forward with courage on this highly symbolic subject, and to affirm the Assembly's will to impose a much more demanding form of secularism in the public service of national education, as well as neutrality on school leavers. The law of 2004, wanted by Jacques Chirac, brought an extraordinarily courageous blow to stop the rise of religious proselytism in the school of the Republic. In comparison, the criteria you are defending, Madam Deputy Minister, lack courage – I regret that. Will your majority dare have courage and audacity? I'll invite you to it. The Senate has had this courage, and we must adopt the same attitude. Do not erase this subject: no one can impose his religious affiliation on children during an exit that is part of the school of the Republic. A child who participates in such an exit, and whose teachers are subject to the principle of neutrality, must not be influenced by an accompanying adult. I repeat, school leavers are part of the school of the Republic and its operation; Consequently, the rules that apply to teachers and national education staff must also apply to parents who participate in them and who are occasional collaborators in the public service. The Conseil d'État was previously seized, after, under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, the Minister of National Education, Luc Chatel, issued a circular that imposed such neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u216	No! He recalled the existing right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u217	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] For the anecdote, this circular was written by Jean-Michel Blanquer, then Director General of School Education. He had that courage, and I know he was in favour of it: on the occasion of the bill for a school of trust, as he was about to give an opinion in favour of my amendment on the same subject, he had been disavowed by the left wing of the majority. Finally, have boldness and courage; Get out of your guilty immobilism, which leads us on a dangerous path.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u218	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 468.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u219	It is intended to reintroduce the provisions adopted by the Senate, specifying that persons who participate in educational activities are considered to be occasional collaborators of the public service, and are therefore subject to the obligation of neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u220	They're citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u221	As we have seen in previous readings, the question of the religious neutrality of persons occasionally involved in the public service of education can legitimately arise and it is not desirable to extend this obligation to all occasional collaborators in the public service, or even to create a new legal category for such persons. That is why we propose to extend the duty of neutrality only to persons involved in educational activities. The aim of this amendment is to place the requirement of neutrality on external school workers who go to or receive a class, as well as school attendants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u222	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u223	I will in turn defend the same disposition, referring to the hearing of Catherine Kintzler, who is an excellent philosopher.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u224	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u225	His remarks are enlightening, because they remind us that as legislator, we are obliged to protect the students' freedom of conscience. The school is not for adults but for children, and there is no reason to impose on them the ostensible manifestation of a religious opinion. Ms. Kintzler also recalled that we can always get out of the assignment. This is a matter for reflection. We do not understand why you are so closed about this – the question is actually a debate between you, which is not surprising. By adopting the measure we advocate, you would send out a signal that we expect both to those who want to impose on others – especially children and minors, a gravissim situation – their own religious conviction. It would be a powerful sign of your will to really fight separatism. In conclusion, I would add that many people interviewed told us that the school was a privileged target for Islamists. We know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u227	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on these amendments which, personally, I am in favour of for reasons which I have already developed in my argument on occasional employees of the public service, even if it did not target school attendants – who, in fact, are part of them. For its part, the Commission considers that prohibiting the wearing of religious outfits or signs to such persons – who are not public officials and whose activities are not similar to those of the teaching staff – may constitute a disproportionate infringement of the freedom to express their opinions guaranteed in article 10 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789. The requirements for the proper functioning of the public service, which may lead the competent authority to recommend to the parents of pupils who are involved in school trips or activities to refrain from manifesting their religious affiliation or beliefs – in accordance with the circular of March 2012, known as the Chatel circular. In my view, this is a very heavy responsibility that we place on principals and principals. This is the last comment I will make on my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u228	What do we want for the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u230	The amendments raise both the question of adherence to the values of the Republic by those involved in educational activities, but also the question of their neutrality. All the persons who make up the educational community, as defined in article L. 111-3 of the Education Code, participate in the fulfilment of these tasks of the public education service. They do so in accordance with the values underlying it, but they are not bound by the same obligations, including neutrality, depending on whether they are or are not public officials. The clarification given to Article L. 111-1 of the Education Code, which the amendment proposes, therefore does not appear necessary. With regard to the proposed addition to article L. 141-5-1, it should be borne in mind in advance that any person, whether a parent or other outsider, is required, if he or she participates in school activities, to perform an exemplary duty in his or her behaviour, attitudes and remarks. Moreover, it must obviously refrain from religious proselytism. It's already provided for in the law. This necessary clarification had been provided by the law for a school of trust, which gave rise to important debates on respect for secularism in this Chamber and in the educational community. Nor can external actors engage in political or commercial propaganda. The vademecum "Laïcité à l'école" – a tool available to all staff and, more broadly, to the entire educational community – mentions the situations in which the administrative judge may have considered religious neutrality to be necessary. This applies in particular to persons who intervene within school premises and who participate in activities similar to those of teachers, in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal of Lyon of 23 July 2019. In other situations, the principle of freedom of religious expression prevails, even if it remains possible to restrict it at any time. The Government is therefore opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u231	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u232	For the support of school outings, the volunteerism of the parents of pupils is used, and it is most often the mothers who respond because they may be a little more available than the dads at the time when the school needs help. It is a citizen's approach, based on volunteerism. I don't see how we can sort out the parents, preferring this one to that one, to whom, because she wears a sign, a veil, a scarf, we should not accompany the children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u233	That's why you have to set rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u234	In some places, there will be no school outings due to the lack of sufficient attendants. You want to select the inhabitants and mount them against each other out of intolerance towards their religious practices. What state do you want us to live in?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u235	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u236	For my part, I am against all these amendments. Every teacher knows how much a child's success depends on the investment and daily commitment of the people responsible for it. It is known how difficult it is in the Priority Education Zone (PEZ) to involve parents or even only to see them. As the success of children depends on this dialogue between families and teachers, it is best to see accompanying women, even if they bear a religious sign during school trips. They are volunteers and do not have an educational function. It is the teacher who is responsible, who teaches. School is the place of integration par excellence. If these people are not allowed to be present and participate, students cannot be successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u237	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u238	Let us go back to my amendment, where we are not talking about attendants but about people with an educational activity. It's still a little different! In my view, those who have an educational activity must be subject to the neutrality of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u239	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u240	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u241	Let's stop turning around the pot. Are we, yes or no, able to remove his ostentatious religious sign? If you have to undergo surgery, you have to remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u242	It's another subject, it has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u243	If we go to the pool, we normally have to remove it – we'll come back to this topic a little later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u244	What about in the shower?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u245	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Why can't we take it off the subway? We are in the most complete aberration. Basically, on the left wing of the House, some are afraid that there will be no more school outings because a large number of mothers are veiled in some quarters. That is what our colleague has just said, and I understand that argument. In this case, let us agree that a right of derogation may be applied in the priority areas of the city's policy, in order to ensure compliance with the laws of the Republic: if necessary, we will fund accompanying persons so that school leavers can take place without any religious proselytism. We owe it to our children. Our Republic and our children deserve it. France is threatened by political Islam; Either we give in angelism, or we act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u246	You don't have to mix everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u247	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u248	As its title shows, the text speaks of the affirmation of the "principles of the Republic". But secularism in the school space is a principle that we should all defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u249	Yes, in the school space!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u250	My second point relates to the accusation of intolerance launched by our colleague Alain David. According to an annual report of the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH), tolerance has increased in French society, particularly with regard to Muslim citizens, over the past 30 years. I therefore find this accusation of intolerance completely unfounded. On the other hand, surveys show as much that the sense of attachment to the country of residence is strong, but that it decreases in the second generation and even more so in the third generation. You know that because this phenomenon is completely universal in our country. That is what needs to be answered and the school must be a place of neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u251	We're talking about school outings, so it's out of school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u252	That is the principle we are defending. When you invoke the figure of the unjustly stigmatized mother, you get out of the scope of the examination of principles to enter into individual cases. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u253	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u254	I confess that I do not understand the purpose of these amendments or the answer given by Mr Ravier to our colleague David. Do you want to stigmatize certain areas of our territories? Do you want to stigmatize some escorts? Do you want to stigmatize a few children, too? For attending school outings, I can testify to the pride I have read in the eyes of children who see their mother, aunt or neighbour accompanying them. Let us take care of this and think about the signal we want to send. In my opinion, there are no lost territories. There is only stigmatization of a particular territory. I am completely against these amendments, and I believe that the majority is, too. Our neighbourhoods and our territories are the first window of our Republic. But you stigmatize them, you push them down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u255	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u256	Are we stigmatizing neighborhoods? In any case, we must be lucid and not naive. For my part, I have for a long time been against the ban on the wearing of religious signs by the attendants. When teachers organize outings and ask for attendants, the parents come, and that's good. I've known school boards where no parent came anymore. Parents were asked to become involved again in the education of their children and, gradually, they did so. It was the mothers who came and, in these quarters, a majority of them wore religious signs, especially the veil. Much is said about the veil of Muslims, but other religions could have been involved. The Jewish community, for example, no longer places its children in schools in these neighbourhoods. It must be recognized that they have been ghettoized, that the communities have separated and that the school of the Republic is now only welcoming the children of some of them. We are told constantly and wrongly that the school of the Republic must be the crucible of democracy. It's been a long time since it was for some people: they no longer set foot in it because they no longer had their place in it. Let's not be naive. What's going on now? Some networks, which we want to fight with this text, have understood that it is important for them to invest in the field of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u257	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u258	They create associations of parents of so-called independent pupils, who are not affiliated with the major federations but who, according to the intelligence services, are linked to radical Islam. When a mother in good faith came to look after her children, we all agreed. When some networks start investing in the public school field, it's more complicated. In discussions on gender theory, these networks warned parents against the Republic school and encouraged them to join their associations to be defended. They are waiting for a subject to pose a problem in order to try to proselytize, recover and occupy the ground. I understand that the debate will be resolved but, unfortunately, the difficulties are before us and the cases will multiply: these networks will continue to work and, at some point, we will be obliged to find a solution to prevent them from being proactive in schools in the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u259	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter IV of Title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u260	We show neither angelism nor naivety, but, on the contrary, great lucidity. I hear the words of our colleague François Pupponi on the need to work as close to the field as possible and to confront the networks and those who intend to proselytize. Above all, I want to react to what Julien Ravier said: if I have heard correctly, he wants a general ban, with the possibility of derogations for priority education districts. Such a proposal reveals the underlying motivations of this approach. We are told: "Let us hide this veil, which I cannot see. In other words, in a school in the beautiful neighborhoods, a veiled mother could not accompany children out of school, but that would become possible in Seine-Saint-Denis for example. I find this way of looking at things and what our Republic is in all its territories amazing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u261	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u262	I want to clarify my previous point because I may have spoken too quickly. I propose that national education should employ people in neighbourhoods where, by using parents, the principle of neutrality of school attendants cannot be enforced. This must be possible thanks to the derogatory rules that apply to the priority areas of city policy. All children of the Republic must have the same right to educational leave protected from any religious proselytism. I hope Laetitia Avia gets a better idea of what I meant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u263	That's no better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u264	Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u265	Mr. Ravier, you unfairly criminalized our colleague Alain David. When he was mayor of a commune on the right bank of Bordeaux, he had developed inclusive policies that were also of total firmness regarding the application of the principles of the Republic. I don't think it's right for anyone to attack what I understand, because they're based on a field experience. Furthermore, your correction in response to Mrs Avia...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u266	It was a precision!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u267	...show how far you're in a dead end. To ban sailing, you invent the notion of public service space, a notion that you still haven't defined at this time. You are considering referring the ball to a decree in the Council of State...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u268	There are more! You want a list?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u269	It is true that it is easier than to get into this work in the Chamber. But, as the inconsistency of your remarks is boundless on this subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u270	Like yours in politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u271	...you plan to ban sailing everywhere, except in priority areas...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u272	Did you listen to what I said?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u273	For example, you are considering banning it on the subway. By trying to make your positions consistent, you end up proposing foolish rules. You have also mentioned what constitutes a major point of divergence with us, and which prevents us from following you: you place an equal sign between veil and political Islamism. For our part, we certainly consider that there can be a recovery of religious signs, especially of the veil, especially through political Islamism – we have mentioned in a special committee, during a very interesting debate, the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood and the wearing of the veil beyond the national territory, in Europe and in all Muslim countries – but we do not believe that the veil is in itself a sign of belonging to political Islamism. Mr Diard, the principle of neutrality already applies in the school context to teaching activities. Furthermore, we have already explained that if the wearing of the veil and of religious signs in general were to have an effect similar to proselytism or to call into question the rules of operation of the public service of national education, or even to raise problems of public order, it would be subject to a prohibition already provided for by the existing law which would enable measures to be taken. The legal framework is therefore already complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u274	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u275	It is unusual, Mr rapporteur-general, that François Pupponi remains the only person to whom you did not reply at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u276	That was an overall answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u277	To him, you don't answer anything. What solution do you propose to solve the problems it raises? You will prefer to stigmatize and caricature the position of the right; Free to you! The process, however, is rude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u278	It wasn't enough for them this weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u279	Answer what Mr. Pupponi says! Make proposals! The substance of the question is there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u280	It doesn't change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u281	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u282	Our group is a little mute but we are not in favour of laxism, because, like you, we are concerned about the real problem: the ghettoization of certain neighbourhoods and schools that have become mono-Muslim, if I may say so. There are many problems with this development. Policy makers have often had an interest in using the 20% rule for social housing, either by applying it to attract such housing or by bypassing it. Finally, the people who live there are victims of the situation and, instead of solving the problem of ghettoization, you would like to impose a double penalty on them: they live in a ghettoized area, and you would like to have derogatory devices prevent them from accompanying their children, in good faith, during school trips. We cannot agree with your proposal. I believe in your good faith, but with your derogatory device, we are going to a dead end. Mr. Pupponi evokes a particular neighbourhood and associations that he certainly knows much better than I live in rural areas where I do not encounter the problem at all. However, it will not be settled by recourse to a derogation. This is a matter of public policy which must involve other means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u283	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u284	On Article 1, I am seized by the La République en marche group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 899.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u285	It aims to ensure that parents entering the school premises are subject to respect for the principle of neutrality. Today they can enter the school or the classroom, through meetings with teachers or various manifestations, by wearing an ostentatious religious sign that can be a way of imposing a religious affiliation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u287	The committee is against the amendment, as I am. Dear colleague, you wish to extend the ban on the wearing of religious signs to the parents of students when they are inside public schools, colleges and high schools. I can't follow you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u288	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u289	Because I believe that if the ban on students wearing signs ostensibly showing a religious affiliation is an exception to the principle of non-application of the principle of neutrality, justified by the fact that the absence of confrontations between religions and between communities is an indispensable condition for the proper conduct of classes, of course, the same is not true for the parents of students entering the school, either to come and pick up their child or to participate in meetings within the school. I do not always agree with the committee, and I say it fairly, but this time I cannot join you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u290	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 900.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u291	It refers to the specific case of examinations in which schools receive pupils in non-contractual or denominational schools. I have checked the texts in force and they are clear: according to a circular published in the Official Bulletin of National Education, these pupils coming from outside can pass their exams by wearing religious signs. A teacher from Nice recently referred me to the case of students from a Muslim denominational college who came to pass the patent test in a public secondary school. For the sake of consistency, I propose that no religious signs be permitted in schools, in accordance with the 2004 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u292	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u293	You are referring to a circular taken on 15 March 2004 by François Fillon. I would only have one argument against you: the candidates you are talking about do not become students of public education simply because they pass tests in a public educational institution. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u294	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u295	It aims to open the debate on secularism in the university. As you know, the latter is taken hostage by a number of groups that conduct proselytizing or propaganda activities that disrupt teaching and research activities. My amendment is therefore an appeal amendment, since you will certainly give an unfavorable opinion. I know that we debated this issue in part during the first reading of the text, but the articles and alerts have since multiplied: the university is currently threatened by proselytism and separatism. This is one of the most worrying points. This is the reason for this amendment, which aims to extend to the university the ban on the wearing of signs or outfits ostensibly showing a religious affiliation. [[Marie-France Lorho applauds]] I would add that our group will abstain on this article, when we voted for first reading, because you have systematically detrigued – and even as a matter of principle, I will say – everything that the Senate had suggested. You systematically give an opinion against all the amendments we are proposing, without ever agreeing to open the discussion on any subject. Therefore, we cannot follow you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u296	Just like the voters didn't follow you this weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u298	We have raised this issue many times. If this prohibition exists within the school, the question does not arise at all in the same terms for the university. I understand we're wondering, but the university welcomes adults. It is a place for the exchange of ideas, which must be open to the world. While I understand that the question arises, I nevertheless believe – since it is always a question of weighing the pros and cons of the measures we are taking – that the benefit of this freedom is much greater than the risk. That is why the committee is giving an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u300	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u301	You're doing the minimum service!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u302	I could develop, but we would finish very late...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u303	You were more dynamic at Mr. Saint-Martin's meeting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u304	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u305	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 63 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 61 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u306	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1321.u307	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Final reading of the bioethics bill; Further to the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism. The meeting is adjourned.
