ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr André Chassaigne and several of his colleagues to ensure the revalorisation of the lowest agricultural retirement pensions (No 4137, 4228).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u2	Mr Andre Chassaigne, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u3	I am pleased that we are once again finding a way together to find decent pensions for all women farmers. "The path is made by walking," wrote Antonio Machado. A year ago, we were already moving together to pass the law that will allow farmers to receive a pension of 85% of the SMIC; For many of them, it is simply the possibility of living above the poverty line. That is why I am pleased that next November the Government is finally making this revalorization, which has been expected for so many years, effective. Mr Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health, ladies and gentlemen, we can be collectively proud of this. I remember that a year ago, on the benches of the majority as well as on the benches of the opposition, we all agreed on the need to tackle without delay the issue of the pensions of co-workers and family workers, who are still the forgotten of agricultural social protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u5	We had, however, been constrained by the admissibility rules that regulate our right of amendment. The bill that I am presenting to you today is an opportunity to give concrete expression to our collective promises. Meanwhile, the majority has also tabled a bill, worked in particular by Jacqueline Dubois, whose investment I would like to welcome, in the continuity of Olivier Damaisin's on the previous text. Signed by 125 deputies from the three groups of the majority, this bill – called in its explanatory statement to give concrete expression to the approach in favour of spouses and family workers, in order to meet a social justice imperative – is "a topical issue for gender equality". How can I not agree? For too long, women farmers have been invisible to social protection. For too long, they have benefited from the social rights granted to farmers. Whether it is the benefit of the compulsory supplementary pension (CRF), the allocation of free points to increase their pension, their status in agriculture or even their own social existence, the spouses have always been placed on the periphery and therefore taken into account with a delay. These delays are reflected in strong inequalities between women and men, whose principle is naturally as unbearable as elsewhere, but the scale of which is often even greater. Of course, all farmers suffer from low income, which is mechanically reflected in the amount of their future pension. What about their spouses! As of 1 January 2020, 97 per cent of retirees with status as collaborating spouses and two thirds of retired family workers were women. It is therefore primarily women who receive an average pension of 604 euros per month when they have validated at least 150 quarters in the scheme for agricultural non-employees only, and 307 euros per month when they have not reached this insurance period. The majority of women suffer from a low level of contributions due to late recognition, a career worse than that of men or the unequal distribution of family tasks. All these factors lead to occupational inequalities which unfortunately exist everywhere but which are amplified in the agricultural world. Agricultural pensions are already twice as low as those of the general scheme, and women farmers' pensions are still one third lower than those of men. "There is more unknown than the unknown soldier, his wife," said Christine Delphy, at the birth of the Women's Liberation Movement (WLM). We could say that there is poorer than the poor agricultural retiree, his wife. It can't last any longer. It is time to make decisive progress towards gender equality in agriculture. We laid a first stone in commission, or rather built the first floor of the rocket. Following the hearings in which I wished to involve all the groups, the committee adopted, in Article 1, the merger of the reference increased pensions (ERPs), so as to ensure that all non-farmers benefit from the amount received by the heads of farms. This merger will result in an average monthly gain of 62 euros for spouses and family workers, and 75 euros for the women concerned. This is a step forward that we can only rejoice at. However, I regret – and that is why I abstained from voting in committee – that the amendment tabled by the majority removed the other provisions that I proposed, in particular the neutralisation in the calculation of the amount of the PMR of the dependent spouse supplement, or of the survivor's pension. However, it must be recognised that this upgrading will help to bridge the gap between the pensions of co-workers and family workers and other pensions. Do we have to stay that way? I do not believe so, as the compass that guides us all is that of real equality between all agricultural non-employees, regardless of their status. It is in this sense that I have worked in committee with the Government – in good intelligence, I would say – which justifies the amendments that we have tabled. The first is to apply the RMP increase to all retirees, not just those who will become retirees. It is never too late to recognize the lives of hundreds of thousands of already retired land workers who have suffered from eclipse social protection. The second amendment makes it possible to align the capping ceiling of the PMR, which is a contributory pension, with the amount of the solidarity allowance for the elderly (ASPA), which is a solidarity benefit. By stowing the two amounts, this alignment increases the MRP ceiling by almost 30 euros, allowing both an additional upgrading and an increase in the number of beneficiaries of this minimum contribution. In view of the discussions at the hearing, I also wished to limit in time the benefit of the status of collaborating spouse, not only for the people who integrate this status but also for all the assets concerned. I propose to limit it to five years, as is currently the case for family workers. This will enable spouses to move towards a more protective status of their social rights. It's the second floor of the rocket. However, I still have to express a great disappointment at our debates in committee: Article 2, which provided for an extension to the spouses and family workers of the differential supplement of compulsory supplementary pension points (CDRCO) to the amount of 85% of the SMIC, was rejected when it corresponded to what we had called together of our wishes. I therefore propose the restoration of this article as well as various versions of withdrawal. While I understand that the budget is high, I note, however, that it has been severely reduced by the capping mechanism introduced during our debates last year. That is why I propose that this extension be gradual and follow a path that you should find compatible with the budgetary impact of the measure. I also propose, in the end, to apply this measure initially only to newly retired people at a cost of EUR 14 million, which is even more compatible with your objections to the financial impact. It is also the goal of social justice that drives my requests for reports. As regards the first, I would like to see the amount of the PMR aligned with that of the increased minimum contribution, known as MICO, of the general scheme. This is an increase of EUR 5 per month for the persons concerned, which is not nothing for those receiving the most modest retirement pensions. Mr Secretary of State, are you going to undertake a re-evaluation by decree of the PMR to align it with the amount of the increased MICO, with a goal of equality between the two schemes – general and agricultural? My second request for a report relates to the allocation of free basic or supplementary pension points. Such an allocation, already made in the past, is the surest way to increase the smallest unconditionally unconditional pensions, while avoiding the use of solidarity schemes that are not currently favoured by farmers. Mr Secretary of State, have you given any thought to such a mechanism? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups. – Ms Jeanine Dubie also applauds]] The third and last stage of the rocket is to ensure equal pensions between farmers, co-workers and family workers, in other words equality between all farm workers. As a great poet often told me: "He will be able, through starry nights,/ run the world,/ or console his eyes. - But not give up. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u6	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u7	We are here again in this House to discuss the revalorisation of agricultural retirement pensions, one year to the day after the adoption, with the support of the Government and the majority, of a first bill by President Chassaigne. Indeed, on 18 June 2020, with the same republican momentum, the entire national representation spoke with the same voice in favour of the revalorisation of agricultural pensions in a country where we are all sons, grandsons or great-grandsons of a farmer. Before we get together in this new debate, I think it is essential to recall the extent of the progress made in the meantime. That's a long way to go. Your first bill has completed his parliamentary journey, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u8	To the forceps!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u9	A few weeks ago, by decision of the Prime Minister, the entry into force of the text was put forward from 1 January to 1 November. In concrete terms, 227000 farm managers will benefit from this upgrading, with a minimum pension guarantee of 1035 euros per month. On average, these small pensioners will receive 105 euros more each month. Happy coincidence: the simple decree intended to apply this early revalorisation was published in the Official Journal this morning. For the past year too, Members Nicolas Turquois and Lionel Causse, whom I salute, have done a remarkable work of documentation and proposals on small pensions, in the framework of a report which they submitted to me on 11 May. The road ahead is not limited to agricultural pensions alone. In accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, the solidarity allowance for the elderly has been increased: it has recorded an unprecedented gain of more than 100 euros per month. There is therefore no ambiguity: support for small pensions is a strong concern of this government, of this majority, and no doubt of the whole House. He'll be there till the end. The text we are discussing makes new proposals in this direction. I welcome the quality of the work of the Committee on Social Affairs. I am well aware of his president's commitment to the matter. The Government obviously shares your intention, Mr. President Chassaigne. I know she's being relayed to every bench. However, I believe it is essential to recall three principles which will justify our positions on various articles. I am thinking first of all of the principle of fairness. Of course, we do not ignore the specific nature of the agricultural subject. Nevertheless, as the work of Nicolas Turquois and Lionel Causse clearly demonstrated, the subject of small pensions is not a category. These are primarily the result of discontinuous and undercontributory careers, regardless of status or occupation – this affects 74% of women. I welcome, of course, the progress that has been made in this text for the benefit of farmers, but we should be careful not to forget the other sectors of activity. I have a special thought for our self-employed, artisans and traders, who also receive low pension levels and must not be left behind, as well as for all employees who are part-time and who are synonymous with low pension rights. It is in this sense that I defended before you, last year, a minimum pension guarantee of 85% of the net SMIC for all assets with a full career, regardless of their status.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u10	It's over!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u11	The second principle is that of contributing. In a system of distribution, based on an insurgency logic, the low contributions of certain professions result mechanically in inadequate pensions. To legislate only on pensions at the time of their liquidation risks condemning us to deal only with the consequences of minced careers, while our policy of revalorisation of work and of unprecedented support for employment aims precisely to solve the causes of it. The third principle is accountability. The Government's commitment to protecting jobs and supporting recovery is complete. However, as we know, free rights do not exist, and the financing of the new arrangements cannot be based solely on national solidarity. It is on the basis of these principles that the Government will confirm and amplify the movement initiated by your work in committee, on the basis of the amendments adopted on the proposal of the majority. I will therefore defend an amendment to extend the benefit of the alignment of minimum agricultural pensions to current pensioners. We will propose that we go even further than what has been done in committee by raising the cap on this scheme. On the other hand, despite the quality of your argument, Mr Chassaigne, the restoration, in whole or in part, of Article 2, deleted by the committee, will receive an unfavorable opinion, because that would be a departure from the principles that I have recalled at the moment. Other provisions will also be strengthened, including information on the solidarity allowance for the elderly or the extension of the provisions of Article 3 to current co-workers. Beyond the mechanisms and figures, there are, above all, women and men who will benefit from increased purchasing power and better access to rights at the end of the shuttle. It is these women and men who make us aware of small farm retreats on a daily basis, they were the ones we had the opportunity to meet, as you probably do in your constituencies, during a trip with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture under the sun of Puy-de-Dôme last April, in the presence of André Chassaigne, elected in this department. These women and men can count on the mobilization of the entire Government, under the authority of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, for a dignified and decent pension. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Géraldine Bannier also applauds]] As our debates begin, I turn to René Char's fulgurances, to which I know you are attached, President Chassaigne: "The real sometimes degrades hope. That is why, against all expectations, hope survives. Let us give this hope a new breath together today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u12	In the general debate, Mr Sébastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u13	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm glad to see you again. We hit you so hard during the pension reform... We were afraid you'd get bored with diswork. I am happy to give back to Caesar, to Dédé, what belongs to Dédé: its stubbornness in defence of the pensions of farmers, women farmers and family workers. It allows us to take a new step in our commitment to a dignified retirement for all. The bill we are looking at, which aims to raise the minimum pensions of co-workers and family workers, causes "causing" after a crisis that has left traces in the heads of these farmers. It "causes" to all those who have lived on the earth, to all those who live on it, and who very often fear that they will soon not be able to live on it, because the prices are not sufficiently remunerative and at the age of retirement, the pension will not allow to enjoy the remaining time. In my home, in Normandy, in the farms, in the Orne, in Calvados, in the Eure, in the Manche and in the Seine-Maritime, there is no time to complain about his condition. In these people, Mr. Secretary of State, we don't do alms, we're not "distants," we work on his task, on the earth, because it's her who makes us live every day. We do this with his own – very often, his wife, his husband, his family – not counting his hours or his days. We do it with happiness, with pleasure, with passion, often with love. All too often, we also do so with a status that protects us badly, and sometimes even without any status; That is what we are proposing to correct today. Some worked their entire lives on the farm, either as a spouse or as a family worker, because they knew that without this work, the family farm was not viable. These spouses, these women, these family workers mostly do not receive any wages – or sometimes a salary of misery. Many of our elders, women and caregivers, who have worked in our livestock farms, in our Normandy dairies, for well over forty years, are now receiving a pension of misery, often less than 600 euros per month, as André Chassaigne said. In reality, the retirement pension is around 555 euros, the minimum amount: it is not a worthy recognition for those who help to feed our country. So when the chairman of our group, André Chassaigne, proposed to us to defend this text of equality, dignity and reparation, a year after taking a first step in favour of the exploitation leaders, we replied that it was a priority for the reserved agenda of the group of the Democratic and Republican Left. However, the situation of these thousands of co-workers, caregivers, widowers and widows is not the result of chance. The absence, for many years now, of remunerative prices for a large number of crops and livestock, explains the existence of this pit of misery. There is also the liberalisation of markets, which has, for example, resulted in the abolition of milk quotas, which has hurt me in Normandy. The absence of a proactive policy to reduce wage inequalities, the absence of a law that protects, cares for and regulates often explains the abyss that separates us from what should be done in favour of the women farmers concerned. Our farms of old, human-scale, with reasoned productions and unique know-how, are now competed by XXL farms, which does not allow for proper remuneration for farmers, their families and their spouses. This situation could even worsen with the next CAP – the common agricultural policy: its declining budget will not correct market wanderings to ensure fair prices for our farmers who are still blackmailed by large-scale distribution. I sometimes wonder whether the Bigard Group is not the true minister of agriculture. Think of Lactalis which removes any reference to the origin of products on milk bricks – which causes a real anger from the Normans. These wanderings have a serious impact on the incomes of our farmers, their spouses, caregivers, and so on retirement pensions. With such low incomes, they fail to contribute enough – the issue of contributions is at the heart of the text we are looking at. Yet, for the past five years, while the observation is shared by all agricultural trade union organisations and a broad political consensus is emerging from the right to coco, things are not moving forward even if we show that it is possible to take care of people – I hope that you will have more heart than this morning and that you will erase the reproach of what happened about the AAH, the allowance for disabled adults. How many laws have been discussed here, such as the EGALIM law, the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all? Its third anniversary reminded us of its failure to protect farmers. How many blows have been made to our agricultural know-how and their recognition? I am thinking of the threats on our milk, on our controlled wheat labels of origin and the refusal to recognize production costs as a basis for price construction. How many more blows will be done to our agriculture? This should be an issue for you. A management dialogue with the MSA – Mutuality sociale agricole – is under way, but on the part of this actor, I am told that if things continue in this way, it will no longer be able to ensure proximity to the social protection of our farmers. This management dialogue should be transparent to national representation. Since 2017, there have been few moments in this assembly during which we have been able to discuss laws of progress. You've made yourself the singers of regression laws. Few times since the beginning of the quinquennium have enabled us to improve people's lives, especially the lives of our farmers. Last year, our group made a first step forward in their favour with the adoption of the bill setting 85 % of the SMIC as the minimum amount of farmers' pension for a full career as a farm manager. The revalorisation of agricultural pensions, which will be applied from 1st November next – you have confirmed that the decree was made – will result in a significant gain. It is not an alms, but a fair reward for the work done by those concerned. A door has therefore been opened, and we must now go further. We therefore propose to recognize, as a symbol of this care-giving Republic, the need to upgrade the pensions of co-workers and carers. Of course, this bill does not regulate everything. It will miss everything that the majority will want to remove from it, but it is a first stone to redress the injustice done to farmers, to agricultural pensions, to the situation of these women. As we are not holding at all or nothing, we take what is in the right direction. This bill is a measure of equality, a measure of justice for potentially more than 129,000 pensioners with the status of collaborating spouse, 204000 with the status of family member and 394,000 widows and widowers. In Normandy, at home, the text would benefit nearly 39,000 people, mainly women. When we meet farm pensioners, who have often worked since the earliest age, and we explain to them what this bill would change, we can read in their eyes that, for once, they feel that they are recognized by the Republic. Although the original objective of the text has been cut and nibbled by the Walkers and the Government, the consensus that we have reached will allow an average increase of around 100 euros in monthly pensions for working spouses and caregivers. For those who swim in luxury, calm and voluptuousness, it is not much, but for those who only receive a pension of misery, 100 euros, it is decisive. From our point of view, this progress is certainly only a first step, but it is concrete for them, for all these farmers, from Orne to Puy-de-Dôme. All of them will measure their effectiveness and usefulness. Of course, it will also be necessary to work over the next five years to define a new regime, a new statute, for collaborating spouses who, for the vast majority, do not have sufficient protection. This work must be pushed even further, because we cannot ask our young people to settle down with precarious statutes and promises of unworthy remuneration. Of course, work will have to be done to make this system of agricultural pensions more legible, less complex, fairer and supportive. You have again served us the same verse by explaining that it was too complex, to better sell us the simplification of your coconut point-retirement system, which actually aims to shoot the model by distribution. I will conclude this, Mr Secretary of State: be convinced – I say it straight in your eyes – that this progress calls for others. The issue of artisans and self-employed people should also be addressed. You are free to put it on the Assembly's agenda when you wish, and we will accompany you in this process: the parliamentary calendar is not a valid argument for delaying progress. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] But I also affirm this: if, unfortunately, the President of the Republic, who is going back to the countryside, intended to draw in advance the conclusions of the debate which he artificially orchestrates with the inhabitants and return to his project of reform of the pensions, you will find us on your way alongside the social movement, with the same combativity, the same stubbornness and the same severity as those that animate André Chassaigne to advance the cause of the women farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u14	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u15	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, André Chassaigne, for giving us the opportunity to examine this bill to ensure that the lowest agricultural retirement pensions are revalued. This dossier, which I am defending with many Members present in the Chamber, is of great interest to me. By 2020, the National Assembly had adopted provisions to increase the pensions received by heads of operations to 85% of the SMIC. The increase, which will be effective from 1 November next, will average €105. It is a great step forward for the chiefs of operations, achieved thanks to the work carried out jointly by the deputy Chassaigne, the majority and the Government. Today we are interested in the pensions of persons, mainly women, exercising another status under the scheme of agricultural non-employees, namely family workers and farm workers, whose pensions are much lower than those mentioned above. Among these pensioners, there are 734,000 women. Those who have also worked outside or are receiving a survivor's pension receive an average pension of around 1000 euros – an amount that can be considered correct, albeit low. But for many of them – those who have experienced a life of hard work entirely devoted to agriculture – the average pension amount amounts to 600 euros per month, which is not only below the poverty line, but also to the solidarity allowance for the elderly, formerly known as the minimum old age. I am thinking, for example, of a retired and militant farmer whose testimony will leave no one indifferent: having worked forty-four years as a family worker, then under the status of collaborating spouse and finally a few years as chief operating officer, she receives a pension of 664 euros. The La République en marche group wishes to contribute to a significant revalorisation of the most modest pensions received in the agricultural sector. We are therefore pleased to associate ourselves with the spirit of the bill advocated by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Agriculture is at the heart of our policy. I recall that the Government and the parliamentary majority are constantly working to improve the daily lives of farmers. Recent legislative proposals to regulate access to agricultural land or to protect farmers' remuneration provide for significant progress. The situation of agricultural pensions is discussed in detail in the report that Members Lionel Causse and Nicolas Turquois submitted to the Prime Minister with a view to a comprehensive reform of small pensions. I myself have tabled, with 120 parliamentarians of the majority, a bill on the upgrading of women's careers in agriculture, several of which will be included in this text. The committee agrees with the rapporteur's intention to align the amounts of the two existing supplementary pensions, which currently differ by EUR 143, and has retained this provision provided for in Article 1. Trade unions have been calling for this measure for a long time. It will be done under our mandate. We will go even further by proposing to raise the ceiling for the supplementary reference pension to the level of the ASPA. Because it would not be fair or reasonable to offer the same level of pension to all without taking into account the contributions paid, we have removed in committee the increase originally provided for in section 2: the CDRCO is a pension supplement received by the heads of operations who have spent seventeen and a half years or more. In my view, the best way to guarantee fairness between women farmers and women farmers, as Roger Treneule, president of the National Association of Agricultural Retirees of France (ANRAF), wishes, is to limit in time the use of the least protective statutes. That is why we unanimously chose, in Article 3, to limit the status of collaborating spouse to five years from 1 January 2022. We will propose, through Amendment No 24, to extend this limitation to all assets operating under this status. While we have a duty to correct the most difficult situations by sometimes seeking national solidarity, we also owe our fellow citizens some restraint on public spending. These different measures, as you know, have a cost. I thank the Government for securing its funding. Finally, I would like to thank the farmers who are engaged in farming or farming to produce the healthy food we enjoy every day. I am thinking in particular of retired women farmers who listen to us and whose pensions will increase in 2022 thanks to the measures announced. [[Ms. Monique Limon applauds]] As you will understand, the La République en Marche group supports this text and will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u16	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u17	As Members of Parliament, we are accustomed to having to exercise perseverance and patience in order to obtain, unfortunately for our fellow citizens, only often meagre satisfactions in view of the efforts made. After having seen a terrible example of procedures which should not take place in the House this morning, this afternoon we are confronted with a case of a school of small-step politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u19	On 2 February 2017, just a few months before the presidential election, we debated in this Chamber, at the initiative of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, the urgency to raise the small pensions of retired farmers by raising them from 75% to 85% of the SMIC. This text had been adopted unanimously – I was in it. After several tricks – let's call them so – played by the majority of the time and then by the current government, it took three and a half years for this bill to come back to the Assembly on June 18, 2020. In addition to this deadline, it was necessary to agree on adjustments for the text to be voted on, in particular the postponement of its application until the end of 2021 – we are able to do so – the obligation for the farmers concerned to have applied for all their pension rights, the capping between all pension schemes, etc. That is to say if we are pursuing the policy of small steps for the some 225,000 agricultural pensioners concerned! The latter did not choose the situation in which they found themselves: in their time, the contribution schemes were not what they became, the number of agricultural assets was infinitely higher than its present level, France needed to feed a growing population and the profound upheavals at work in the farms created an immense need for arms. Each, in the families, was involved, without thinking about the contributions. The expression of national solidarity towards these poor pensioners – which is in total contrast to the efforts our society is making for other, more numerous categories of French – should not generate such lengthy and laborious debates: we must move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, you are addressing the other aspect of this flagrant injustice. Even more shocking, it concerns women operators, collaborating spouses and family workers, who do not fall within the scope of the 2020 law. All present here, mostly rural deputies, we have at this moment in mind, and especially in the heart, the example of a grandmother, uncle or cousin whom we see or have seen aging with a pension of 300 or 400 euros a month, at the end of a life of labor and periodicity, under conditions often made difficult by age, wear and tear and addiction. This is simply unbearable, because these people – mostly women, even though men are also involved – who gave everything for the family farm, simply had no other choice: they had to eat the family, take care of the animals and not let a husband, father or brother face a task far too heavy for one person. This reality is not because it is the reality of a small number of discreet people who never ask for anything; we have a duty to find a solution. In the absence of a general reform of pensions, we must do so now. The initial proposal of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left seemed acceptable to us at all. It planned to align the conditions for access to PMR 2, i.e. 699 euros per month, while allowing for the cumulation of various benefits – reversion or increase for children or dependent spouse. The majority wished to delete this additional provision. We want it restored: 700 euros a month, is it a privilege? The text also provides for farmers' women, co-workers and family carers to have access to the same mandatory supplementary pension point differential supplement, so as to enable them to achieve pensions equivalent to 85% of the SMIC from the end of 2021, such as farm managers. This article, you don't want it. We believe that it must be restored. Finally, the draft law provides for a five-year limitation, after 1 July 2022, of the status of collaborating spouse for those who make this choice. It is, of course, desirable if we are gradually to put an end to the problem we are facing. It is clear that we need to be clear about the cost of these measures and their financing, and we need to have assurances that they will be implemented by the MSA. The State will have to provide the latter with the necessary means to do so. During the interrupted debates on the draft law establishing a universal pension system, the Republicans Group made many proposals to improve the situation of retired farmers. We continue to believe that farmers deserve to receive decent pensions, in connection with their efforts, the risks they take and the contributions they pay – but this is another debate, since today we are only trying to find solutions for pensioners. So we'll have to meet again for the rest. With that in mind, Mr. President Chassaigne, you can count on our support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u20	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u21	[[Ms. Géraldine Bannier applauds]] The commitment of our colleague André Chassaigne to agricultural pensions is unanimously recognised in the House. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (MODEM) and related democrats, I would like to welcome him. As a former co-rapporteur of the bill establishing a universal pension system, I pay particular attention to small pensions, particularly those in the agricultural sector, which I am dear to. The weakness of agricultural pensions is not a recent phenomenon. It should be recalled that after the war, the public authorities and representatives of the profession did not want to impose too heavy social burdens on the farmers, who were then actively involved in the reconstruction of the country. In this context, no contribution – therefore no entitlement – was provided for the spouse or children, even if they were involved in the work of the farm. The wife of the head of the farm was long regarded as having no profession: her work on the farm – usually that of her in-laws – extended the work done in the house, without the need to associate with her any professional recognition. Until the 1990s, the weakness of agricultural pensions was real, but was not seen as very different from those received by workers, for example. It was not until 1999 that spouses participating in the work of the farm were granted legal status and finally, in 2011, they could receive a supplementary pension. The situation has changed: the standard of living gap between the agricultural world and the rest of society is increasing and, as far as pensions are concerned, is becoming very significant. Operator spouses are particularly affected by this situation, which may be critical in the event of widowhood or separation. Of course, year after year, there are fewer and fewer women: about 25,000 active and 122,000 retired, 97% of whom are women. Over the course of ten years, the number of women workers has been halved, reflecting a growing lack of interest. Today, when they choose to stay on the farm to work there, women prefer to opt for co-operator status, with greater value in terms of recognition as well as the creation of pension rights. Indeed, with the status of spouse, the women of farmers – because, finally, it is of them that we speak of through the expression "collaborating spouse" – acquire pension rights that have been, and are still, very low, without really knowing it: 650 euros gross per month on average compared to 950 euros per month for men and 750 euros per month for a full career while the average pension of employees under the general scheme is 1310 euros gross per month. I highlighted this injustice and denounced it in the report on the small pensions that my colleague Lionel Causse and I presented to the Government last month. Among the ways in which we can put an end to the precarious situation of retired women in agriculture, we have made a proposal to limit the status of collaborating spouse over time, as is the case today for family caregivers. This is an idea that you are taking back, Mr rapporteur, and we therefore fully agree with your approach. It is no longer acceptable, in a society that advocates equal rights, to maintain indefinitely a status linked to a couple dynamic, with all the risks that result from it. The status of collaborating spouse, which was originally intended to include the wife in agricultural social protection, is now a real trap to small pensions and sometimes even the vector of unsuspecting precariousness in the event of a breakdown or divorce after several years of common life. We also approve the disappearance of the distinction, in the basic pension, between the amounts of PMR 1 and PMR 2, depending on whether you are a farm manager, a spouse or a family caregiver. The PMR is the equivalent of the MICO, the minimum contribution applied in the general scheme, which does not distinguish between the statutes. In addition to the complexity of the calculations, I believe that we must now reason on a life course and, in this case, the approximation or even harmonisation of the various minimum pensions seems to be obvious. Today, you may have been an employee and then a spouse and then a manager and, even if you have followed this course in a different order, or in different proportions, there is no justification for the difference between your minimum pension and the others. Harmonisation from the top is therefore a welcome step forward. On the other hand, we are not in favour of your proposal to open up to spouses and carers the benefit of the supplementary pension supplement without an additional contribution effort being made in parallel. If I understand your ambition, the means to achieve it are not mentioned. Our retirement system, which your party has made a major contribution to building in the aftermath of the war, is based on strong principles of contributoryness and universality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u23	However, the provision of the same rights for persons whose contributory efforts are three times less is in total contradiction with these principles. In our group, we prefer to focus on the occupational situations that lead to the collection of small pensions rather than developing specific, complex mechanisms that derogate from the founding principles of our pension system. Our group is aware of the need to move forward on the issues raised in this text. Its vote will be conditional on the acceptance of the proposals it will make during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u24	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u25	We have had to be so hard hit by a global health crisis to collectively realize what is vital and what is not. Farmers and their work are vital to our society. I will not teach you anything by telling you that they feed us and that we cannot do without them. Under the previous quinquennium, President François Hollande had kept his promise of a minimum pension of 75% of the SMIC. It's a good thing, we're proud of it, but, let's face it, we had to go further. This was done for the first time, for the chiefs of operations, with André Chassaigne's bill passed on July 3, 2020. The logic of this bill was crystal simple: peasants must also be able to feed themselves and live in dignity when the retirement age came. Society owes it to them, at least. The text before us followed the same logic of justice and aimed at the same objective of creating a safety net for agricultural pensions by applying it to all those, very many, who work on farms under the status of non-employee. I say "all" but perhaps I should say "all" because, in more than 56% of cases, they are women, often the spouses of the chief operating officer. For them, the injustice of a less protective status is added to the hardness of agricultural work and to the low income on which they have been able to contribute. I will simply recall the following fact: in 2019, the average annual gross retirement of agricultural non-employees, including the compulsory supplementary pension for those who have contributed, amounts, for a full career, to 9363 euros for this category as a whole and 8877 euros for women. In other words, the average amount of agricultural pensions, especially for co-workers and family workers, is below the poverty line. I repeat, this is about full careers. All this is said in this figure: the pensions of non-employees in the agricultural sector are, in the vast majority, below a simple subsistence threshold. The proposal before us was therefore intended, in short, to ensure a decent minimum subsistence for agricultural workers, beyond the heads of farms alone. It did not question the contributory nature of the system as a whole, which seemed a good thing to us. I am speaking in the past, as you will have noticed, because this text has been profoundly altered in committee, despite common sense, in view of the crisis context I have just mentioned. Everything happens as if, in the end, we had not learned anything. We would have liked to have retained the exclusion of the increases from the method of calculating the supplementary reference pension. Above all, however, we would have liked to see the introduction of a differential supplement of compulsory supplementary pension points, the keystone of the original proposal, retained. I hope that we will be forward-thinking and that the level of our ambition will be sufficient to make this proposal a text of justice, purely and simply. We can then, I hope, adopt it. The original proposal may not be sufficient to eradicate poverty among pensioners in the agricultural sector, especially among women, but it was an essential brick in building a fairer and more comprehensive system. The version submitted to us is simply no longer sufficient. We will therefore remain attentive to the evolution of the debates, because our final decision will depend on their content. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the tenacity and consistency of our colleague André Chassaigne, whose long-term work has already led to significant progress. This new law, after the 2020 law, sought to eliminate blind spots. His approach shows that improvements to the system are still possible, without questioning the overall logic and without normative big bang. I hope we go as far as possible together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u27	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u28	The challenge of the proposal for a law by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which we are discussing, is to ensure a dignified retirement for those who feed us. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the discussion of this text, which aims to remedy a situation which we all agree is the weakness of pensions for non-farm workers. It is in keeping with the law of 3 July 2020, adopted unanimously by this House, which will allow the amount of farmers' pensions to increase to 85% of the SMIC as of November this year. However, the law we passed a year ago does not concern agricultural non-employees, i.e. co-workers and family workers, who are, it should be recalled, the majority of women. While they are engaged in activities similar to those of their spouse on the farm, they experience de facto inequality in the calculation of their retirement pension. It is therefore also an issue of economic equality between women and men. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the adoption in committee of the amendment, jointly defended by the three groups of the majority, which has made it possible to lay the basis for aligning the amount of the pension increased by reference of the collaborating spouses with that of the heads of farms, for the future pensioners but also for the non-employed agricultural workers who are now retired. We will therefore logically vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Government to article 1. In concrete terms, the amount of the basic pension for all agricultural non-employees would then be 696 euros, which would result in an average gain of 62 euros – and even 75 euros for women – of up to 143 euros, depending on the case, for about 175,000 pensioners. The rewriting of article 1 proposed by the Government would also lead to the raising of the threshold of the PMR to the amount of the solidarity allowance for the elderly, i.e. 907 euros. This represents an additional EUR 18 million in support of the retirement of non-farm workers. The merger of PMRs and the raising of the capping threshold at the ASPA level would thus allow the retirement of single-pensioned women to be increased by 98 euros net per month, which is not negligible. Our group is also in favour of Article 3, which provides for a five-year limitation on the duration of the status of collaborating spouse, as is already the case for family assistance, so that persons who wish to continue working on the farm can obtain a more protective status. On the other hand, we have supported in committee the deletion of Article 2, which was intended to extend to working spouses and family workers the benefit of the compulsory supplementary supplementary pension supplement. In our view, this measure introduced a double inequality: first of all between beneficiaries, since the same complement would be attributed to persons who contributed differently, then to the other independents – how can such a mechanism not apply to the collaborating spouses of craftsmen or traders? As in committee, our group will show a constructive spirit and ensure that this text of social justice has a balanced wording. [[Jacqueline Dubois and Géraldine Bannier applaud]] As you will have understood, the Action Together group shares the ambition of your bill – a text of progress – and will vote in favour of it, subject to the adoption of the amendments proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u29	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u30	Secretary of State, I am pleased to see you again because this debate reminds me of a great moment: the consideration of the bill establishing a universal retirement system. To tell you everything – I take the opportunity to be in the gallery to share with you my wishes – I would like that before the end of the legislature, we can, if not complete, at least continue the work that we have begun in this area. I say everything from go, this is an opportunity for me to recall some of the measures for which the centrists, particularly those of the IDU and independent group, have been campaigning for several years: the extinction of special pension schemes, the convergence between the public and the private sector and the introduction of a universal point-based pension scheme. Dear André Chassaigne, you have worked a great deal on the issue of agricultural pensions, particularly during the previous legislature, which has led to the revalorisation of the pensions of farm managers, who deserve a pension of 85% of the SMIC, or about 1000 euros. You then took your pelotus and included in your reflection the situation of the co-workers and the family helpers. That's a good thing. In fact, I say this from the outset: I am here, as a representative of the IDU and independent group, to continue the work we started in committee and to support your bill. I know – experience has shown us, dear André Chassaigne – that, when we are in government, this is never the time to take such measures which, even if they represent progress, cost a little money. We have seen this again this morning with a good proposal for a law on, inter alia, the disabled adult allowance, which has not been successful for financial and other reasons. I can understand that this bill, which would cost 850 million euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u31	A billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u32	... to 1 billion euros if adopted as it is, make the Government reflect since it is responsible for the management of public finances, but from my experience as a citizen, then from that of elected, I have heard for almost forty years many members of the majority or ministers explain to us that this is not the time, that there is no money for the proposed social advances, especially when it comes to helping the weakest of us. There's never any money for that! At the time of the yellow vest crisis, however, we knew how to find the few billions we needed by unblocking them in an emergency, and the health crisis also rightly led the Government to make fiscally difficult decisions to support our country's economic system. And for those farmers who do not have a status commensurate with the efforts made nor an appropriate level of contributions, whether they are heads of farms, co-workers or family workers, this afternoon there is something to correct the situation. I appreciated, Mr Secretary of State, that, in your introductory statement, you were extending the question to all the independents. This was discussed in committee, with the rapporteur André Chassaigne, of course, but also with Nicolas Turquois: artisans and traders also work hard, but the system of solidarity they benefit from is not up to the stakes. In any case, I congratulate the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, in particular André Chassaigne, on his perseverance in this matter. It is all the more necessary to move forward on these issues because the French less and less accept these situations, these small pensions that they live as injustices but also as humiliations, and that the most important in a population is its cohesion. And if there is one question that must be of even greater concern to us today than yesterday, it is indeed the cohesion of the population. Efforts must therefore be made to correct inequalities. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] The UDI and independent group will vote in favour of this bill because, as I said in conclusion of our debates in committee, all the progress, however small, is good for small pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u33	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u34	Last July, our parliament made a major step forward by ensuring that farm managers are able to upgrade their retirement pension to at least 85% of the SMIC for a full career. And, like last year, we owe it to the GDR Group and its chairman, André Chassaigne, to be able to debate again in the Chamber the injustices that affect agricultural pensioners, which I would like to thank them for. Last year's just catch-up was a first step towards greater recognition of agricultural trades; It is now necessary to complete the process by recognizing the work done by collaborating spouses and family workers. There is an urgent need since in 2019 their average pension was 555 euros per month. Like all of us here, I am not satisfied that a working life leads to a minimum retirement, below the poverty line. The first victims, it has been recalled, are women: still today, they suffer from a situation inherited from the beginning of the twentieth century, when their work was not recognized as such and only considered that they eventually helped their husbands. Despite changes in their status, the active role they play on farms still does not give rise to a satisfactory level of retirement; It is even lower than that of farmers. The bill we are considering at the beginning of the afternoon is an excellent opportunity to correct this situation, as it is a first step in reducing pension inequalities and increasing the level of the lowest agricultural pensions, using three complementary levers. First, Article 1 lays the foundations for a fairer system by establishing a form of equity between agricultural non-employees. I am pleased that a compromise has been reached on this article: the amendments that we are going to consider will finally bring the higher-referenced pension of the spouses and the family helpers into line with that of the heads of the farm. The RMP will therefore have a single amount and will increase for the former from EUR 555 to EUR 699. In addition, these amendments provide for an increase in the threshold of the PMR to the amount of the solidarity allowance for the elderly for a single person, which will guarantee an increase of EUR 30 in the amount of this ceiling, thus increasing to EUR 906. I believe, however, that this is only a first step, since the original Article 1 was intended to bring about convergence between the reference supplementary pension and the minimum contribution of the general scheme. I believe that this horizon should not be lost sight of, especially since the committee has chosen to delete Article 2, which provided for the opening of the differential supplement of compulsory supplementary pension points to co-workers and family workers. The Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for the amendments to re-establish this Article, if necessary in order to raise the minimum pension to 85% of the SMIC, as for farm managers. I understand the reluctance of the majority and the Government to this provision, particularly because of its cost to our public finances, but, as the rapporteur, André Chassaigne, said, this cost has already been reduced by half because of the cut-off introduced in order to avoid taking into account pensions paid by other schemes. And then, in any case, we cannot live up to it if we only reason in terms of financial considerations when it comes to the retirement pensions of farmers, who are among the weakest in our country. It seems to me that an alternative solution is possible and preferable to a pure and simple deletion of Article 2. On the other hand, I welcome the new Article 1a, which obliges the pension fund to inform pensioners who may have recourse to ASPA, but I stress the importance of also informing farmers about developments in inheritance law and of harmonizing rules in all departments. Finally, the third lever, provided for in Article 3, is to limit the duration of the status of collaborating spouse to five years, as is the case for family workers. This development is welcome because it will help to prevent those affected, most often women, from working under a less protective status due to lower contributions. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups]] In general, a broader reflection on the upgrading of the status of collaborating spouse or family helper should be undertaken in order to better recognize their work. A reflection which goes beyond the agricultural sector will also be necessary because, as we know, the question of small pensions is not specific to the latter. Until then, we have the opportunity today to make a first step forward for non-farm workers. Our group will obviously support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u35	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u36	First of all, I would like to thank André Chassaigne for his persistent involvement for many years in improving the living conditions of farmers, in particular for the progress made in their retirement. We were surprised to see that similar legislative proposals were not finally supported by the majority – I am thinking of Mrs Jacqueline Dubois' proposal on the upgrading of women's careers in agriculture, the content of which was not taken up by her group's colleagues during the debates in committee. When we talk about the need to raise farmers' pensions and incomes, it is not enough to shake their heads: we must vote for any progress in this direction, especially if it is the same as the solution proposed by a majority member who has worked on the subject. Otherwise it is incomprehensible, or rather it means that the proposals you make, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are only posterism or clientelism. I would like to point out that Mrs Dubois, like Mr Chassaigne, is asking for the rate of the pension plus reference pension of the co-workers and the family carers to be aligned with that of the farm managers: this is the minimum for those who remain the poor parents of the agricultural pension system. Our two colleagues also agree on the need to align the indexation of the higher reference pensions with that of the minimum contributions and on the raising of the ceiling limiting the payment of the higher reference pension to the same level as the solidarity allowance for the elderly. Given the level of certain pensions in all sectors, it is absolutely urgent to take action, especially to correct the situation faced by women: 74% of them receive a pension of less than 1000 euros per year and the difference in the amount of pensions between women and men is 41%. As the economic system is built, it inflicts a double penalty on farmers: a low income throughout their lives, which means little contributions and therefore a low pension level. Comrade André Chassaigne has already brought his stone to the building, with his bill raising the minimum level of pensions to 85% of the SMIC for the chiefs of operations having been passed last year. Today, he proposes to go further, which is really necessary. There is an urgent need to improve the material living conditions of women, whether they are co-workers or family caregivers, by redefining their status and harmonizing the rules for calculating the amount of their retirement. We are also in favour of limiting the status of co-operating spouse to five years, then moving towards the status of co-operator or manager. This will force it to contribute more, but this is how we can obtain greater social security coverage. Finally, we are in favour of extending access to the differential supplement of compulsory supplementary pension points. Because of the complexity and technicality of the non-employee system and its various floors, the pensions of the persons concerned – especially women who were not paid when working in the agricultural structure – are indeed very low. Another issue that I think is important to address at a later stage is that of the MSA. For example, in the case of daily allowances, where a farmer is injured, for example, the daily income after three days of default is EUR 21.47 from day four to day 28 and EUR 28.63 from day twenty-ninth, insufficient financial compensation to hire a replacement. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an opportunity to improve things: the intentions shown must therefore be translated into practice in this text. The progress made in committee is not sufficient; I hope that today it will be possible to improve the situation of agricultural pensioners by returning to the original text, in particular by restoring Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u37	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u38	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u39	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor to support Amendment No 15, which introduces an additional Rule before Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u40	This amendment amends the wording of Title 1 of the draft law in order to bring it into line with the wording adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u41	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u42	Favourable. Of course, in my personal capacity, I objected to the rewriting of Article 1, which was emptied of part of its content. But the title of Title I must be adapted accordingly. This is, in a way, an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u43	On the identical amendments Nos 5, 8 and 18, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u44	Like many of us, I wanted to be there to take this small step, albeit a modest but concrete and precise step forward. On 18 June last year, we had already made progress with regard to the heads of operations, ensuring that their pensions were at least 85% of the SMIC. But we did not forget the co-workers – who are essentially spouses – and the family workers, still many. The ideal would have been to bring their pensions also to 85% of the SMIC. This will not be the case, but the revalorisation that we will proceed with will be the equivalent of 100 euros; For a little retreat, it's important. This small step was necessary. It does not prevent, I always have in mind the reflection of a lady in my constituency, a partner of a chief operating officer; She worked alongside her while raising her five children. She explained to me that the latter, whatever the profession they are doing today, pay the retirement of others, and that the contributions they pay are much higher than the pension they receive, while they have raised them; is that correct? Even though we are making progress – as our group is happy to see – the process is not complete and the road ahead is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u45	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 5, 8 and 18. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u46	Article 1, as adopted by the Committee, aligns the amount of the pension increased by reference of the spouses and the family helpers with that of the heads of farm, i.e. an increase of up to EUR 150 per month. However, in its current wording, it applies only to new pensioners and therefore does not allow the pensions currently granted to former co-workers and family workers to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u48	This amendment therefore provides for the extension of the RMP to current pensioners as well. The Government also wishes to strengthen this measure by aligning the threshold of any PMR regime with the amount of ASPA, for pensioners today and tomorrow, as proposed by Jacqueline Dubois and his colleagues in their bill. Some 17,500 additional retirees will benefit from the PMR. Finally, the Government proposes to increase the amount of the PMR to the level of the MICO plus, i.e. to 705 euros. This increase will be achieved by regulation. In total, more than 210,000 pensioners, 67 per cent of whom are women, will benefit from this set of measures. These women will see their pension increase significantly, on average by EUR 100 for former spouses and family workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u49	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u50	After the committee's deletion of Article 2, I felt that the progress of the bill was insufficient. We have therefore worked with the Government to remedy this situation. We explored several directions. First, we wanted to combine what is called stock and flow, so that everyone could benefit from the merger of PMR1 and PMR2. This represents an average increase of 62 euros, but the amount may be much higher for women. Secondly, we have taken up the proposal by Jacqueline Dubois to align the capping ceiling of the PMR with the amount of the ASPA, which will allow an increase of 30 euros in this ceiling. Compared to the text adopted by the committee, this will lead to an increase in most pensions, while extending the scope of beneficiaries. The same amendments are the result of this collective work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u51	I call Mrs Jacqueline Dubois to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u52	It tends to fix a single amount of PMR regardless of the status of the non-employed agricultural insured person. The amount received by working spouses and family workers, which now amounts to EUR 555.50, will thus be aligned with that of heads of operations, i.e. EUR 699.07. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for all farm pensioners, the value of the increased pension will be calculated on the basis of the amount of the PMR1 of 2022. Today, for many of these pensioners, the premium is calculated on the value of the 2009 PMR2 – the year it was created – that is, 503 euros. Since the PMR is raised to EUR 705, the calculation will be EUR 200 more, which is significant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u53	As I do not need to ask for the opinions of the rapporteur and the Government on identical amendments tabled by both sides, I propose that you open the debate directly. Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u54	I would really like to welcome this proposal. The subject is very technical – in fact, reading them, the amendments do not seem very sexy, if you pass the phrase. However, the "small step" mentioned by some will make it possible to pay an average of 100 euros. This represents between 15% and 20% increase; I wish all the small steps were of the same order! The amount of the PMR will thus be aligned with that of the increased MICO. In other words, whether you are a farmer or an employee under the general scheme, the mechanisms will be almost similar, with a few small differences. I note that Mr. Le Fur, in his argument, has been the best advocate for the single pension plan. Indeed, farmers' children, if not covered by the agricultural scheme, can finance higher pensions than their parents' contributions. This is the reality of today's life: one is no longer, as in the past, a farmer from generation to generation. In fact, one is not even necessarily a farmer all his life: some people start a second career in agriculture, and conversely, some farmers change their jobs over the course of their lives and become wage earners. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] Not only will this initiative lead to an increase of EUR 100 in the amount of small pensions, but it will allow the minimum amounts to be harmonised, regardless of the occupation. I therefore thank the rapporteur, as well as the Government, for this major step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u55	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u56	Of course, we agree with this proposal and we will vote for these amendments to rewrite Article 1. I would point out that, in speaking of small steps, I was referring mainly to the length of time it took Parliament to deal with the problem. Unfortunately, many retirees will not benefit from this increase; For them, it's too late. I say again: we really need to put an end to these injustices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u57	The measure also applies to current pensioners!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u58	I know we take stock into account, but by waiting, some are no longer in this world,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u59	No, they're gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...and they were the ones who suffered the most. Mr Turquois, you know the agricultural world well enough to know that what I am saying is true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u61	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor. Secondly, we shall return to strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u62	Isn't that one speaker per group? I welcome the results achieved. At the end of the examination in committee, I indicated that progress, however small, is always good to take. I thank the rapporteur and the Government for working together because, as Nicolas Turquois says, 100 euros is not nothing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I do not want to be teasing or in bad faith towards our colleagues in the group. The Republicans, but 15 years ago, I was already a member of Parliament. Why wasn't the subject dealt with at that time? Or under François Hollande's mandate?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u63	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u64	It must be reasonable: when I came to the House in 2007, small pensions were already a reality. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LaREM groups]] Madam Minister, I would like to refer to the case of the spouses of artisans and traders and, more broadly, the self-employed. Before the end of the legislature, I would like to see quick work by the Government or a parliamentary initiative supported by the executive allow us to move forward on the subject; Really, it's important to them. As Nicolas Turquois says, at this level of small pensions, 100 or 150 euros more, it is enormous; It's unfortunate, but that's how it is. In any event, I salute the artisans for the progress that has been proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u65	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike what happened this morning, I feel that there is a good atmosphere in the Chamber. I would therefore like to say this amicably: the multiplication of interventions would complicate the life of the GDR Group, which could not therefore complete the examination of the texts on its reserved agenda. We will therefore stick to the Rules of Procedure and limit the number of interventions after the amendments have been tabled to two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u67	Thank you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u68	The president is familiar with the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u69	This provision has at least the merit of protecting the GDR group... I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 5, 8 and 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u70	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 120 Number of votes cast 120 Absolute majority 61 For adoption 119 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u71	Who voted against it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u72	There's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u73	[[Smile]] It's not up to me to judge. If someone has made a mistake, they can request the publication of a development. However, if it is Mrs Lasserre, I will not fail to make it known in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u74	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 7, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u75	It is simply a question of creating a title Ia to take account of the adoption in committee of an amendment by Jacqueline Dubois which provides for the transmission of information on ASPA to pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u76	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 6, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u77	The Government agrees, it is necessary to promote the use of ASPA by strengthening the information of the pensioners concerned. We therefore agree with the objective of the Committee on Social Affairs, which adopted the amendment by Jacqueline Dubois which gave rise to this Article 1a. This is also advocated by Nicolas Turquois and Lionel Causse in the report submitted last May. However, the current wording of Article 1e r bis does not seem to me to be proportionate. Annual information of potentially eligible persons would be particularly burdensome to implement by pension funds, without necessarily being targeted or relevant to insured persons receiving the information each year. Accordingly, the Government proposes by this amendment information to the insured persons, through the pension funds, in the year preceding their eligibility for ASPA, and not only, as at present, at the time of the liquidation of their retirement. This time lag appears to be one of the main factors in the non-use of the allowance. This obligation, enshrined in the law, will also be compatible with targeted actions and defined according to the context of each insured by the pension funds, actions that are already being carried out today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u78	I call Mrs Jacqueline Dubois to support sub-amendment No 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u79	This is an appeal sub-amendment, which proposes that specific information on ASPA should also be sent to persons receiving the Personalised Autonomy Allowance (PAA) when the latter is granted. In fact, people who may benefit from ASPA may not apply because they do not feel the need at age 65. But at the age of 81 or 85, when they begin to find it difficult to remain autonomous, they could use it. We would therefore like the caisses to intervene at the time of granting the APA to assist the beneficiaries in this process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u80	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u81	I agree with the amendment as drafted by the Government. In fact, we had exchanged views on this point. The committee delivered an opinion in favour of Mrs Dubois' sub-amendment; For my part – I say it quietly – I am unfavorable. Indeed, it would impose an obligation to inform about the ASPA when granting the APA; This is a matter for the departments. This provision, which represents a form of intrusion into the responsibilities of the departmental community, could create a problem in the Senate, jeopardizing the vote that I wish to comply with and delaying the implementation of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u82	Very good thinking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u83	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u84	The Government supports the need to promote the use of ASPA by strengthening the information of the pensioners concerned. However, information specifically targeted at ABS recipients raises significant practical difficulties. Indeed, as President Chassaigne has just said, the APA is an allowance provided by the departmental councils, potentially from the age of 60, before the legal age of common law. Pension funds serving the ASPA do not have access to the list of APA beneficiaries, and such an exchange of information would be difficult to ensure. However, your sub-amendment makes it possible to draw attention to the importance of providing information on ASPA also after the minimum age to benefit from this aid, i.e. 65 years, in order to take into account the various hazards of life. I agree with your concern and will ask the major basic pension plans to work on targeted information mechanisms when they are aware of a significant change in the situation of a pensioner, for example as part of the social action schemes deployed by these schemes. However, these actions must be developed and implemented in a flexible manner and do not fall within the scope of the law. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u85	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u86	I hear your arguments. My intention was to draw the attention of all, departments as pension funds, to this difficulty. I withdraw the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u87	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u88	I have before me five amendments, Nos 3, 10, 4, 12 and 11, to re-establish Article 2 and which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 3 and 10 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 4 and 12. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u89	[[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] It is intended to restore Article 2, which, deleted in committee, provided for the extension of the compulsory supplementary pension supplement to employed spouses and family workers on farms. This benefit is intended to compensate for the difference between the annual amount of a pension including basic and compulsory supplementary retirement, and a floor amount equivalent to 85% of the annual SMIC, with reference to the law of 3 July 2020. The extension of this article complements the revalorisation of the modest agricultural pensions of working spouses – which, as has been pointed out on many occasions, are 85% of women – and family workers, in the interests of social justice and recognition of their work on farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u90	The rapporteur's amendment No 10 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u91	He was very well defended by Mr. Dufrègne!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u92	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u93	This is a fallback amendment, which aims to allow non-farmers, i.e. co-workers and family workers, who do not meet the conditions comparable to those of farmers, to benefit from a gradual increase in the differential supplement. By leaving sufficient time for the technical deployment of the measure, the amendment allows all agricultural non-employees to eventually receive a minimum pension amount of 85% of the SMIC, after progressive thresholds of 75% and 80%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u94	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u95	The only thing I have to add to Jean-Paul Dufrègne's presentation is that the amendment is the result of the hearings we conducted. Our discussions with the various agricultural trade unions and with the National Association of Agricultural Retirees of France show that this target of 85%, enshrined in the draft law, seems to them to be unavoidable. That is why, as Article 2 has been deleted in committee, I have proposed a staggering procedure. The bill will bring real progress, which I will never deny. What may be missing, I think I said in committee, is this 85% threshold, the star to which our plough hangs, a dated goal that gives agricultural pensioners the hope of achieving, one day, a true parity between agricultural non-employees – co-workers or family workers – and farm managers. That is the objective of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u96	You have the floor again, Mr rapporteur, to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u97	It's the fallback! As the financial burden is the most common objection, I propose with this amendment that the measure of progress – the parity between heads of operations and co-workers and family workers – only comes into force for new pensioners, who retire from the vote on the bill. Expenditure in the first year would be limited to EUR 14 million and could prove to be decreasing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u98	What is the Government's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u99	They aim to gradually extend access to the compulsory supplementary supplementary pension supplement to working spouses and family workers. Several solutions are proposed: the re-establishment of Article 2, with Amendments Nos 3 and 10; the gradual increase of the differential supplement, with Amendments Nos 4 and 12; the opening of the differential supplement only to future pensioners, with Amendment No 11 which President Chassaigne has just introduced. Whatever the wording, the Government was against such a proposal, for at least three reasons. First of all, the pension guarantee is now reserved for farmers because it reflects the higher contributory effort of the insured compared to that of the other members of the non-employed agricultural scheme. This was recalled during the examination of the text in committee, which resulted in the deletion of this provision. The problem of small pensions can first be addressed through work and contribution payments. Secondly, the question of small pensions is not a categorical one: it is found in all schemes, the report by Nicolas Turquois and Lionel Causse clearly demonstrated this. Therefore, a minimum pension objective can only be part of a universal logic. Let us be careful not to feed a feeling of inequity, especially in view of the situation of retired artisans and traders! Finally, whatever the extent, this provision is not funded. However, as we all know, there are never free rights; At the end, it is always national solidarity or another profession that finds itself financing the cost of it. However, the Government was determined to continue its efforts in favour of small pensions. That is why we have just supported the alignment of the amount of the higher pensions referred to, which makes it possible to standardise the basic minimum pensions for the non-employed agricultural workers' scheme. That is also why the Government is in favour of raising the ceiling for any PMR scheme to the minimum old age level for all pensioners, including those already retired, as your Assembly has just voted in Article 1. The Government was therefore opposed to all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u100	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u101	I know that it is part of the political game, for oppositions, to propose sweetness in the face of a Government and a majority who must be responsible. But we are all committed to the continuity of the Republic, whose great principles we must preserve for those who succeed us. However, as far as the pension system is concerned, there is a great deal of this, namely the contribution and proportionality of each individual's effort. That people who have contributed unevenly benefit from the same amount of retirement – because that is what your amendment proposes – undoubtedly raises a question. This calls into question the organization of the system itself, and that is not acceptable. You say, Mr rapporteur, that all trade union organisations were in favour of the 85 % threshold. Of course, everyone is in favour of an increase; But have there been plans, in return, to increase the contribution effort? I am less sure that there is unanimity on this point! I am firmly against these amendments, which seriously undermine the very principles of our pension system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u102	And you say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u103	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u104	I think this is a very important moment. You say that this is an opposition game, but the opposition, since this morning, does not play at all; She talks about dignity and respect. We would have wanted it to be heard this morning about people with disabilities, and now about people who have contributed their entire lives,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u105	That's right, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u106	[[Minister makes a sign of protest]] ... next to their spouses or in other circumstances. At the time of retirement, they should also be considered. I would have liked to see no amendments proposed, but I understand the concern of the rapporteur, whom I would like to thank once again to extend a hand to the Government, which once again refuses it and remains blocked in its position. But if, Madam Minister, don't shake your head!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u107	No, really!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u108	Even though we were pleased with the progress achieved in Article 1, and I thank you for that, it is really a pity that you are not going beyond it, and that you are unable to hear our requests. The rapporteur has not produced this whole proposal; It is the fruit of the auditions. I sincerely thank him for this umpteenth attempt to move towards greater social equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u109	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u110	During this parliamentary term, I and other Members – I am thinking in particular of Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, who is not present today – have been constantly reminded of the importance of the progress achieved on the subject of agricultural pensions: multiple written questions, amendments on social security financing bills, interventions during the debates on pension reform. The law aimed at ensuring the revalorisation of agricultural retirement pensions in mainland France and overseas, known as the Chassaigne law, has allocated an additional 100 euros per month to farm managers, a fair and deserved measure for people who devote their lives to feeding others, who do not count their hours and who work every day, in spite of the difficulties, in all the times. We forgot the spouses, the women. So I have a thought for Marie-Paule, Simone, Jacqueline, Claudine and Michèle, all those women I know, and for those I know less, but I don't forget, whose life was clearly not easy. For all these women, it was a matter of trafficking, feeding the animals, preparing meals for a regiment during harvest and silage periods, but also of accounting and, in the midst of all this, raising the children, without the support of a kindergarten assistant. Rest periods were rare. Vacations? A very often exotic word. And when these women complained about their meagre retirement for this life of work – because it happened that they complained about it – unscrupulous administrative agents had the outcry to tell them that they had had the chance to raise their children. What a ignorance of what has made the lives of these families immersed in work, sometimes until exhaustion! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LT, Activité ens and IDU-I groups]] On behalf of all these women, I thank André Chassaigne for this new bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u111	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 20, 23 and 24, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 28. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u112	The Government shares the desire to limit the status of collaborating spouse over time. While this status, which was established in 1999, has enabled women heads of operations to strengthen their social protection rights, it is found in practice to penalize pension rights for insured persons who pursue their entire career under this status. This is shared by all political groups and by all professional agricultural organisations. That is why this amendment seeks to amend Article 3 in order to extend the limitation to persons having the status of collaborating spouse before 1 January 2022 and to strengthen the scope of the provision adopted by the committee by reflecting this political will in the shorter term. The same warning period will therefore apply to all persons under this status yesterday, today and tomorrow. If I believe the various amendments tabled on Article 3, this will is widely shared.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u113	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u114	This amendment aims to avoid the trap to small pensions and proposes that a co-employed spouse opts within five years, from 1 January 2022, for a more protective status, in accordance with the original text. In reality, we see that this situation often occurs: when her older husband retires, her wife, who has not yet reached retirement age, becomes head of operations; and when this farmer was associated with his son or daughter in a joint farming group (GAEC), then the mother takes her place in the group. In practice, therefore, it is relatively common for co-workers to abandon this status. However, in the original bill, we did not envisage taking into account the co-workers already in operation: we had limited ourselves to those who would enter into operation on 1 January 2022. All the trade union organisations that we have interviewed have insisted on the need to leave this status and to show political will in this area, so that the text concerns not only those who will be in operation from 1 January 2022, but also those who, for several years, will also have to choose, within a period of five years, a more protective status. That is the meaning of this amendment, on which we have reached agreement with the Government. With this measure, the problem of small agricultural pensions needs to be addressed. This has been said and reiterated: we cannot rely solely on national solidarity, even if it is indispensable; We must also take strong measures to combat unfavourable pension status.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u115	I call Mrs Jacqueline Dubois to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u116	Like the previous amendments, this amendment was tabled on the initiative of the Republic on the move. I would also like to thank all the Members of the majority who have worked with me this winter to prepare the bill on the upgrading of women's careers in agriculture, four of which are part of the text we are considering and I hope will be adopted in a few minutes. This amendment incorporates one of these provisions and has been proposed by a number of agricultural trade unions, including pensioners. Let's make it clear: retirees regret that they were not offered before they made more contributions. The only way to restore equity among all pensioners is to put an end to precarious or unprotective statutes. I am therefore pleased that this amendment limits the status of collaborating spouse to five years. This status can be useful for a few years, but in no way an entire career.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u118	I call Mr Turquois to support sub-amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u119	As I can tell you, the approach proposed by these amendments makes me doubt. In the debate on the bill establishing a universal pension system, however, I had proposed a similar provision. Not only is the status of co-workers a small retirement trap, but at a time when there is concern about equality between men and women, it refers to the image of women farmers who cannot be satisfied. However, while it seemed to me essential to limit this status for future spouses, because it confers very low pension rights, the question seems less obvious to me for women who are already, and for some, for a long time. The average age of collaborating spouses is now 53 years. Women who have been working for twenty-five or thirty years will therefore be 58 years in five years and they will be told that they must abandon this status in order to take on the status of wage earner – but not all farms will be able to afford it – or the status of farm manager – which may not be possible either, since a farm operator's wife is not always younger than her husband. I have specific examples in mind. By forcing women farmers aged 58 or 59 to settle down in five years' time, they could simply be deprived of status. That is why I propose, by this amendment, that those born before 1970 – who will be at least 57 years of age five years after 2022 – should not be affected by this provision. If they wish to benefit from it, they will of course have the opportunity, but we must respect the choice of life they have made, even if we consider it dangerous for them. In any case, we cannot impose such a change on them so close to retirement. I therefore propose that the provision be limited to the youngest persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u120	What is the committee's opinion on this sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u121	During the committee's work, I shared the position of Nicolas Turquois, to the point that I tabled an amendment which was in line with his sub-amendment and which I subsequently withdrew. I live in rural areas, surrounded by farmers, and I know people for whom this measure will have negative effects – we all know them. However, I believe it is necessary to include a specific date in the text and to show voluntarism. It would not be a service to these people to leave them locked in the status of collaborating spouse. The provision may seem to be a directive, but it is, in my view, indispensable. The sub-amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but I am against it in my personal capacity, although I understand its intention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u122	It's not clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u123	What is the Government's opinion on the amendments and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u124	The Government obviously shares the concern to secure the career paths of the collaborating spouses. However, the five-year period provided for in the draft law seems sufficient to secure the situation of insured persons close to retirement. I would also point out that the average age of co-workers is 57 years in 2020, as Mr Chassaigne's report has shown. I am convinced that this precarious status, which does not provide sufficient social protection and which has become a small pension trap, should not be further perpetuated. The Government's intention was to limit the use of that status. I invite you to withdraw the sub-amendment, Mr Turquois; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u125	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u126	With this amendment, it is a matter of asking the Government to submit a report on the re-evaluation of the small pensions of the self-employed, the artisans and traders in particular, and in particular of their spouses – I come back to it, Madam Minister! Our Mayenne colleague, Géraldine Bannier, quoted the names of the women farmers who are dear to her heart. For my part, I am thinking of several craftsmen and traders of my knowledge, and of a neighbour, Geneviève, who has been talking to me about small retreats for many years. She will know that one day, in the Chamber, I thought of her – and all the others! – by raising this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u128	The committee has delivered a favourable opinion on this amendment, the debate having focused on its redrafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u130	[[Minister shows the document to Mr Thierry Benoit]] The report by Members Lionel Causse and Nicolas Turquois, which you have undoubtedly consulted, already provides a very precise overview of small pensions and offers many avenues for solutions. It also specifically addresses the situation of the self-employed. In general, one of the main lessons of this report is that the issue of small pensions is not a category but a comprehensive one. Small pensions continue to be the result of low-contributory careers and, consequently, low pension entitlements. However, as the causes are global, the answers must be just as comprehensive. A specific report on the self-employed therefore does not seem necessary. I would add that the spouses of the self-employed are in a situation different from that of the spouses of the farmers and already enjoy a protective social status, in particular with regard to old-age insurance, since they can choose between the status of a working spouse, an employed spouse and an associated spouse. In the light of the information I have provided, I propose that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u131	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u132	I agree, because I made a small mistake: in fact, the committee had rejected Mr Benoit's amendment, which I personally support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u133	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u134	[[Minister shows Member of Parliament report again]] I would like to respond in order to avoid being derogatory to the Minister and to Mr Turquois. I agree with you, minister, that the issue of small pensions is not a categorical one. However, it is well known that in the contemporary history of pensions, farmers, self-employed, artisans, traders and other professions such as home helpers have seen their pensions decline. I would like to take into consideration the report that you are referring to, but provided that, quickly, in the coming weeks, the Government or the deputies of the parliamentary majority – as they have the support of the Government – make a proposal to upgrade these pensions as soon as possible. If that is the Minister's answer, I withdraw my request for a report. But since a few questions remain, I will keep it as a precaution. I assure you that when you receive a pension of 350 euros a month in 2021, the account is not there. You will have to publish reports every week, but that is not what will make it possible to provide concrete answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u135	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u136	It is a request for a report that seeks to challenge the Government and the Minister, in so far as I could not, under Article 40 of the Constitution, submit an amendment whose adoption would have allowed the reference increased pension, now unified, to be aligned with the increased MICO. Such alignment would, however, allow for a further increase in the pensions we are discussing, which would amount to about EUR 5 per month, and even a little more – I think its amount would be up to EUR 6.30. This can only be done by regulation, and the Minister has already responded in advance to my request for a report; It would be good if she could express herself, perhaps in order to make commitments that could further increase the increases already achieved through the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u137	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u138	I confirm that the Government is in favour of raising the amount of the PMR to MICO plus, both to support the pensions of our farmers, whatever their status, but also to make the system more readable. This will result in an increase of about €6 per month, which will be implemented by regulation and will be in addition to the other measures already provided for in the draft law at the time of its entry into force. As the Government undertakes to implement by decree this increase in the PMR in the amount of the MICO increased, I suggest you, Mr. President Chassaigne, to withdraw your request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u139	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u140	In view of your very precise answer, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u141	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u142	It is much less consensual than the previous one. For the same reasons as those mentioned at the moment, it was not possible to request by way of an amendment the allocation of additional points to revalue small agricultural pensions. I am therefore asking for a report on this subject, especially since granting "free" points has already been made in the past, in particular for the benefit of managers. The amendment has of course received an unfavorable opinion from the committee, but you will understand that, personally, since I am the author of it, I am issuing a favourable opinion – that is the least of the things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u143	It is indeed a matter of consistency. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u144	I confirm that this amendment is less consensual. You propose that the Government submit to Parliament a report on the upgrading of small agricultural pensions by allocating additional points in addition to the basic or supplementary pension. As I have already had the opportunity to indicate, there are no "free" points; All are financed by professional or national solidarity. That is why this track was not considered by your colleagues Lionel Causse and Nicolas Turquois, whom the Prime Minister had sent on the subject of modest pensions. If an adjustment is to take place, it will involve the improvement of the pension minimums of the scheme, in relation to the length of the insured person's career and the contribution effort made. Such a measure was the subject of a law passed last year in this House and received the Government's favourable opinion in Article 1, which aims to harmonize the minimum basic specific pension by extending it to non-farmers with the full rate. The Government is therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u145	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the groups La République en marche, Les Républicaines and that of the Democratic and Republican Left of France, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u146	The minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 14, which seeks to delete Rule 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u147	It aims to raise the pledge contained in the bill, in accordance with article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u149	[[Exclaims on various benches]] If the GDR Group so wishes, explanations of vote may be given. Do you want it, Mr. Chassaigne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u150	Oh, no! Everyone's for the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u151	Yes, we wish!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u152	We therefore come to the explanations of vote. Everyone will understand the elegance that there would be to intervene, any regulatory considerations aside, in less than five minutes per group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u153	[[Smile]] Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor, and for once he will set an example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u154	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] I will set the wrong example, but I am sure that the colleagues who will then act will follow your instructions. Almost a year ago to the day, I was already in front of you, subject to the same exercise, as we were looking at my colleague André Chassaigne's bill on the revalorisation of agricultural retirement pensions. Adopted unanimously after a long parliamentary shuttle – this has been recalled –, it was the result of our group president's unwavering investment and a close work with the actors in the agricultural world. If the text voted last year represents a real step forward and a step in the right direction, we could not settle for it. Of course, this first bill has allowed for progress for more than 200,000 pensioners whose minimum retirement will rise to 85% of the SMIC in November 2021, compared to 75% currently. However, many and many remain on the tile. I am thinking of all these women, because they are the majority in this case, who have worked their whole lives alongside their husbands farmers and yet are called "without a profession", receiving a pension of misery. These women raised calves and poultry; they have milked, made cheeses or participated in the sale of their labour products on the markets. Let us add the work of a parent, which often comes back to these workers of the shadows. Their problem is not solved: these women, these sisters, these mothers still receive a pension between 300 and 500 euros a month, that is, a misery. Last year's text was the first gear. This time, we have imagined a proposal which our President has detailed in his speech and which finally allows an increase of about 100 euros per month. It is little, of course, but we are not followers of the "all or nothing. " Our Article 2 facilitated the allocation of free compulsory supplementary pension points; You deleted it. Sections 4 and 5, which provided for an additional tax of 0.1% on financial transactions tax to finance the BCR, suffered the same fate. Article 3, which we have just examined, has been retained and I welcome it; It aims to limit access to the status of collaborating spouse to five years, based on the family support status model, in order to avoid the small pension traps we have mentioned. Of course, we would have preferred the text of our colleague André Chassaigne to be adopted in its first version, which was not amended by the committee; Today we have tried to restore it, without success. But every euro counts to raise agricultural pensions for the most vulnerable! If we have not totally won this fight, we welcome the fact that we have been able to shed light on all these forgotten spouses, all those women of the shadows who inspire us every day and encourage us to always fight a little more for them. This is a battle for those beating women who have worked their entire lives; We will continue to lead it. Before concluding, I would like to thank all the participants in the rich debates that resulted from the drafting of this law. If the turn of events is not the one we would have liked, it remains a step forward and we welcome it. I know that all of you are committed to providing these women with a dignified situation, commensurate with the work they do. For all these reasons, the GDR Group will, of course, be voting for the proposal for a law by its President, André Chassaigne, for whom I would like to pay personal tribute to the tireless struggle for our farmers, their spouses and spouses, and for all those who find their voice through him, whether they are active or retired. I know that we will vote together on this PLP unanimously, because we owe it to them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on some benches of the LaREM, LT and Agir ens groups. – Ms. Géraldine Bannier also applauds]] In conclusion, allow me to think of all those whose daily lives we need to improve, because we can do so, and to greet the representatives of the Allier pensioners, whom we recently met with André Chassaigne. As everywhere in France, they expect a lot of us because, beyond the financial aspect, it is also a question of recognition, dignity and consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u155	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u156	To compensate for Jean-Paul Dufrègne's legitimate speaking time, I would simply say to President Chassaigne, as I did in my opening remarks, that the Republican Group will naturally vote for the bill. We too would have preferred it to be adopted in its original version, but we welcome the efforts made towards these modest pensioners, who unfortunately had to wait too long to be corrected. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] I also want to stress that we are demonstrating here that we know how to adopt trans-partisan positions when the interests of our fellow citizens are at stake. We believe that the interests of retired farmers, who have long waited for us to act in their direction, fully justify this. Thanks to André Chassaigne and the GDR group; We support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u157	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u158	I wanted to thank our colleague, President André Chassaigne, for placing this bill on the Orders of the Day. We share the view that there is a need to reform the system of agricultural pensions, which is complex and unjust, and in particular the statutes of working spouses and family workers. I am thinking in particular of all those women who have been fighting for years to achieve such progress. Mr rapporteur, you have kept your promise, which was made here last year, when we adopted 85 % of the SMIC to upgrade the retirement pensions of farm managers. We had collectively set out to cross a new level in favour of collaborating spouses and family workers. It's done. I can only hope now that the bill follows a shorter, less chaotic path than the previous one. Its rapid adoption by our two chambers would result in a tangible improvement in the pensions of agricultural non-employees. Of course, we are not yet at the end of the road, and many injustices remain to be fought. The LT Group therefore regrets the abolition of the 85 % increase in the minimum pension for co-workers and family workers. Nevertheless, I would like to welcome the compromises reached on the other articles; They will enable the higher reference pension of co-workers and family workers to be aligned with that of heads of farms and limit the status of less protective co-workers to five years. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, Agir ens and GDR groups. – Mr. Gérard Leseul also applauds]] These points of balance are not perfect, but they have the merit of existing and making undeniable progress. We are aware of the need to broaden our thinking and action to improve the status of collaborating spouses and to act beyond the agricultural sector. A new appointment is given; Until then, our group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u159	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u160	I would also like to join the thanks extended to President Chassaigne and to welcome the major advances announced by the Government, because 100 euros per month for agricultural pensions is a significant increase. Beyond the spouses of farmers, it is to all the spouses of self-employed people that we should now look at, as well as to those who, by changing their profession over the course of their lives, change their diet. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] The complexity of the agricultural system has been mentioned: this applies to the whole of the schemes and, without wanting to play the game again, I want to stress that this complexity, as well as the lack of correspondence and convergence between the two, is the most precarious disadvantage, because it is they, who have the most difficulty in assimilating the rules, who are nevertheless the most exposed to the probability of a career course on different schemes. I therefore invite you, both of you, to depart from any political posture and to reflect on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u161	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u162	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u163	While we are aware that the step we have just taken is still limited, we believe that this gesture in favour of small agricultural pensions is an undeniable step forward. We also hope that it will be possible to do the same in the coming months for the small retreats of independents and traders; You can rest assured that we will be on the rendezvous. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] For the time being, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u164	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u165	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Mrs Stéphanie Rist also applaud]] Congratulations to André Chassaigne for his consistency and perseverance. This is bearing fruit when we have several mandates to his credit... I say this for those who would have in mind that parliamentary life must be short: experience is the future! More seriously, on behalf of the members of the IUD-I Group, we will be happy, together with Nicole Sanquer, to vote on this bill because, as Nicolas Turquois said, 100 euros for a small retirement is not a small matter. I now turn to the minister: I would really like us to be able, by the end of the legislature, to examine with the Government the case of all those who have small pensions, such as Geneviève, who worked as a partner of a craftsman for 43 or 44 years and who, at the age of 72, receives 350 euros of retirement. You will answer that it is because it has not contributed enough and there is the complementary, but our responsibility is to do everything to correct anomalies and injustices. I'm finally expressing another wish. The President of the Republic and several ministers referred to the possible return of the debate on pensions before the end of the quinquennium. If there is an emergency that we should take as a priority in the area of pensions, it is to decide, by the end of the legislature, a path of extinction of the special regimes: we have done so for that of the Members,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u168	...you have to do it for everyone else. It is then necessary to organize the convergence between the public and the private sector; After that, we will be able to consider, perhaps in the next parliamentary term, the introduction of a universal point-by-point pension scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u169	The concern of Mr. Castaner's moment seems to be on his phone, I'm going to ask for another member of the LaREM group. Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u170	Last year, it was thanks to a joint work carried out in a constructive spirit that André Chassaigne, together with Olivier Damaisin, had made it possible to improve the pensions of the farm managers. Today, the initiative advocated by our colleague André Chassaigne has had the merit of highlighting one of the major injustices of our retirement model, which also concerns independents, traders and artisans, which calls for a complete overhaul of our system. It is a collective effort of the majority group and its allies, along with the GDR group, to make this bill an effective piece of legislation, capable of effectively correcting the weakest pensions, the very unfairly affected by co-workers and family caregivers, still women. This work was carried out in consultation with the Government, which I would like to thank for the significant progress that has been made: an average of 100 euros for single-boarded women, an increase in the capping ceiling of 35 euros and a five-year limitation on the status of working spouses, all of which lead to more fairness. Beyond my personal satisfaction, since I had committed myself to defending the cause of retired women in agriculture in a bill that I had tabled with a large number of members of the majority and which incorporated these measures, I am sure that this day will bring great satisfaction to those women who deserve it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these historical advances, for our most deprived agricultural pensioners, I call on the Group of the European People's Party to vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u171	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u172	Before we move on to the next text, I also want to warmly thank André Chassaigne, but also all those who have been defending these measures for a long time on all benches. The Socialist and Related Group will of course vote for this text, as it has voted all the previous ones on the same subject. We would certainly have liked to go further, but we will keep the glass half full, because this bill undoubtedly improves the fate of co-workers and family workers. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I thank the Government for the progress it has made, but I would like to inform it that this bill does not end the debate. We have to go further, and I hope that we will do so very quickly, without waiting for another four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u173	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u174	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 132 Number of votes cast 132 Absolute majority 67 For adoption 132 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u175	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u176	I would like to thank all those who have mobilized for the adoption of this bill, and first of all my parliamentary team and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, who have accepted not only that this year again it is a proposal for a law on agricultural pensions that is included in our niche, but also that it is in the second position, when we are not certain, given the progress of this morning's sitting, that all the texts can be examined before this evening. I would also like to thank the administrators, with whom I have worked a lot, as well as the whole Committee on Social Affairs. This result is the result of a great deal of work done in connection with the Government, thanks to the many exchanges we have had with the minister's office. We were able to count on Jacqueline Dubois' commitment and build on the bill she introduced, just as we relied last year on Olivier Damaisin's work to defend our bill. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Géraldine Bannier also applauds]] Let's think about ending up with the beneficiaries. All of us who live in rural areas know people who will benefit from this progress. I hope, therefore, that the Senate will be able to quickly seize this text and that it will be able to vote in accordance with it in order to implement it as quickly as possible. We are talking about an increase that will vary from 30 to 40 euros or even 150 euros for some. This is an average of 98 euros, but thanks to the Government's commitment to increase MICO, the increase is expected to be over 100 euros. It's an amount that counts for very small pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u177	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u178	I would like to welcome these advances and the Republican consensus on President Chassaigne's bill. This will contribute to an alignment from the top of small pensions, by raising the capping ceiling, increasing the PMR at the level of the increased MICO and limiting a status that has become a source of precariousness. I would also like to reiterate the Government's commitment to three principles that have determined its position in the discussions: a principle of equity, a principle of contributoryness – it is the contributions that open up rights – and finally a principle of responsibility – we must ensure the sustainable financing of our social protection. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Moetai Brother also applauds]] It is now up to the Senate to take up this parliamentary initiative, but before that, I thank President Chassaigne for his initiative, the Social Affairs Committee and its chairman, Fadila Khattabi, for their constant commitment, as well as the majority, who has been the force of proposals, in particular Jacqueline Dubois and Nicolas Turquois. Finally, thank you to all the Members present and to the chairman of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u179	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u180	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u181	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on the establishment of technological risk prevention plans for installations permanently housing infrastructure for the parking, loading or unloading of dangerous goods (No 3266, 4230).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u182	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u183	Let us remember: on 21 September 2001, at 10 a.m. and 17 minutes, the explosion in the AZF factory marked the French people indelibly, making them aware of the technological risks. This day remains engraved in the marble of our legislation. This event aroused chain reactions in all our territories: associations were created, each French citizen looked around to see if he was not exposed to risks and measured that the sites near which he lived and which appeared to be safe could, overnight, cause a serious accident, sometimes a disaster. The government of the time listened and heard all the reactions of the French people and these associations. It considered that the Seveso Directive, in force before the explosion in Toulouse, was insufficient. It allowed for the establishment in our territories of risk perimeters within which the densification of the population, the construction on land to be built and the expansion of a house were not allowed, one point, that's all. Similar provisions had been introduced by the European Union following the explosion of the plant in Seveso. Following the event of 21 September 2001, the legislator considered that merely telling our citizens that they were living within a danger zone was insufficient and that the French State owed them more than that: it had to ensure their protection by specifying the exact nature of the danger, its precise level and the means of protecting itself from it: this represented a considerable step forward. The State should also encourage industrialists whose production is exposed to risks to reduce them at source; In doing so, it protected first the people who work at these sites and then those who live in their neighbourhood; Finally, he was leaving the danger zone for those who lived there. The Law of 30 July 2003 on the prevention of technological and natural risks and the repair of damage – all the words are important – known as the Bachelot Law or, in our jargon, the Law on PPRT – plans for the prevention of technological risks – represented a considerable step forward. All the words here are important: it was indeed a matter of planning to prevent any accident that could turn into a disaster given a technological risk. This progress was truly exceptional. It was in 2001, and it's 2021. The Act was enacted in 2003, which means that, for eighteen years, efforts have been made to implement it. In fact, 800 sites had been identified. If the definition of the PPRTs of some of them – for example, a gas tank and its surrounding perimeter – was simple, for others it was much more complicated. Some sites presented risks to the environment, which needed to be taken into account a possible domino effect, i.e. possible damage to another industrial site at risk, in a chain worsening that would have turned into a disaster. For these more complex sites, therefore, the risk prevention plan was later, which was basically a good thing for its apprehension itself. The Act was enacted in 2003, and the Secretary of State for Biodiversity had to take stock of it with her services. This law did not say everything – especially about costs – because it could not say everything. It was, in fact, voted under emotion, because it was necessary to provide a very quick response to the citizens, who were expressly waiting for it. In those circumstances, the legislator considered that it was not an embarrassment that the law did not contain all the desirable clarifications, and that it would be possible to refine it at a later stage. Over time, the provisions have been clarified by the Ministry of the Environment, advised by the Higher Council for the Prevention of Technological Risks and the various bodies that have enriched the text. Negotiations between industrialists, the State and local and regional authorities have also contributed to this. At the time, the local authorities collected the business tax; It was therefore considered that they had an interest in doing things right. After a few years, an agreement was reached between these three actors to accompany, with one third of the burden for each, the protection of the population. The reduction of risk at source was the essential dimension of the so-called PPRT law. In my good city in Le Havre, the risk inherent in the activities of Chevron Chemical extended, according to the criteria of the Seveso Directive, over a radius of 2 kilometres. The effort required of the industrialist to reduce the risk at the source – an accident would have had a considerable cost, since half of the city, or nearly 5000 inhabitants, was concerned – led him to change his manufacturing process: not only did he renounce fluorinated hydroxide, the gas at the origin of the risk, but his finished product was improved compared to the previous one, the manufacture of which was a source of danger. It is therefore important to encourage industrialists, those who create risks, to reduce them at source. It was because they had to put their hand in the pocket to compensate those who were at risk that the industrialists, at some point, set themselves around the table, at home, to seek to reduce it to the source. Within the framework of the legal framework, they were accompanied to do so, and the regions also joined in the process. They all wanted to say that, first of all, the industry had to continue to live; the second was to accompany the surrounding small businesses in their move, in order to protect them; thirdly, the property of the residents who were in extreme danger would be redeemed for the same protection; Finally, we would invest in other goods, in particular to equip them with breath-resistant windows. If I refer again to the legislation that introduced the PPRTs, it is because the proposed legislation before you envisages that the infrastructure for the transport of dangerous materials should be regarded as sites of technological risk. I am not referring here to railway lines, but to places where dangerous materials are handled, such as railway and port docks or truck loading sites. These sites should be considered in the same way as Seveso High Threshold plants. We need to move forward in this area, because there are two bell sounds in terms of technological risks. On the one hand, there are those who say that there is no risk or danger and that all regulations, including European ones, integrate the range of risks and are well applied. I would like to believe this, but at the same time the prefects communicate to the mayors to inform them, on the basis of hazard studies, to limit the urbanization of certain areas. As a last resort, the ball is in the camp of mayors, which it is up to them to decide. Sometimes, in the same city, some residents have been affected by a PPRT and have been compensated to protect themselves, while others have only received one report informing them that they are affected by a danger, without specifying the nature and means of protecting themselves, and without any support. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr. Gérard Leseul also applauds]] We therefore propose that you consider these sites for the transport and handling of dangerous materials as equivalents of Seveso sites high threshold; that is the meaning of this bill. It aims to ensure that people who have spent their lives buying or building their homes, located in a neighbourhood close to such sites, do not see their property devalued; In particular, it would encourage those involved in the transport of dangerous goods to reduce the risk at source, in line with the Bachelot law on the prevention of technological risks. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me time to finish my remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u184	If I was kind to you, it was because I was for nineteen years mayor of a city where fourteen sites ranked Seveso high threshold. It was a whole part of my life that paraded in your intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u185	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u186	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u187	The disaster at Toulouse's AZF plant in 2001 and the Lubrizol accident in 2019 have hard reminded us of the presence of technological risk in our territories, close to home, and the importance of prevention policies. In recent years, we have made steady progress in controlling these risks by taking stock of the mistakes and shortcomings of the past. The bill that you are presenting here, Mr rapporteur, puts this issue at the top of the agenda, and I thank you for that. This is an opportunity for me to recall all the Government's actions in this area. In the area of security, international and national rules complement each other and provide us with an already solid and well-founded legal arsenal. The application of international rules on the transport of dangerous goods ensures a high level of safety. These rules are based first on a precise identification of substances considered dangerous during their transport. These must be packed in special packagings that are resistant to aggression, fire and anything that could lead to their dispersal into the environment under reasonably foreseeable conditions. Thus, the likelihood of a serious accident during transport is lower than in industrial facilities where hazardous materials are produced, handled and used. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it would seem disproportionate to me to directly assimilate the risks associated with the transport of dangerous materials to those related to their manufacture, which takes place at high threshold Seveso sites. Moreover, the Seveso Directive expressly excludes transport operations from its scope: this is a first point which I consider important to stress. In this respect, the Environmental Code requires regular exercises, particularly since the Lubrizol accident. The frequency of testing of internal operating plans (IOPs) is once a year for high threshold Seveso sites and once every three years for other industrial sites subject to the obligation to have an IOP. I would therefore like to make this clear: the main infrastructure for the transport of dangerous goods (ITMD) is the subject of a hazard study. Such studies provide insight into the risk contours around this type of facility and may lead to ad hoc prevention measures to reduce the risk at source. In the same spirit of responsibility, the prefect may also limit the future urbanization of an area on the grounds that these facilities present risks. I am referring here to bringing these strong elements of our prevention policy, which you have also mentioned, Mr rapporteur. Indeed, an industrial installation, whether it is classified Seveso or not, requires a reflection on its integration into the territory and in the long term: this requires the setting of rules, not only for the present, but also for the future. It is precisely for this reason that the Barnier Fund and the PPRT are not intended to grant compensation, nor any modification of an urban planning document. The limits we draw are known in advance, predictable, clear and have only one goal: to protect our fellow citizens at best. Therefore, one might think that the residents suffer from these rules and that the value of their heritage is amputated by the risk price: this is a welcome idea. In fact, it was objected to, with all the studies demonstrating the opposite. When we publish a report or a PPRT, this does not result in depreciation of real estate assets over the medium to long term. However, there is a real challenge of proper ownership of the risk culture and consultation before the process of bringing it to the attention of the public is started. This issue of the modernization of information and consultation tools is currently the subject of a specific mission, entrusted to Frédéric Courant – perhaps better known for his TV duo with Jamy Gourmaud – and whose proposals are expected during the summer. Of course, the Government will study them carefully and the follow-up will be made public. In this regard, it should be noted that extensive work has been undertaken to reshape the risk culture following the Lubrizol accident: it goes beyond the transport infrastructure of dangerous goods alone. One way forward that we can already consider would be to set up commissions to monitor infrastructure for the transport of dangerous goods, in particular to explain the reasons and consequences of bringing this information to the attention of the public, since risk reduction is primarily a matter of trust and transparency. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, the state services are fully mobilized in this area, in order to ensure security around the transport infrastructure for dangerous materials, but also to share information and mediate on the territories. As you know, PPRTs only exist in France...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u188	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u189	... and are not necessarily relevant everywhere and in all situations. They must be reserved for the largest risk factors, which explains why they concern the Seveso high threshold sites. Thanks to the international regulation on the transport of dangerous goods, the lack of handling of these carefully conditioned materials during transport, the hazard studies and the procedures to be brought to the attention of the public, I believe that we have a sufficiently robust arsenal to prevent the risks associated with the transport infrastructure of dangerous goods. To take responsibility to the French is first of all to hold a speech of truth, so to concentrate the resources of the inspection of the classified installations on the control and the presence on the ground rather than to create a new device. The Government had also increased the number of staff responsible for inspecting classified facilities, with the creation of 30 posts in 2020. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] If we differ on the technical modalities, we agree on the need to ensure the safety of French and French people and share the same will to strengthen our risk prevention policies. We owe it to our fellow citizens, to our children and, of course, to the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u190	In the general debate, Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u191	Mr rapporteur, you are seizing a common-sense bill from our assembly – that is the term that would come to mind for anyone who would examine the text. The purpose of this document is to include infrastructure works for the parking, loading or unloading of hazardous materials within the regulatory provisions of the PPRTs. As you recalled, this bill is consistent in that it is fully consistent with the work carried out following the explosion of the AZF plant by Minister Roselyne Bachelot. As you also indicated, as soon as the legislation that created the PPRTs was passed, Ms. Bachelot indicated that further steps should be taken to consolidate them, including for the infrastructure that is being discussed here. Let us be clear, we are talking about railway warehouses, docks and harbour docks, multimodal facilities and transport companies whose sites contain dangerous materials. It is everyone's pleasure to believe in this House that this type of facility will develop in the future, in line with international and national exchanges and public policies which we are told will focus on the development of logistics infrastructure. In fact, places of transport of dangerous goods are an integral part of the supply chain entering and leaving Seveso industrial sites. About 40 – if I am not mistaken, Mr rapporteur – the location nodes concerned, which are devoted to the transit of products at risk, varying in length, are fixed and permanent. Security, as well as safety, are therefore crucial. According to colleagues in the majority, the European regulations on the transport of dangerous goods already provide the necessary guarantees. Apart from the fact that the text refers to places of accommodation and not to moving flows, the provisions relating to the transport of dangerous goods, on the contrary to the assertions of the majority, would be usefully supplemented by the proposed law, subject, of course, to work that still needs to be done. Transparency and accountability of all actors in the perimeters and territories concerned are essential. First of all, residents must of course have reliable information and communication, especially as they trigger faculties and rights, particularly in urban planning and housing. The same applies to local and regional authorities, whose urban development projects require readability. Extending the regulation of PPRTs to these transport facilities would also increase the vigilance of all local actors. I am referring here to this famous risk culture, which everyone rightly talks about, but too often after a hard blow. The aim is to empower residents to protect themselves from risks and to protect their property from possible harm. Finally, as you said, it is a matter of mobilising entrepreneurs by forcing them to raise the level of supervision and contribution to the integrity of their business and the surrounding social life pool. Nothing, nor the complexity of the PPRTs and their link with the regulation of dangerous transport flows, nor the financial stakes associated with protective measures, could justify a waiver, except a lack of political will to continue the necessary work carried out for many years, which our rapporteur is now proposing to complete. Do I have to remind you, as other members of this assembly – in particular Gérard Leseul, Member of Parliament for Seine-Maritime, the rapporteur and myself – could do, that the enormous accident in Lubrizol, which has heavily affected the region of Roubinnais to the ends of the country of Bray, even to the north of France, has intervened in a logistics warehouse site adjacent to a production site yet both covered by a PPRT? Should I remind you that it took several days to clearly identify hazardous materials stored at both sites? [[Smile on a few benches]] So, Madam Secretary of State, failing to be responsible for any accident – which is of course not the point of the rapporteur's remarks, and we know that there is no zero risk in this matter – don't be guilty for a few handfuls of dollars! I use the phrase "a few handfuls of dollars" because, in the Seine-Maritime, we are still concerned about the consequences of this accident. I remember, like some of us here, the words of the mayors who were interviewed by the president of the information mission, Christophe Bouillon: these mayors of the Rouennese agglomeration and rural areas told us that they wanted to be informed of the perils that could potentially affect the population. Whether it is the Seine axis, which is particularly exposed to risks, or the Rhododian axis – and I turn to our colleague Pierre Dharréville – they wanted to be exemplary for these industrial basins where Seveso sites are concentrated, but also sites for loading, storing and unloading dangerous products. They expressed their readiness to engage in an exemplary policy in their territory so that the inhabitants and all the industrial and social actors could live in peace by having done everything possible to combat the risk of industrial accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u192	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u193	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] That is the step that our rapporteur proposes to take.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u194	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u195	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u196	The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group shares the desire to make our infrastructure more secure. We have recently known, as Mr Lecoq pointed out, industrial accidents in France and elsewhere in the world, which fortunately have not had too serious consequences in our country but have drawn our attention and that of the public on the management of dangerous materials. While these unfortunate events may call for a reassessment of certain procedures, we believe that this bill, by adding complexity and ignoring the international and European legal framework in which we operate, misses its target. You are proposing, Mr rapporteur, to change the scope of the technological risk prevention plans to include the infrastructure for parking, loading or unloading hazardous materials. Finally, under this technical name are some of the common places, namely railway warehouses, wharves or docks, which are all places of passage of goods of all kinds, some of which circulate throughout the continent, or even beyond, and whose conditions of transport, of which we cannot fight with impunity, are governed by international standards negotiated and adopted with our partners. To adopt this PLP is to violate international and European law and to call into question the entire security system which we can be delighted that it has proved its worth. The transport of dangerous goods is thus strictly regulated by the Convention on International Carriage by Rail (COTIF), whose section on dangerous goods is updated every two years. This technical regulation ensures a high level of risk control and, in so doing, the acceptability of the transport of all these types of goods in each of the States concerned. With regard specifically to hazardous materials, the regulations require that they be clearly identified in order to accurately calibrate response to a problem and significantly reduce the likelihood of a serious accident. The purpose of the proposed law is to apply the rules for dangerous goods in transport to those in production: this would unbalance the current system and thus pose a real problem. Then, from a strictly practical point of view, I wonder how you intend to set up, in a site where hundreds of different companies are involved, a PPRT whose cost will be borne in equal shares – I come back to your handfuls of dollars, Mr Wulfranc – by the state, the community and the operator. In the case of docks, railway warehouses or loading docks, how can the cost of taking over the industrial sector be shared efficiently and equitably? Will this cost depend on the volume handled or the time spent? Without a bad set of words, I fear that the adoption of this PLP will lead to an incomprehensible gas plant. And what about the additional costs and steps it would impose? These, while we have shown that they are far from indispensable, would create a real distortion of competition with our European neighbours. Moreover, and this is far from being a detail, the proposed scheme simply runs counter to the European principle of the free movement of goods and, more specifically, to the very technical framework of the Seveso regulation. I would also like to recall that the law already imposes on the infrastructure concerned a hazard study, which may lead to prefectural orders imposing risk reduction measures on the various stakeholders. The activities of logistics actors are therefore very supervised and they cannot do anything when transporting dangerous materials. Finally, the last detail is far from negligible, and the proposed arrangement is legally very fragile. This PLP does not in fact modify the right article since, by addressing only article L. 515-36 of the Environmental Code, the text does not appear to be applicable as it stands. [[Mrs Géraldine Bannier and Camille Galliard-Minier applaud]] For all these reasons, and as you will understand, the Dem Group stands against this text. Not that the issue of the safety of the transport of dangerous goods does not deserve further attention, but because the proposed device does not address the issues raised. Yes to improve the current framework if you wish, but unfortunately not through this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u197	The Member of Parliament for Lacq that I am no longer supports the term "gas factory". The Secretary of State also reacted unfavorably by hearing it. Let's try not to use it anymore! Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u198	The purpose of this bill is to extend the implementation of plans for the prevention of technological risks to the transport of dangerous substances and to the intermediate temporary storage directly linked to it. The implementation of these plans, the measures of which are aimed at reducing the risks incurred by industrial sites presenting risks of major accidents as a result of the handling or permanent storage of dangerous materials, concerns only those sites classified at very high risk, the Seveso high threshold establishments, the list of which is fixed by a decree in the Council of State. Mr rapporteur, your Group on the Democratic and Republican Left finds the scope of these plans too small and proposes to extend the development of PPRTs to include places for parking, transit, loading or unloading of land, sea or river vehicles carrying dangerous materials which pose particular risks because of the nature of the products which reside there in large quantities and their high variability. The implementation of these PRTRs is undoubtedly a success, although they concern only the most dangerous industrial sites. These plans aim to ensure the protection of populations living near these sites and ensure a good coexistence between them and the surrounding urbanization. I thank you for putting back on the table, with this PPL, a debate on the scope of these plans that took place in 2003 during the discussion of the Bachelot law that introduced them. However, the widening of the perimeter leading to the regulation of urban planning as a high-threshold Seveso site is a decision that cannot be taken lightly. To enforce around a station, for example, a distancing similar to the most at-risk sites seems unlikely. Furthermore, as the Secretary of State pointed out, the scope of the European Directive Seveso 3 – the latest – excludes the transport of dangerous substances and the temporary and intermediate storage which is directly linked to it by road, rail, inland waterway and sea or by air, including loading and unloading activities and the transfer from and to another mode of transport on a wharf or rail yard. In addition, the Bachelot Act introduced an obligation for transport infrastructure managers hosting a large quantity of dangerous goods to carry out not PPRTs but hazard studies every five years. It is these documents that set the maximum quantity of hazardous materials, which are allowed to park only for a limited period of time. Where appropriate, minimum requirements are then imposed on the operator by a prefectural order. Finally, it should be stressed that terminal operators must employ persons specialised in the management of goods whose role is precisely to ensure the safety of transport. The lack of impact assessment and legal setback does not allow us to support this bill. This issue would require a more dense and well-informed piece of legislation that we would be prepared to work on. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, and contrary to the two previous PPLs for which we have followed you, the Republican Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u199	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u200	Last Monday, a new incident occurred at the Lubrizol plant in Rockton, United States. Just under two years after Rouen's, the images recall the absolute need to protect people from technological and industrial risks. In La société du risque, a book written shortly after the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, Ulrich Beck alerted our societies that social production of wealth is systematically correlated with social production of risk. This is why we must do everything we can to build strong and protective legislation: this is the object of the great legislative progress achieved over the last twenty years with the help of the various successive governments. While the bill deserves to be debated at the level of the stakes, a debate that places people and the risks to which they are exposed at the heart of our discussions, it also raises questions on several points. Our main criticism relates to the proposed approach to the overall consistency of our risk policy. Firstly, the single article of the proposed law proposes to extend the PPRTs, which are reserved only for Seveso high-threshold sites, to transit sites for dangerous goods during transport; However, the status of substances in transport cannot be assimilated to that of dangerous substances being manufactured. Moreover, as the Secretary of State pointed out, Article 2 of the Seveso Directive of 4 July 2012, which lays down the rules applicable to Seveso sites, is very clear: the transport of dangerous substances is expressly excluded from its scope and – should we recall this? – the temporary or intermediate storage directly linked to it, which are the subject of the proposed law. Why? Because the transport of dangerous goods is subject to demanding European and international regulations, which are specific to the movement of these substances which, as a matter of principle, cross borders; it ensures secure conditions of movement, whether the transport takes place by road, rail, inland waterway, sea or air. This is the case, for example, of COTIF, which has been transposed into a 2008 European Directive, according to which dangerous substances must be properly identified and packed in suitable and resistant packagings in order to limit the risks. We cannot unilaterally free ourselves from common rules. Other Member States could be tempted to do the same, and this would undermine the basis of our shared legislation. Second, there are already tools in domestic law to prevent technological risks in the vicinity of transport infrastructure for dangerous goods; they are subject to regularly updated hazard studies, which may lead to a procedure for bringing them to the attention of the public. This is the mayor-prefect couple who are at the manoeuvring; We can count on the actors of the territory, who know the reality of the areas at risk. This can be supplemented by the Community information documents on major risks (DICRIM), the inspections of the Regional Directorates for the Environment, Planning and Housing (DREAL) or the consultative body known as CODERST, the Departmental Council for the Environment and Health and Technology Risks. National operators shall act in addition to the legal framework: the SNCF shall draw up dangerous goods plans at each of its yard stations to facilitate the decision and action of rescue services in the event of an accident; the port of Le Havre, well known to the rapporteur, as well as the ports of Paris and Rouen, use a specific control system, the computerised processing of dangerous goods (TIMAD), the first platform in Europe for the management and monitoring of dangerous goods. Third, the Government and the presidential majority have acted to strengthen the level of technological risk prevention requirements. Following the Lubrizol incident, an action plan with strong measures was introduced in February 2020: improved storage conditions for hazardous products, the creation of an alert tool, an increase of 50% in the number of annual inspections by the end of the quinquennium, a review of the hazard studies and a strengthening of the industrialists' internal operational plans. The national representation also constituted a fact-finding mission, after which the rapporteur, our colleague Damien Adam, made proposals; the resumption of one of the most operational measures – the creation of an office of investigation and analysis on industrial risk – is provided for in the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects that we are considering these days. [[Christine Cloarec-Le Nabour applauds]] In conclusion, tools exist; Some are perfectable, others are insufficiently mobilized by the communities and actors concerned. That is why, as parliamentarians, we will be attentive to the mission's conclusions on transparency, information and the participation of all in the management of major, technological or natural risks. In the meantime, the bill seems to be missing its target: by focusing solely on the infrastructure of hazardous materials, it is too specific and inoperative under existing domestic and international law. That is why Members of the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u201	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u202	I would like once again to thank the rapporteur, Jean-Paul Lecoq, for this proposal for a law on industrial risk management. Both elected from Seine-Maritime – together with our colleague Hubert Wulfranc – we come from a department marked by the industrial footprint and we share the same will to ensure every moment of security for the inhabitants living near industrial sites. The Lubrizol accident reminded us of how quickly a disaster happened, with its lot of potentially disastrous and sometimes irretrievably dramatic consequences. PPRTs are one of the tools to reduce risk at its source, and that is a good thing. They were created in 2003 by the Bachelot Act to add a master's component of urban planning to the national scheme for the prevention of industrial risks, which we welcome; Unfortunately, they only concern sites classified as high-risk Seveso. During the drafting of the legislation, the PPRTs covered seventy industrial establishments established in 900 municipalities. Their adoption was long: in 2010, 273 PPRT had been launched and 28 approved; In 2020, 285 PPRTs were approved in more than 800 municipalities. In Seine-Maritime, there are of course Le Havre and Rouen, but also Rives-en-Seine, Caudebec, Lillebonne, Port-Jérôme-sur-Seine – communes that I know well because they are in my constituency. The PPRTs provide a balance between economic development requirements and the protection of the surrounding population. They define around high-risk installations areas within which requirements may be imposed on existing and future constructions and others within which future constructions may be prohibited; They also define the boundaries within which expropriation is possible because of very serious danger threatening human life and those within which municipalities can give owners a right of abandonment and preempt property in the event of transfers of property. The bill has the merit of expanding the purpose of the PPRTs. She does not miss her target at all; on the contrary, it applies to installations permanently housing mobile stocks of hazardous materials in the same way as installations classified under the PPRTs. The aim is to extend very clearly the scope of the PPRTs provided for by the Bachelot Act, which is limited to Seveso High Threshold facilities, to include all facilities that house dangerous mobile stocks. Legally, this would ensure the effective protection of workers, populations and economic and personal property, as well as the financing of PPRTs by polluters. Would be concerned with storage at yard stations, parking lots, river barges on rivers, sea docks, airport platforms... In short, all storage areas likely to become contaminated areas. We will clearly vote in favour of this progress. But with this bill, we have the opportunity to enhance the transparency and safety of the residents who reside near the most dangerous industrial sites. Thus, we suggest rethinking the development of PRTRs across industrial platforms. Indeed, the concept of a platform is particularly well suited to industrial activities based on complex and intertwined processes, particularly in urbanised areas – the links that have been recalled between Lubrizol and the warehousekeeper Normandy Logistics illustrate this combination that we need to master better. This justifies the recognition of the concept of an industrial platform. We also propose to extend the purpose of the hazard studies to the impact of climate change and to introduce mandatory training for subcontractors on safety and the reflexes to be adopted in the event of a risk arising within the company. Finally, we wish to make it mandatory for the operator to keep an exhaustive list of products stored on an industrial site. Our group carried out important work on the subject after the Lubrizol accident. As a result, due to a lack of resources and independence, controls were failing. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] Recently, a new pollution of neonicotinoids in the Seine has come to remind that particularly dangerous products are stored in buildings that are not classified Seveso. The extension of the scope of the PPRTs would therefore be a very good thing. Let us take advantage of this text presented by our colleague to reconcile industrial activity with human activity in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u203	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u204	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u205	On September 21, 2021, we will commemorate the twenty years of the explosion of the AZF plant, which caused more than 2,500 injuries and 31 deaths. This and other more recent disasters remind us that some industrial facilities are not safe and can be the scene of accidents endangering the environment and the health of those living near these sites. They also stress the importance of discussing such issues here. We are open to debate and thank our colleague for initiating it in the bill, which aims to include in the PPRT the infrastructure for loading, unloading and parking hazardous materials. We have learned lessons from the past in order to change the body of legislation. Thus, the Bachelot law has strengthened preventive actions in several areas to better control risk; Risk analysis is now more accurate and thus takes into account more elements such as the probability, severity or kinetics of accidents. The Act also established local committees for consultation and information for local actors to improve, in conjunction with the State, knowledge of the activities carried out; enriching the information provided to residents with the obligation to notify tenants and buyers of potential risks; and, for the first time – it should be stressed – created PPRTs. These PPRTs make it possible to control the risks in the territories hosting high-risk industrial sites, the famous sites classified Seveso, by imposing rules on the present and future urbanization of the installations, with the primary concern to protect the lives of our citizens. In addition to this body of legislation, various European directives have been adopted to limit the risks associated with the transport of dangerous materials and the risks of explosions on site. However, while the purpose of the bill is commendable and its undeniable interest, it does not seem to be in conformity with European and international law. The text thus, in a way, weakens the common regulatory structure. We have already discussed in committee the fact that it is difficult to assimilate dangerous materials during transport with those being manufactured. Mr rapporteur, you are targeting unloading sites, infrastructure. However, as our colleague from the Republic has said very well, the European directives apply to intermediate and temporary storage. Because of this regulatory constraint, we cannot support this text. In terms of form, by extending the list of sites subject to a PPRT, the legislative proposal would have the effect of changing the constraints on sites, such as yard yards, which are not exposed to risk. The same problem arises for the concentration of dangerous substances in transport. With regard to the infrastructure covered by the Act, the Act already provides for a hazard study, which may result in prefectural orders imposing risk reduction measures, as in the case of a threat of natural disasters. The risk to residents is always taken into account when installing sites with technological risks, whether or not they are covered by a PPRT. Some 400 PPRTs have been identified by the Ministry of Ecological Transition for 600 Seveso establishments, several of which may be subject to the same PPRT. For example, in the Chemical Valley, south of Lyon, France's most important prevention plan, currently under development, includes ten sites classified as Seveso, no less than 12,000 employees, 7,000 dwellings and 26,000 inhabitants exposed to industrial risk. I'm going to the cost analysis. Such a change in the law must be subject to negotiation with the State, local authorities and businesses in order to determine the distribution of costs. However, the text does not specify the modalities. Nor do we know the economic impact of the measure. For all these reasons, although the subject deserves to be discussed, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u206	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u207	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the victims of the industrial accidents at the AZF plant in Toulouse in 2001 and the Lubrizol plant in Rouen in 2019, which have had a hard impact on the industrial history of our country. We are thinking of all the victims of these disasters, who could have been avoided by applying the rules and procedures. Two days ago, a new explosion took place in a factory of the Lubrizol Group in the United States. The bill has the merit of addressing the subject of dangerous loading and unloading sites, which are not dealt with in the Act of 30 July 2003. However, the transport of these products is already subject to a demanding international regulation, COTIF, transposed into a European directive. As pollution does not know borders, European regulations are the right level for these types of standards. By way of derogation, it would risk paving the way for countries that are less telling about the environment than we are. Therefore, if we agree on the principle, we expect more precision on the number of sites concerned, a timetable for application and a cost study for industrialists. The text could have the effect of changing the constraints on sites not affected by the risk, such as yard yards, as well as limiting the development of our rail industry and freight, which no one wants here. In addition, with regard to the infrastructure covered by the Act, the Act already provides for mechanisms, including prefectural orders requiring risk reduction measures. Finally, we question the potentially high cost of the bill; Its distribution between the State, communities and enterprises is not fixed. This text therefore seems to be still incomplete and deserves further evaluation and analysis. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will not support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u208	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u209	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this bill which the Group of the European People's Party approves. In September 2019, 9500 tons of chemicals burned and a 70-kilometre-long black smoke plume was formed, when an out-of-standard fire ravaged part of the Lubrizol plant, classified as Seveso, in Rouen. The group, which has since been under judicial supervision, had to pay a guarantee of 375000 euros and provide a security of 4 million euros, in order to repair – if possible – the human and environmental damage caused by the fire. But, as the association of disaster victims points out, one year after the disaster, the Government does not go far enough, not fast enough in determining the damage and the modalities of compensation. I could also have referred to the explosion of the AZF plant in Toulouse in 2001, emblematic of industrial disasters, which caused the death of 31 people and injured nearly 2500 of them. The bill is in keeping with the Bachelot Act, which was passed following the explosion of AZF and which introduced the PPRTs. These documents promote the control of urbanization around Seveso high-threshold industrial sites. They help to limit the consequences of accidents that may occur at these sites by delimiting a risk exposure area, subdivided into different areas, depending on the type of risk, their severity or their probability. The aim of the text, which we support, is to go further, in particular by extending the scope of the PPRTs. To do this, he tends to rewrite an article in the Environmental Code dedicated to facilities classified for the protection of the environment, because they are likely to create major accidents and involve dangerous substances. For example, a PPRT would be needed for "parking, loading or unloading" infrastructure, such as railway warehouses, wharves, docks, multimodal facilities or road transport companies with hazardous materials. The main aim is to fill a legal gap and allow for legitimate compensation for residents, so that they can carry out work and better protect themselves from risks. In addition, the text could encourage industrialists to reduce risks at the source, i.e. to install infrastructure as far away as possible from the population. Such displacement would reduce the risk to residents, even if vigilance would remain in place, as it could threaten the preservation of agricultural land. Environmental and health standards must be demanding. Increased risk prevention is needed to prevent the recurrence of disasters such as AZF and Lubrizol. We must be vigilant and allow the human and financial means to increase the controls of these structures. Madam Secretary of State, I think I heard that an increase in controls was planned. But how can it be effective when, for example, you have eliminated 40 out of 900 positions at the DREAL in New Aquitaine in 2019? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] As the rapporteur points out, human beings must be at the heart of risk management policies. We will also be defending an amendment to make ammonium nitrate storage subject to a reporting regime. In conclusion, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u210	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u211	Let's put the debate in context. Why is this bill both so "unspecified" and so rich? We considered that the provisions that were satisfactory should not be rewritten. We do not claim here to reinvent the wire to cut the butter! The Bachelot Act, which created the PPRTs, creates a good dynamic in terms of urbanization, compensation and consultation. It provides for the development of PPRTs in consultation with riparian associations and industry. Why rewrite a provision that has proven its worth and is suitable for everyone? I want proof of the example of Le Havre. We talked about its port, but we should also mention the petrochemical platform, where it was decided to create a Seveso factory a few years ago. It was inaugurated without any reaction or almost on the part of the population. Do you know many places in France where this is possible? Well, it was because a TRP was established by involving all actors, by promoting transparency, so that people would feel protected by this plan. Yes, it is because we do not want to rewrite the devices that work although the bill is "very unspecified," as you say. At the same time, it is very rich, because it relies on a whole story – it must be read to this aune. The text deals with urbanization and not with the production or transport of hazardous materials. It does not call into question the European directive on the inland transport of dangerous goods or the Seveso directives. Did the Seveso guidelines require industrialists to provide PPRTs? No. Is the introduction of PPRTs by the French legislator contrary to the Seveso Directives? Neither. Do not oppose what is not enforceable. The Seveso Directives lay down rules, bases. Secondly, in France, we also take into consideration the Constitution, the constitutionality block and their provisions on the environment and the protection of persons. In fact, the bill is in line with the constitutional bloc – none of you have questioned its constitutionality. Better, it respects the requirements of the Constitution. That was your question, I believe, Madam Secretary of State: why should this text be tabled now? To mark the 20th anniversary of the AZF plant explosion? No. Because the prefect of Seine-Maritime notified the mayor of Le Havre of a new report on the industrial-port area, at the end of 2019, just after the Lubrizol disaster. Maybe he thought it would allow him to quickly pass the baby to the mayor? Someone stated earlier that the person in charge of the positions at the dock could not be determined because several actors shared them. But then who did the hazard studies on which the prefect relied to bring it to the attention of the public? Wherever hazard studies are the subject of such documents, the person responsible for the risk is known. The argument is therefore not valid. When prefects carry a danger to the mayors' knowledge, it is a way to send them back the ball, to force them to take on them if they nevertheless choose to allow the expansions of houses, for example. However, some mayors to whom hazard studies are addressed do not even have information about the cause of reporting, at the time they receive it! Conversely, in the PPRT, all details are indicated. This has even sometimes gone too far, to the extent that the Ministry of Environmental Transition has been moved by the publication of these documents on the Internet, because of the terrorist risk. The idea of generalizing the standards applicable to Seveso high threshold sites seems important to me. Some of you have asked me about the number of new PPRTs and the cost of my proposed legislation. How many railway sites do you think could be affected? For now, I know four of them. It's not huge. These are sites, which, according to SNCF, permanently house, on average, the equivalent of fifty wagons of dangerous chemicals – remember! PPRTs were designed for gas tanks that were not much larger than two or three cars of dangerous products, even though they were not production, but storage. And we wouldn't develop them for sites with an average of fifty cars? We have an obligation to seek, in connection with the operator, ways to protect the inhabitants as best as possible. This is the meaning of the precision of the text. I invite you to take a close look at this. There is no objection to the adoption of the bill, not even European rules. On the contrary, it is part of a logical sequence. Mr Damien Adam's report on the fire at the Lubrizol site was cited, but I would like to read out the report of the committee of inquiry on the safety of industrial installations and research centres and on the protection of persons and the environment in the event of a major industrial accident, set up by the National Assembly following the explosion of the AZF plant in Toulouse, whose proposals led to the Bachelot law: "It was very clear to all members of the committee that the issues relating to the transport of dangerous materials and the safety of transport infrastructures, in particular ports, stations and airports, also deserved the greatest attention. That is why the committee considers it absolutely necessary to set up, from the beginning of the next parliamentary term, a committee of inquiry on matters relating to the transport of dangerous materials and the safety of transport infrastructures, in particular ports, airports and stations. It was also written at the end of the report: "An extension of the work carried out by the commission is essential for the safety of transport, yard stations, ports and airports. It was in 2003. The subject has not been discussed in the next legislature, and, eighteen years later, it has still not been discussed! To remedy this, we propose a democratic, useful and time-bound approach. There is nothing to say that we will have to pay tomorrow. There is no indication that everyone's contributions will be fixed right now. The financial distribution was no more fixed in the Bachelot law than it is today. It will obviously have to be determined with the various actors involved, but we do not want to do so in the bill. There's still a lot of work to do. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] It took 20 years to implement the TPPs, and this is not yet over. Nothing prevents us from devoting twenty years to the subject we are dealing with today, but the question we are asked is: when do we start?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u212	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u213	I now call the single article of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u214	On the single article, I have a request from the GDR Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I put the single article to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u215	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 16 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u216	Ah, that's too bad, it's been played!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u217	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor in support of Amendment No 2 on the additional article after the single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u218	It aims to rethink the development of PRTRs across industrial platforms. As mentioned above, the concept of an industrial platform was originally conceived by the industrialists themselves in a pragmatic approach, particularly in what is known as the chemistry corridor in the Lyon region. The aim is to break with an overly fragmented approach – installation by installation – in the application of the regulatory framework and in the pace of associated administrative controls. The concept of a platform seems particularly suitable for industrial activities based on complex and intertwined processes, particularly in urbanised environments. The links between Lubrizol and the warehousekeeper Normandy Logistics are unfortunately a perfect example of this interlocking. The accident at the Lubrizol plant on 26 September 2019 requires rethinking the development of PPRTs at the scale of industrial platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u220	A few years ago, our country suffered from a severe drought, to the point where concern was expressed at the end of the summer as to how to cool nuclear reactors at power stations located along almost dry streams. I welcome the proposal to take into account a concept as important as the climate impact in hazard studies, and I am bored that I did not think about it. That is why I am personally in favour of the amendment, even if the committee has given an unfavourable opinion. The Secretary of State will certainly have some interesting things to say about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u222	The amendment, which proposes to rethink the development of PPRTs at the scale of industrial platforms, is largely satisfied: by the circular of 25 June 2013 on the treatment of economic platforms within the framework of PPRTs, known as the Batho circular, but also, more recently, by the introduction of the concept of industrial platform in the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE law, supplemented by a decree in the Council of State. In any event, the PPRT section of the Environmental Code allows them to be common to a platform. This is a constant practice. The explanatory memorandum addresses many other issues, including the risk of spreading between neighbouring installations in the event of an accident. However, several regulatory acts adopted following the Lubrizol accident have strengthened the guarantees to avoid this domino effect. The PPRTs were also designed, following the accident at the AZF plant, to correct incompatibilities between existing urban planning and the presence of high-risk Seveso threshold facilities. The possible extension of these facilities is subject to a preliminary instruction from the Inspectorate of Classified Facilities to ensure such compatibility, as well as the development of danger zones and urbanization. Therefore, there is no doubt that there is a need to predict the evolution of PPRTs over time. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u223	What about the climate?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u224	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u225	It is intended to make it mandatory for the operator to keep an exhaustive list of products stored on an industrial site. Our colleague Hubert Wulfranc pointed out just now how much such a list was expected not only by the elected representatives but also by the citizens. We need transparency about the products stored, a fortiori when they were damaged by an accident. The list should also be accompanied by an analysis of the effects of these products on health and the environment carried out by a college of independent experts. Unfortunately, experience shows that the information reaches us in a very partial way, and far too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u227	The experience of Rouen is an argument in favour of the amendment. We often talk, and the Secretary of State mentioned it, about petrochemical industrial platforms. But in addition to these plants, which are subject to transparency and reporting obligations by the PPRTs, there are other companies that, while they house hazardous materials, are not always subject to regulation, as their possession may not be subject to reporting. The declaration may be mandatory because of the quantities stored, but the substance itself does not necessarily justify it. However, in the event of a fire, these materials may pose a risk to the environment and health. It is therefore important to document the products stored at these sites. This is the case for plants that house chemicals. Firefighters also have specific records indicating what they are likely to be exposed to if they intervene. On the other hand, this documentation is not systematically drawn up for companies and places where goods are stored nearby. The obligation to inform stored products allows answers, including health, to be provided within days of a possible disaster, to treat and protect the persons concerned and to act to protect the environment. As a result of the fire at the Lubrizol plant, the question arose as to whether it was possible to consume the crops of the nearby workers' gardens, or the eggs and milk produced not far from the plant. It therefore seems to me important to support the amendment, despite the committee's opposition, in order to provide answers as quickly as possible to the multitude of questions raised by the storage of products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u229	The purpose of the amendment, resulting from the experience gained from the Lubrizol plant accident, was already included in the Government's action plan of 11 February 2020. It found its concrete declination in the post-Lubrizol decrees published in the Official Journal of 26 September 2020. Prior to the accident at the Lubrizol plant, the regulations on classified facilities already provided that operators would keep at the disposal of the State the lists of products present at the site and their quantities as well as the hazard studies assessing the potential consequences of an accident at the site. The feedback from the Lubrizol accident showed that it was very useful information in the event of an accident to facilitate the management of the crisis, but also requested by stakeholders in the interests of responsiveness and transparency. However, it was found that the operator, who was very involved in the management of the accident and its consequences, could be less available to extract the material tracking software on the site and provide it in a suitable format. Operators of Seveso sites, licensed warehouses and waste sorting, transit and consolidation sites are now required to ensure regular monitoring of the materials present in each part of the site they operate, in a format that is not dependent on the physical conditions of the site – a cloud, for example, or any other external format. This document shall specify the nature of the substances present and their hazardous properties and include a description of the substances to the general public. In addition, the daily administrative inventory will have to be periodically recalibrated by a physical inventory, pursuant to the Ministerial Order of 26 September 2020, which is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2022. I therefore express an opinion against the amendment, because it is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u230	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u231	Madam Secretary of State, the amendment is intended to clarify that documents must be provided within 48 hours. You have responded to the obligation to keep such documents, but this is a question of their disclosure within a specific time frame. This has been missed many times in previous incidents and is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u232	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 5, which is the subject of sub-amendments Nos 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u233	Many of you have spoken of a risk culture, sometimes regretting France's delay in doing so. The amendment aims to develop this culture by asking operators of dangerous products to communicate their accident prevention policy and to work more closely with local authorities to organise life-size exercises to better involve the population. This would enable our fellow citizens to better understand industrial issues and to better accept industries in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u234	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u235	Subamendment No 13 is intended to delete the first part of Amendment No 5, which is already satisfied. Subamendment No 14 is intended to move part of the provisions to another article of the Environmental Code. Subject to the adoption of the two sub-amendments, I agree with Mr Leseul's proposal. Without insisting, we have some experience in this regard. In all places where a PPRT has been set up in consultation and involving the various actors, the culture of risk is very high. It is much more so than in places where no PPRT has been established, precisely because the stakeholders have been transparent and have sought, together, answers to the different situations. In Le Havre and Gonfreville-l'Orcher, of which I was mayor for twenty-five years, we invented an alert system called "alert box", inspired by the circumstances of the AZF accident in Toulouse. Those who experienced it remember: it was impossible to call after the explosion, all the networks were blocked; There was no more electricity to power the sirens, everything was destroyed. We invented an alert system based on an independent fibre optic network. Gonfreville-l'Orcher was the first city in France and Europe with such a system. It is the culture of risk that has enabled the population to invest in this project. All the industrialists in the territories where there is a real culture of risk will tell you: the industry is better accepted. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to a subject that falls within your portfolio, the ecological transition: hydrogen. It's all about hydrogen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u236	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u237	What will we do when we have to transport and, necessarily, store this new fuel anywhere in the territory? The acceptability of future tank constructions will require a transparent approach, a risk culture and the collective development of prevention plans. Without such an approach, we risk facing the rejection of the territories, which will say, "It's useful, but not at home." How many times do we hear that phrase? To avoid it, develop the culture of risk and the industrial approach. You have rejected the bill, but I will continue to defend it to the end because it does not oppose the industry, it defends the industrial tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u238	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u240	I agree with you on the need to build and strengthen the culture of risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u241	Prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u242	As I said in my introductory statement, the transmission of information and full-scale exercises are already prescribed by the Seveso 3 Directive, among other obligations in the field of public information. The Environmental Code requires regular exercises; their frequency has been included in the regulations: every year for Seveso sites high threshold, every three years for other industrial sites subject to the obligation to have an internal operating plan (OPI). A more general report on the culture of risk is being prepared; It's expected in the summer. Like all citizens, you will be kept informed of the conclusions that the Government wishes to draw, since we want the greatest transparency in this regard. A broader task of reshaping the risk culture is therefore at work and you are participating in it, which I thank you for. The demand for the transmission of information and the organisation of full-scale exercises seems to me already satisfied. I therefore call for Amendment No 5 to be withdrawn and, failing that, I would be against it. For the sake of consistency, I am in favour of sub-amendment No 13, since it is intended to delete part of the amendment to which I am against. Finally, I am against sub-amendment No 14, since it is not necessary to move an amendment which I do not think is useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u243	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendments Nos 6 and 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u244	They are not of the same nature, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u245	I know, but you'll be able to marry the chemicals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u246	The aim of Amendment No 6 is to introduce compulsory training for subcontractors on safety and the reflexes to be adopted in the event of a risk arising in the premises of a company. Taking into account second- or even third-tier subcontractors, for example, 92% of subcontractors are not trained in the operation of a fire extinguisher. Amendment No 3 has nothing to do with it: it is intended to go back to the proposal, which had seduced the rapporteur earlier...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u247	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u248	... extending the scope of the study of hazards to the impacts of climate change, in order to foster the adaptation and resilience of infrastructure to this change. It is in complete consistency with the law on the subject that will soon come back to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u249	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u251	I'm trying to negotiate with the Secretary of State, but she's hard on business! Personally, I am in favour of Amendment No 6, which the committee rejected. The Secretary of State will confirm this: the texts already provide for the trainings concerned. I knew a company in which there were seven levels of subcontracting; Not three, seven! On the seventh level, it will not surprise you, the French language was not spoken. In your opinion, was the law fully enforced in the company? I'm not making any accusations, but it wasn't clear. The employees of the company themselves felt at risk. Machines have been installed to broadcast films in different languages. Employees of subcontractors entering the plant chose their language and accessed a few minutes' video of the risks to which they were exposed. So there was information – still happy! The concept of training is more demanding, it imposes behaviours and requires checking whether the person trained has understood, what the machine that broadcasts the film does not do. Although training is enshrined in the law, those living in the areas concerned have been able to measure that this is not always a sufficient guarantee. I am not sure that, during their checks, the DREAL services go so far as to check with the employees that they have received training. However, this is an essential element of security at these sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u253	The framework exists. The Labour Code largely regulates this subject, as the post-Lubrizol texts have provided additional information and clarifications. The Ministerial Decrees of 26 September 2020 thus refer to "different operators and stakeholders in the establishment, including staff of external enterprises, [who] receive training on the risks of installations, the conduct to be carried out in the event of an incident or accident and, if they contribute to it, on the implementation of the means of intervention. Your request is therefore met. She didn't really seem to me to be a member of the law. In any event, the appeal is heard. With regard to malice, I refer you to the Code of Internal Security. As regards the consideration of the impacts of climate change, the aim of the hazard study is already to examine possible accident scenarios, to assess their acceptability with regard to risks, and to define measures to control urbanization if necessary. The effects of climate change may occur indirectly. For example, as a result of a major flood, we will need to ensure that stream-side facilities take into account the new reference flood. Indirectly, climate change – which is not an impact as such – and everything that can result from it are already taken into account in the diagrams. The amendment is therefore satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u254	On Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 11 and on the whole proposal for a law, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u255	It is based on the reality of the facts. As I explained, the industry involved in the text – port operators, railways, river ports in particular – are developing hazard studies. The latter are deterministic in nature: they trace circles and, according to a major scenario, extend to the largest circle, the one that corresponds to the most serious disaster possible, with effects on urban planning. On the other hand, PPRTs draw patatoids, depending on the probability. This provision of the Bachelot Act has thus been an important development for French legislation. It was also an argument to back the proposed legislation to the PPRTs. Instead, we chose to rely on deterministic hazard studies, with their lovely circle, in which people live and artisans work. Within the circle, it is no longer possible to densify the population: a craftsman who has fifteen employees cannot therefore hire ten people – it is boring for employment; the inhabitants cannot enlarge their house to accommodate new children. The study of the dangers made, the prefect to the knowledge of the mayor, who no longer authorizes additional construction, but without the knowledge of the persons concerned of the reason, to what risks they are exposed to, or how to protect themselves from it. For example, a PPRT specifies that you are exposed to such overpressure, a chemical gas leak, that to protect you, you need to create a containment room. There, people are told that they are in a danger zone, point. The aim of the amendment is to require state services to supplement the information of residents by defining the danger and explaining how to protect themselves from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u257	Once again, we share your concern. The Government commissioned Frédéric Courant to report on "Improving and modernizing information and consultation tools". It is being developed and will be delivered to us this summer. I do not question in any way the relevance of your inquiries concerning the tools to be defined, as the title of the report shows. Nevertheless, you know the timetable, I do not want to prejudge the conclusions of the mission. We will probably have other opportunities to discuss these tools in detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u258	We're Parliament, we can still legislate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u259	It will therefore be a request for withdrawal, failing which it will be an unfavourable opinion. For the same reasons, the opinion on Amendment No 10 will be the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u260	You should ask for the reserve of votes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u261	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u262	You say that this will be dealt with in a report that has not yet been submitted to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u263	It's in the title!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u264	That's good, but we know what will happen. I have already quoted the 2003 report: as far as dangerous materials are concerned, 18 years after its publication, the legislation has not changed. The title of the future report shows in any case that the measure I propose does not run counter to your intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u265	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u266	By approving to inform people of the danger, including how to protect themselves, you give a sign of the possible legislative consequences of the report. Indeed, we have no visibility on the timetable in this respect. In the rule of law, however, the prefects transmit to the mayors the studies of dangers and bring them to the knowledge, with consequences for the populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u267	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u268	There is a document, the DICRIM, whose purpose is precisely to inform the inhabitants of the municipality, through the mayor, of the natural and technological risks to which they are exposed. It seems to me that this satisfies your request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u269	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u270	Thank you for your intervention. I had to check whether hazard studies were necessarily included in DICRIMs. That's not the case. A mayor must rely on a minimum of documentation to report a danger in a DICRIM or communal backup document (DCS) and bring it to the public's attention. However, this documentation is not transmitted to him. I've been told that it's enough for him to specifically ask for it. But the prefect can pass it on when he makes a report! Yet he doesn't. After the storm that hit the Atlantic coast in 2010, it was discovered that not all municipalities had developed SDCs and DICRIMs. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this area. The municipalities that have a PPRT have a DICRIM – that's why we relied on PPRT. But the mayors of the communes, who have only to bring them to their knowledge, do not have the same reflexes. It is therefore necessary to take a further step: that is the meaning of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u271	I put to the vote Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u272	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 20 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u273	The next one will be adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u274	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u275	It aims to empower the prefect, or sub-prefect, who will have to organize a meeting with elected officials and residents if a hazard study reveals risks. The least that can be done is to inform by this means, rather than pass on a report to the public through administrative channels. The aim is to improve relationships and develop the culture of risk, since the State services present alongside the Prefect will provide arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u276	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u277	Perhaps you will reply that the framework exists but does not apply, this debate will then be an opportunity to stress it: the CODERST, which brings together the Prefect, representatives of the State services, representatives of local and regional authorities as well as of consumer and environmental protection associations, is the place where to discuss possible technological difficulties by involving the population. Once again, it seems to me that the amendment is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u278	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u279	[[Rires on the benches of the GDR group]] I have sat for many years at the Seine-Maritime CODERST, I have attended all the meetings, the prefect will confirm it, and I have never heard of sites for the transport of dangerous materials. In the department are however the port of Le Havre and that of Rouen and the yard stations of Sotteville-lès-Rouen and Le Havre in particular. So either no problems have been encountered, or the subject does not count among those examined in CODERST. I don't think the Secretary of State will contradict me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u280	You're not in his place!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u281	I put Amendment No. 10 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u282	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 20 Against 36
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u283	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u284	The committee did not adopt it either. It is intended to include hazard studies related to ITMDs, carried out under the Environmental Code, in the technical studies that accompany them. They are added because we have not been able to include them in the PRTRs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u286	Hazard studies are very technical documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u287	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u288	We improve stakeholder information on the findings of the hazard study. In addition, the possible urban planning control measures associated with the conclusions of the hazard studies are transmitted to the competent local and regional authorities, which can therefore take them into account when revising the urban planning documents – this is the whole purpose of the report to the public. Since the amendment was satisfied, the opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u289	I put to the vote Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u290	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 59 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 22 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u291	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u292	It is intended to subject the storage of ammonium nitrate to a reporting regime in order to prevent risks. Ammonium nitrate is the nitrogen fertilizer that causes AZF accidents in Toulouse and Beirut. The regulation of this fertilizer is lax; The classification thresholds and the means allocated to inspectors do not allow for the protection or control of sites, in fact dangerous, where they are stored. Sites with stocks of 250 tonnes or less of ammonium nitrate are not subject to any environmental standard or reporting regime. However, the volume of ammonium nitrate that exploded in Toulouse in 2001 between 20 and 120 tonnes met this standard. In Belgium, for example, sites are regulated and inspected from a stock equivalent to 300 kilograms. Thus, the smallest warehouses are never inspected and can under-declare their goods, as was the case with Normandy Logistics, at the origin of the fire in Lubrizol.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u294	The idea of the amendment is very good, although its application is a little more complicated. It must be remembered that this product was considered inert and non-hazardous for months – even years – in Toulouse. For years, we've been looking for what blew up this stock, and I'm not sure we found it. More recently, the explosion of the same product blew up the entire port of Beirut. On two occasions, this supposedly inert and safe ammonium nitrate, which was not specifically studied as a chemical, caused an explosion. Considering that the quantity of product stored could be the source of the problem and of the seriousness of the situation, it seems interesting to me to distribute the storage. The committee has rejected the amendment, but I personally find it very relevant. Even if the Government's opinion is unfavorable, the State services that listen to us today will feel that we may need to work on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u295	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u296	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u298	As drafted, the amendment could be less so than the legislation in force: from a quantitative threshold defined in the Environmental Code, stocks are governed by the Seveso Directive and subject to an authorisation regime. You propose that everything be subject to reporting, which would be less burdensome for large stocks. I also imagine that this is an appeal amendment since it refers to storage when the text deals with the transit of dangerous materials. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u299	Since the National Assembly had rejected the single article and the amendments to the additional article, the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u300	Most of all, she doesn't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u301	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a directive on the management and repair of the consequences of French nuclear tests (No 3966, 4237).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u302	I call Mr Moetai Brotherson, rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u303	It is with some emotion that I take the floor today, because, speaking in the gallery of our Assembly, I am thinking of those whose lives have been forever shaken by the conduct of nuclear tests. I am thinking of the Algerians who saw the first clouds cleared by the tests called Gerboise blue, white, red and green rise in the sky of Reggane. Thus described, it may seem poetic, but everyone knows that these colors were deadly. Algerian soil was also dug into the Hoggar massif for the 12 underground tests that followed. Of course, I am thinking of the Polynesians who had to undergo 196 nuclear tests, including 46 atmospheric tests. Between 1966 and 1974, during the first eight years of operation of the Pacific Experimental Centre (CEP), Polynesia endured the equivalent of 800 Hiroshima times. Finally, I am thinking of all the Metropolitans, called or not, civilian and military personnel of the Ministry of Defence, who left the flower with the rifle or almost, participate in the great work of France, and who came back wounded, wounded, when they did not die from it. They're all dear to my heart. The bill before us today is dedicated to them and their families. Its objectives are simple. Article 1 proposes the establishment of a committee to develop a programme for the clean-up, treatment, remediation and management of nuclear testing sites, as well as the materials and wastes generated by these tests. The consideration of the environmental impact of tests and the identification of means of responding to them have become all the more necessary since environmental consequences have been recognised at the highest level of the State. How could it have been otherwise? Most of you probably never had the chance to go to Polynesia. I wish I could take you there. You would thus realize for yourself the state of Moruroa's atoll about which the question is not whether it will collapse but when it will do so. In addition, underground firing zones, used for nuclear testing, still contain various fission and radioactive products. Two wells, one kilometre long, were dug to store radioactive waste. In total, more than 570 tonnes of radioactive waste are present in Moruroa. The so-called Colette Bank alone houses several kilos of plutonium in the Moruroa lagoon. Would you accept such a situation in the Arcachon Basin, the Gulf of Morbihan or the Thau Pond? I don't believe it. It is true that Polynesia is in the antipodes of Paris. So... I wrote to the President of the Republic to tell him how urgent it was to undertake an ambitious project to remove and reprocess all radioactive waste and residues from the Moruroa nuclear tests and, more broadly, to clean up the former nuclear testing sites. The task of drawing up such a project would be precisely that of the committee which I propose to set up. While Article 1 of the draft law constitutes the environmental pillar, Article 2 of the draft law is the health pillar. We propose to amend and supplement the provisions of the Act of 5 January 2010 on the recognition and compensation of victims of French nuclear tests, known as the Morin Act. The Act, which has the merit of existing, established the Committee for the Compensation of Nuclear Test Victims (CIVEN) and paved the way for the recognition and compensation of these victims. After decades of contempt, lies and even violence, the state admitted that the trials had not been as clean as it had always claimed. Yet the situation is far from satisfactory. Note that a total of only 500 people have been compensated, including some 60 Polynesians, while the impact assessment attached to the draft law on the repair of the health consequences of French nuclear tests, which became the Morin law, estimated that almost 150,000 people had participated in the nuclear tests, not to mention the civilian populations who were exposed to ionizing radiation. What a failure! What a disappointment! What a betrayal! Let us not look at it: it is not the few legislative changes introduced in recent years that will make a real difference. This is sometimes the opposite because fluctuations in compensation criteria have ended up convincing victims of the State's unwillingness to assume its responsibilities. So what do we suggest? First of all, we propose to allow victims who have survived a radiation-induced disease to benefit from state support for past and future medical expenses – which is possible in the current state of law but so far from being systematic! Secondly, we want to put an end to a ubiquitous situation: it is the Fund for Social Security (CPS) in Polynesia that covers the medical costs incurred for the treatment of radiation-induced diseases. In other words, for Polynesians, it is the double penalty: suffering from radiation-induced diseases, as a result of nuclear tests conducted without their consent, they must also ensure that they take care of their treatment with the CPS which they are alone to finance. Thirdly, we hope that the transgenerational nature of the health impact of nuclear tests will finally be recognised. Such a change in the legal framework is necessary as it becomes increasingly certain that an individual's exposure to ionizing radiation can have health consequences on his or her offspring. Fourthly, we propose to recognize the existence of indirect victims of nuclear tests, paving the way for compensation for their material or moral damage. We have too often neglected the consequences of nuclear testing on the spouses, children or parents of direct victims. This recognition exists in all compensation schemes, except those relating to nuclear victims. Fifthly, we call for the abolition of the possibility of reversing the presumption of the link between exposure to ionizing radiation and the appearance of a radiation-induced disease. The aim is to restore the existing legal framework between the removal of negligible risk and the original 2019 Finance Act. At present, the presumption of causation enjoyed by the applicants may be reversed by the ICVEN if it considers that the annual dose of ionizing radiation due to the French nuclear tests received by the applicant has been less than 1 millisievert. I was five years old when the Centaure test cloud – one of the six air tests that did not take place in accordance with the plan of the Office of the Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy Commissioner (AEC) – flew over Tahiti Island and the Under-Vent Islands on July 17, 1974. However, the survey recently published by the investigation media Disclose shows that the entire Polynesian population was exposed to doses greater than 1 millisievert in this single Centaure trial. Why maintain such a threshold? Before concluding, it is impossible for me not to say a word about the context in which we are debating today. My proposals are the result of long months of work and exchanges in Polynesia, in metropolis or abroad with associative actors, researchers, experts, victims and their representatives. They seem to me to be balanced, to meet expectations and to usefully fill the loopholes of the law in force. They have been reinforced by recent work. I am thinking of the collective expertise of the National Institute of Health and Medical Research (INSERM), published last year, of which I have heard some of the authors. If I do not agree with some of their conclusions, I note that we find ourselves at the level of exposure to Polynesian populations. I am thinking above all of Toxique: Survey of French nuclear tests in Polynesia, a book published in March this year by Disclose. The authors of this book reveal the many flaws – at least! – assessments of the consequences of nuclear tests by the Ministry of Defence and the CEA. They also point to the malfunctions of the ICVEN and the compensation of victims. This investigation caused such a disturbance that the President of the Republic announced the organization of a high-level round table on the consequences of nuclear testing. And the presence among us of two eminent ministers – Florence Parly and Olivier Véran – bears witness, I believe, to both the importance of this issue and the government's discomfort in dealing with it. I know that some of the majority will take refuge behind this next round table to refuse to discuss the substance. I also know that, as in committee, some of you – sitting on all benches – will support the bill. You are right: it is the result of a broad consultation process; most of what could be proposed at the end of this famous round table is already contained in the text now submitted to your review – it is at least the prerequisite, rather than the antithesis. Colleagues, what would be the position of our assembly if the trials had taken place in Beauvais, Laval, Versailles, Niort or Mesnil-Esnard? In this assembly tonight, we are only three to know Eugene Tekurare. For more than fifty years, he alerted the dangers of nuclear tests and called for their consequences to be considered with due respect and seriousness. For years, with Henri Hiro, Oscar Temaru and so many others, he was called a madman, a terrorist, an enemy of the state. Eugene Tekurare died yesterday, after a long fight against the disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u304	[[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] From where he is, do not doubt, with Bengt Danielsson, Eni Faleomavaega, Bruno Barillot, John Doom, Roland Oldham, the stillborn children of the Gambier Islands and so many others, he observes our debates. At the end of these, each of us will be faced with his conscience. Mauruuru e aroha ia rahi.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u305	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u306	France is one of the few military powers to possess nuclear weapons; This is what makes it an independent nation, respected throughout the world, able to defend its people, its territory, to carry its voice, and to contribute to the maintenance of the balances that underpin peace. This deterrent force, which is France's pride, we owe it to French Polynesia. Between 1966 and 1996, the State carried out 193 nuclear tests, 41 of which were atmospheric tests, and, despite the strictest safety instructions, some radiological fallout occurred in various areas of Polynesia. The debate sparked by recent publications on the consequences of nuclear testing is a positive sign for our democracy. It reinforces my ministry's commitment to work for the treatment of the consequences of nuclear tests in connection with the representatives of the Polynesians, elected representatives and associations. As soon as the tests were completed, France took the decision to dismantle the CEP facilities irreversibly. We have been the only State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to have taken such a decision and to have ensured that it is implemented. France thus plays a leading role in promoting the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Our country also requested an independent radiological expertise that involved experts of 20 nationalities, between 1996 and 1998, under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations. This expertise has highlighted very low concentrations of residual radioactive material, attributable to nuclear tests, considered to be of no radiological impact. Despite these reassuring conclusions, France has been anxious to continue closely the radiological and geological monitoring of the atolls of Moruroa and Fangataufa to inform the Polynesian authorities and the public on an annual basis. In 2006, the Ministry of Defence provided the authorities of the country with details of disposals off Moruroa, as well as an inventory of waste placed in drums. These documents are now freely available on the Internet. Since 2015, an information commission at the former nuclear testing sites in the Pacific has brought together the authorities of the state, the country and representatives of the Polynesian society to share, in full transparency, the findings of radiological and geomechanical monitoring of the consequences of the tests. Moreover, as you know, Mr.Member, the geological monitoring system was modernised in 2018, for a total amount of 135 million euros. Successive governments paid the greatest attention to monitoring the 150,000 civilian and military personnel and the Polynesians involved in nuclear testing between 1966 and 1996. In 2010, the Morin Act translated the recognition of the nation by creating a compensation procedure followed by the ICVEN. In 2014, the compensation zone was extended to all French Polynesia for the period from 2 July 1966 to 31 December 1998. Initially, the Morin law laid down the principle of causality between radiation-induced diseases and nuclear tests, but introduced the notion of "negligible risk". The Law of 28 February 2017 on Programming for Real Equality Overseas and Other Provisions in Social and Economic Matters, known as EROM, abolished this concept and reaffirmed the principle of causality, thus making a significant change in the criteria for compensation. Anyone present in Polynesia during the trial period and suffering from radiation-induced pathology is now compensated. In keeping with these developments, an amendment to the 2019 Finance Bill, an amendment by Senator Lana Tetuanui, which I welcome, was passed to set the maximum allowable threshold for exposure to nuclear activities at 1 millisievert. By the agreement of the Élysée for the development of French Polynesia of March 2017, the State solemnly recognized the contribution of French Polynesia to the creation of its nuclear deterrent force and the consequences of the experiments that it was important to deal with. History and memory are built only in a calm manner. Thus the State and the country are working to create a memory centre that will present all the implications of the CEP's presence on Polynesian territory. In the 2019 Finance Act, Parliament set out the principle of a free transfer from the state to the country of the land right of way necessary for the project – I had committed myself to it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the same spirit, the President of the Republic responded favourably to President Fritsch's request to organize a round table on the overall impacts of nuclear testing in French Polynesia, the responses and the paths of potential progress. This round table, which will take place on 1 and 2 July, will involve all relevant stakeholders. I have no doubt that it gives rise to very positive conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u307	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u308	I say it with sincerity but also seriousness, Mr.Brotherson, this bill pursues an honourable objective in the light of the legitimate expectations of the Polynesians. We agree with your desire to improve access to the compensation procedure for nuclear test victims in French Polynesia. Considerable progress has, I believe, been made in recent years; They must continue. However, it seems to us that the amendments that you intend to make to the Morin Act of 2010 do not provide the appropriate answers in this regard. Some of them do not have a sufficient scientific base, which weakens their very foundations. Others question criteria that have helped to strengthen compensation for victims in the past. In particular, your text proposes to remove the 1 millisievert dose limit, even though the introduction of this exposure threshold has significantly increased the number of cases actually compensated, while ensuring that an operational device is maintained. Your bill seeks compensation for the victims of transgenerational diseases. The scientific studies at our disposal do not make it possible to establish the link between the exposure of a victim to ionizing radiation and the development of pathologies by his progeny. The independent collective expertise conducted by INSERM from 2014 to 2021 on the consequences of French nuclear tests in French Polynesia considers that the available studies on transgenerational effects are inconclusive. This position is shared by all scientific studies on the subject. I am thinking in particular of the work carried out in 2001 by the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Study of the Effects of Ionizing Radiation (UNSCEAR), as well as the 2007 report of the IRSN, the Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety, which concluded that no diseases or hereditary effects induced by ionizing radiation had been demonstrated in a human population exposed to these radiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u309	Tell that to the people of Hiroshima!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u310	I'm talking about transgenerational effects, Mr. Member. However, it seems necessary and urgent to develop and sustain a system of health surveillance of non-infectious diseases, as well as a register of cancers, in line with national and international standards. That is why the minister of armies, Florence Parly, and I have entrusted the mission of the IRSN to carry out a careful and rigorous watch of the international scientific literature on the problem of the effects of low doses of ionizing radiation – special attention will be paid to the development of certain cancers, cardiovascular diseases, and the possible effects on the offspring. New work by the United Nations Scientific Committee is also under way, and we will monitor the results closely. If a study were to show a transgenerational effect, we would naturally draw the consequences for the recognition system, as we have done in the past with regard to the enlargement of the list of radio-induced diseases. With regard to the compensation of indirect victims for the damage suffered, the current system is based on a liability regime based on national solidarity and not a liability regime based on fault. As a result, the beneficiaries are not entitled to own compensation. However, they may already seek compensation for their moral damage on the basis of the common law of liability, provided that they demonstrate a causal link between damage and exposure to ionizing radiation during nuclear tests. Access to the compensation procedure managed by the ICVEN is a major issue to which we are particularly sensitive. We must work to ensure that everyone has access to this procedure by improving the quality of the information available, but also by facilitating the filing of files. We will address this vital issue in the coming weeks with a Polynesian delegation. The text you are proposing also removes the threshold of 1 millisievert per year beyond which a presumption of causality is recognized. This threshold must not be called into question. On the one hand, this extremely low dose is the result of an international consensus based on the opinion of the above-mentioned United Nations Committee, but also on the recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection. This level of permissible dose is taken up by all international organisations, such as WHO, IAEA, the International Labour Organisation or Euratom, the European Atomic Energy Community. I repeat, this level is very low in terms of the regulatory limit values for workers exposed to ionizing radiation. Removing this threshold would lead, on the other hand, to a systematic recognition of all prescribed radiation-induced diseases, with the presumption of causality becoming irrefragable in practice. Such recognition without the possibility of reversing the presumption of causality where the risk is negligible had been introduced by the EROM law. It led, I recall, to the resignation of five of the eight members of CIVEN, who had found their presence on this committee unnecessary. The existence of this limit dose does not prevent the ICVEN from considering claims under a presumption regime. The committee can only rule out the presumption of causality if it proves that the victims have not been exposed to radiation greater than 1 millisievert. Finally, the introduction of this new exposure assessment methodology has significantly increased the number of claims for compensation. Thus, almost 50% of the files filed are now subject to compensation, while the rate was between 2% and 7% between 2010 and 2017, and 94% of the applications for recognition filed by the population residing in French Polynesia that were the subject of a favourable decision were submitted between 2018 and 2020. The adoption by the ICVEN of a new compensation scheme in June 2020 also led to more favourable compensation, not only in view of the nature of the pathology, but also in view of the victims' feelings about the scalability of the disease. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We have reached a balance that will allow fair compensation to be paid to the victims. It would be detrimental in terms of justice and the efficiency of the procedure. We are aware that improvements can be made to the system, in particular with regard to access to rights, information for people, epidemiological monitoring and health cooperation. This is the subject of the round tables scheduled for the beginning of July with a Polynesian delegation, which will allow all the topics to be discussed with the scientific community and representatives of the international authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u311	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1310.u312	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the taking over and reparation of the consequences of French nuclear tests; Discussion of the proposal for a law on emergency measures for intermittent employment; Discussion of the proposal for a European resolution on the recognition of an "energy exception" within the European Union. The meeting is adjourned.
