ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of the agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism (No. 4620, 4714).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u3	The bill that you will be considering this morning aims to ratify the agreement signed in Brussels on 27 January 2021 by eighteen euro area Member States and then by Estonia on 8 February. It revises the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM. This revision is fully in line with the plan to deepen economic and monetary union, to which a new impetus was given by the President of the Republic during his speech by the Sorbonne on 26 September 2017. Four years later, significant progress was made in the implementation of this ambitious programme through a work of conviction and intensive negotiation efforts with the European institutions and partners. We do not intend to stick to this, because a lot of work remains to be done, but we can already see with great satisfaction that the foundations of a more resilient, integrated and supportive euro area are now laid. Among the concrete advances I would like to mention the mechanism to support expenditure on partial unemployment in the Member States, which was quickly set up in May 2020 to deal with the crisis, as well as the Next Generation EU joint debt scheme to finance investment and reforms of the recovery plans of the Member States. These measures demonstrate effective and proactive European coordination in the face of the crisis and solidarity between Member States. Secondly, the revision of the Treaty establishing the ESM also marks the achievement of a French ambition: to strengthen and complement the second pillar of the banking union. It corresponds to the single resolution mechanism, which aims to ensure that bank failures are managed effectively by States and generate as little cost as possible to our public finances. For this purpose, the revised Treaty establishes a financial support scheme, says backstop...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u4	Backstop? What's it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u5	... or "safety net" to the European Banking Resolution Authority. In concrete terms, this mechanism takes the form of a line of credit from the ESM to the Single Resolution Council (SRC), the European agency in charge of banking resolution. The Single Resolution Council already has the resources available through the Single Resolution Fund (SRF). The backstop system will complement these resources: it is therefore a valuable tool for strengthening the credibility of our institutions in managing financial crises. I would like to take the time to present this point in more detail. The Single Resolution Fund was established in 2014 as part of the Banking Union. It is now supported by contributions from the banking sectors of the participating States, with the aim of reaching its target size by 2024, which corresponds to 1% of total bank deposits. Its operation is simple: in the event that the involvement of shareholders and creditors is not sufficient to cover the full cost of resolving a bank in difficulty, the FRU may commit some of its credits to ensure the smooth running of the process and thus preserve the financial stability of the euro area. With the revision of the ESM Treaty, if the resources of the ERF are insufficient, the Single Resolution Council will now be able to apply as a last resort for an ESM loan under the backstop. This loan may amount to up to EUR 68 billion, which is close to the target size of the RUF. In other words, the bill that I am introducing today allows nothing less than doubling the financial resources available for the Single Resolution Council: it is therefore a considerable step forward. However, this loan does not constitute a blank cheque. The revised Treaty provides that decisions on this loan from the European Stability Mechanism to the Single Resolution Council will, in general, be approved unanimously by the Board of Directors of the European Stability Mechanism, composed of the 19 Directors of the Treasury of the euro area States. To repay this loan, the Single Resolution Council will raise ex post contributions on banks of the Banking Union, so that this loan will ultimately be budget neutral for the European Stability Mechanism and its shareholders, the euro area Member States. In any case, if the backstop is intended to be used only in exceptional situations, its mere existence is such as to reassure the markets. It avoids contagion effects of difficulties confined to one or a few banks. In addition, the revision of the Treaty clarified the definition of the European Stability Mechanism's traditional tasks with regard to financial assistance to euro area States. That is the third point I would like to address before you. The new version of the Treaty significantly improves the effectiveness and attractiveness of so-called precautionary instruments for States with sound economic fundamentals but which need targeted and ad hoc assistance to overcome a temporary difficulty or a limited shock. In doing so, it allows them to escape the introduction of a comprehensive macroeconomic adjustment programme if the crisis becomes more serious. In concrete terms, in order to have access to one of the two precautionary instruments of the European Stability Mechanism, the State in question will no longer need to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the European Commission including binding commitments on the implementation of structural reforms. It shall only issue a letter of intent in which it undertakes to comply, at any time, with the conditions attached to the use of the precautionary credit line. In particular, this new procedure will ensure that the State receiving assistance from the European Stability Mechanism effectively complies with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and that it does not present excessive macroeconomic imbalance. In addition, the reform clarifies the mandate and role of the European Stability Mechanism vis-à-vis the European Commission in the preparation, implementation and monitoring of financial assistance programmes. Finally, the euro area states will introduce single-threshold collective action clauses into their sovereign obligations in 2022. These clauses aim to make public debt restructuring, when it occurs, more predictable and orderly. Thus, thanks to the new treaty, a small minority group of bondholders will no longer be able to take a debt restructuring hostage in the hope of getting better treatment for themselves. The treaty that the Government proposes to ratify today is therefore an important milestone in the political deepening of the economic integration of the euro area. This text, negotiated by the Franco-German couple, will be an asset in the management of future economic and financial crises. This is obviously not the end of the road. The Government remains fully mobilized to continue work to complete the Economic and Monetary Union, including its banking component, the Banking Union, so that the expected benefits can be realized, including in terms of integration. As you have understood, the Government calls on the National Assembly to adopt this bill to ratify the Treaty amending the European Stability Mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u6	[[Smile]] No applause, it smells like the end of the reign!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u7	[[Smile]] Something had to be done, Mr. Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u8	Little enthusiasm, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u9	Mrs Brigitte Liso, alternate Mr Christophe Di Pompeo, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u10	First of all, I would like to welcome the work of the rapporteur, Christophe Di Pompeo, who was unable to attend today. We are considering the draft law authorizing the ratification of the agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, signed on 27 January and 8 February 2021 by France and the other eighteen euro area Member States. This is a major step towards deepening economic and monetary union, which will strengthen the resilience of the euro area and its crisis management framework. I will first explain the reasons for this amendment to the original Treaty, before explaining the main progress of this Agreement. In the early 2010s, in response to the sovereign debt crises that had shaken the euro area, two major developments were decided: on the one hand, the ESM, created to quickly extinguish the fire and support Member States facing difficulties; on the other hand, the Banking Union, which aims to cut the link between national public finances and the banking crisis by making European banks jointly and severally responsible for the response to a banking crisis, by setting up a joint fund financed by contributions from banks: the Single Resolution Fund, created in 2016. With a lending capacity of EUR 500 billion, the ESM has played its full role as a financial support instrument for States, aimed at restoring market confidence. Since its inception, it has assisted three countries – Greece, Spain and Cyprus – totalling €89 billion. No aid programmes have been committed since 2015, which demonstrates the stability of the euro area. In this regard, the non-use of the ESM since 2015 does not mean that it has not been useful, since its mission is to prevent crises by reassuring markets on the strength of the euro area. However, the current system suffers from several defects. First, it's not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u11	For the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u12	In the event of a bank's bankruptcy, the Single Resolution Fund, financed by the banks themselves, currently has EUR 52 billion, with a target of 1% of deposits, i.e. EUR 75 billion by 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u13	It would take 300 to 500!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u14	This amount would not be sufficient today in the event of a major crisis in the banking system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u15	And it will be the citizens who will have to put their hands in the pocket!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u16	As a last resort, it would thus fall to the ESM, therefore to the States...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u17	So to the citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u18	... to recapitalise the credit institutions concerned: the link between the banking system and national public finances is therefore not completely cut.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u19	So you agree with Jean-Paul Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u20	He will speak immediately after me, he will be able to speak... Then it has perverse effects. The intrusive and stigmatizing nature of the reforms required to obtain the assistance of the ESM, painfully experienced by Greece, could have had a deterrent effect and tarnish the image of the ESM. The ESM is therefore an urgent, long-term mechanism that needs to be reformed in the light of the lessons learned from its first years of existence. The amendments to the Treaty deal with four main points. First, there was a need to move completely from a logic of State responsibility to a system of bank responsibility, concretizing the original objective of establishing a sovereign debt and banking sector leakproofness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u21	We stopped in the middle of the ford!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u22	This is the purpose of the introduction of a safety net...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u23	With big holes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u24	...principal advance of the agreement. In concrete terms, if needs exceed the availability of the FRF, the ESM will be able to lend up to EUR 68 billion to the Single Resolution Council, the European agency responsible for the resolution of credit institutions, which represents almost a doubling of the resources available to respond to a banking crisis. This intervention is strictly regulated, since the ESM only intervenes on a temporary and subsidiary basis, as a last resort and after ascertaining the ERM's ability to repay the amounts lent, in accordance with the principle of budgetary neutrality in the medium term. The amounts raised by the ESM and lent to the CRU shall then be reimbursed by the CRU through ex-post contributions from the banking sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u25	Secondly, in order to avoid the overly intrusive and stigmatizing nature of ESM aid, the agreement introduces a new tool: the credit line with conditions. The conditions for granting them will be relaxed, but the conditions for eligibility will be strengthened: States that request them will no longer have to sign a memorandum of understanding but will have to meet ex ante criteria to ensure that their macroeconomic and financial situation is sound. Thirdly, the agreement makes governance changes aimed at strengthening the competence and independence of the ESM. The aim is to maintain the Mechanism as an intergovernmental mechanism and to clarify its position vis-à-vis the European institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u26	That's nowhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u27	Fourthly, in order to reduce the risk that a minority group of recalcitrant creditors would oppose the restructuring of a state's public debt in the hope of obtaining better terms for repayment, a new voting rule was introduced: the application of a simple majority instead of a qualified majority. Moreover, the negotiation no longer covers each issue line, it is global. Like Senator Jean-Marie Mizzon, rapporteur for the text in the Senate, I would like to draw attention to three points. The first is the entry into force of the safety net. The States Parties agreed to early implementation on 1 January 2022, but since the law authorizing the ratification of the Agreement by Germany is currently being appealed to the Federal Constitutional Court, the date of entry into force could be postponed. This action should not, however, call into question the operative part, since the Karlsruhe Court had already rejected a similar action relating to the original treaty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u28	Beautiful independence of justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u29	The second point relates to the complexity of the governance of the safety net, which is the result of a compromise between the States parties. Decisions are taken unanimously by the Governing Council but, at the request of France in particular, an emergency procedure has been introduced in order to move to a qualified majority of 85% in the event of a threat to the economic and financial viability of the euro area. However, this procedure can only be used twice, and its application will then be suspended until the euro area economic and financial ministers decide unanimously to reactivate it, if necessary by increasing the voting threshold applicable. The third point concerns the arrangements for the ex post contribution of the European banks to the repayment of the ESM. The French banking sector, which is characterised by the presence of large institutions and is the largest contributor to the FRU, considers that this option should only be mobilised where it is established that the resolute bank cannot repay the liquidity support obtained. The flexibility provided for in the agreement should therefore be used to adjust precisely the ex post contributions required from banks. Colleagues, 2022 will be a great moment for the deepening of the banking union, defended by the President of the Republic, especially since the Sorbonne speech of September 2017. Let us hope that the European Union will be able to take advantage of this momentum to continue to advance economic and monetary union and to complete the framework for crisis management on a solid and solid basis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and on the benches of the commissions]] The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u30	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u31	Since the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, the only reference to the European Stability Mechanism has brought together the entire imagination of an ultraliberal, technocratic European Union that does not hesitate to use violence against the peoples of Europe. The European Stability Mechanism is a reminder of brutality against peoples and unparalleled flexibility towards the financial system. On the people's side, budgetary and wage rigor; on the banks side, unlimited loans and absolute freedom. It is time to ask ourselves questions about the sustainability of a system that makes citizens the ultimate insurers of this crazy capitalism. The European Stability Mechanism is a financial institution that can raise funds on financial markets up to EUR 700 billion to help states in difficulty – under conditions! – and to participate in rescues from private banks. Created in several stages at the height of the European financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis between 2008 and 2011, it initially constituted an emergency fund aimed at redeeming debts and borrowing money from the financial markets. In haste, a major omission, perhaps voluntary, has taken place: this organization was not created as a financial institution of the European Union and is not governed by European Union law. The European Stability Mechanism is completely independent and has no subordination link with the European Parliament or any other institution of the European Union such as the European Court of Auditors or the Court of Justice of the European Union. Since its inception, this institution has been marked by the seal of ultraliberalism: it has been bottled with the so-called independence of the economy from politics; It has full legal immunity and even democratic immunity, so dear to the European institutions that prefer to stand as far away from the people as possible. During the sovereign debt crisis, the European Stability Mechanism helped five countries – Greece, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Cyprus – totalling EUR 300 billion; the right was in the Government at that time and the deputies who are part of it could have confirmed my words if they were present this morning. Of course, it can be said that helping these countries has been a good idea and even a good thing. But for what social cost? The remedy proposed by this institution was worse than the initial evil. The violence of austerity cures has profoundly destabilised the states and societies that have benefited from the European Stability Mechanism. Poverty has exploded while pensions have declined, as has the salaries of civil servants. Social assistance has been planed indecently, and unemployment has worsened. As evidence, Greece had lost 20% of GDP in 2017 compared to 2008, and its public debt has increased to 200% of GDP today. Greeks suffer unemployment of almost 20% and a VAT rate of 24%; The average wage has fallen by 22 points, the average standard of living is now equivalent to that of Romania and an emigration movement which has already seen 300,000 of them go. I don't even count suicides, or deaths related to hospital closures. Because, yes, austerity cures have disastrous physical and social effects. The European Stability Mechanism's loans enslaved a whole people, to whom it was necessary to get rid of because they had tried to emancipate themselves from the sacred criteria of Maastricht. How can I imagine reviving a country with this recipe? That doesn't make any sense. Yet budgetary and austere obsessions are still widespread in political programmes. After seeing this violence towards the Greeks, then towards the Spanish and Italians, after having been betrayed in 2005 by the adoption of the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union yet rejected by referendum – I always look to my right because they are a little responsible – the peoples are extremely distrustful of the European institutions. For it is a question of trust: what credit is given to these opaque institutions? That is the profound reason for this motion of rejection. How can we build a common political project in confidence if the Member States cannot choose either their budgetary policy or the levers associated with it? In 2012, during the discussions on the European Stability Mechanism held here, I said the following: a stability fund "could have been the first step in a process of convergence aimed at harmonising the fiscal and social conditions of economic activity, and courageously tackling the dictatorship of finance. On the contrary, you have decided to make this fund an instrument to promote ever more authoritarian and intransigent economic governance." I then had ten minutes of speaking time in the general discussion to explain things in detail. Today, as we have only five more, I am obliged to resort to a motion of rejection in order to make the arguments of the Communist Members heard. In 2012, it was a technocratic despotism that communist deputies feared, the same despotism that would hit Greece three years later, in the summer of 2015. The reform of the European Stability Mechanism we are talking about today is directly related to this story, because just after the Greek debt crisis, the European authorities wanted to improve this institution. The aim was to make it a European monetary fund by strengthening its economic powers, integrating it into Community law and applying the criteria for monitoring the European institutions. In the face of strong opposition in some EU Member States, this ambition has been greatly reduced: changes in governance and the strengthening of the tasks of the European Stability Mechanism are superficial. The text we are looking at is the result of a complete lack of political ambition. That is why the Communist MEPs propose that you oppose this reform. We have rejected the European Stability Mechanism as soon as it is established, and today we reject, in coherence, these cosmetic changes. There is no change: there is nothing about a legal connection to the European Union that would put an end to the institution's total independence, nothing about its internal functioning, nothing about the European Parliament's control, nothing about the end of conditional loans. This so-called reform does not alter the independence of the European Stability Mechanism from the European Union. It simply adds the European Parliament to the list of institutions receiving the annual report of the Committee of Auditors of the European Stability Mechanism. Great democratic progression: who is being mocked? Its internal functioning, which resembles that of a multinational, should have undergone profound changes. Communist MPs are against this philosophy of multilateralism, which gives rights based on the share of capital invested in the institution. The European Stability Mechanism shall have shareholders and the voting rights of the Member States shall correspond to their shares in the capital of that institution. Thus, Germany has 27% of the shares and therefore of the votes; France about 20%; and Italy 18%. These three countries have an absolute majority and can therefore block everything as they see fit. Germany, the dominant, is essential when it comes to taking decisions on the European Stability Mechanism. With the rules of majority, nothing can be done without her. I hope that each of you realizes that the European Union cannot function by being so cut off from its peoples. Worse, this reform reinforces the role of the MES Director General, an unknown technocrat but overpowering as there are too many in Europe! His powers will grow. It will have a role in assessing and monitoring the economic and financial situation of the euro area states. How can we accept that the power of a non-democratic institution is thus strengthened? Against this gross manoeuvre, as early as 2011, when the Stability Pact was being discussed, the Communist Group and the parliamentary group Die Linke in the Bundestag had made a joint proposal for a European resolution "on the establishment of a European social, solidarity and ecological development fund". Our group had used its niche to discuss this text the same day in both assemblies. Against technocratic Europe, as early as 2011, we had shown the importance of a European fund to finance public projects to create and secure jobs, develop training and research and protect the environment. In addition, we have focused on the majority participation of Member States in the capital of European banks in order to reorient the activity of these institutions towards the financing of the economy and ecology. The idea of a majority state shareholding in the capital of banks resonates with this reform of the European Stability Mechanism, since this is a matter of creating a public support fund for the private support fund. At the end of the day, it is therefore the citizens of Europe who will be holding hands in the event of a financial and banking crisis. Further reason for States to take shares in these banks from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u32	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u33	This private fund, the Single Resolution Fund, is totally underfunded by the banks, everyone agrees on this point. Through this reform, you demonstrate the usefulness of the communist idea of nationalizing banks, since you propose the creation of a public emergency fund to bail out a fund abounded by the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u34	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u35	It's your way of nationalizing without saying it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u36	They're communists who don't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u37	It would be better to control bank decisions, hence the importance of nationalisation. So listen to this: "We do not accept this corporalised federalism which, under the guise of budgetary rigour, gradually deprives the peoples of their sovereign control and organizes the control of the governments of Europe. I regret that, but these words spoken ten years ago in this same rostrum by our colleague Jean-Pierre Brard are still relevant. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In line with our opposition to the Stability Pact, and then to the European Stability Mechanism, and in total opposition to the political project of a Union serving the financial markets exclusively, the Communist MEPs strongly oppose this reform and propose that you reject this text, in order to force our states to correct the situation. By adopting this motion of prior rejection, you would do a useful job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u38	[[Smile]] I'll let you enjoy Mr. Jumel's applause...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u39	This contrasts with the silence of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u40	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u41	Following the intervention of our excellent colleague, I would like to clarify what seemed to me in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be the spirit of those who, in the majority, approved the ratification of the agreement. Mr. Lecoq relied on a double argument, saying that the project was perverse, and that he was too shy. I believe that the vast majority of the committee would not join him in denouncing the perverse nature of a mechanism that strengthens the protection of States and taxpayers, while increasing the responsibility of the banking system. As far as the timidity of the project is concerned, it must be recognised that all those who have worked for years to build the European Union are constantly frustrated, because we never do enough. This mechanism is perfect, of course, but we would like it to be more ambitious, more comprehensive and offer more guarantees. This is how the European Union is built: perhaps our glasses are never full, but we drink a series of glasses half full.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u42	[[Smile]] You're gonna end up drinking the cup!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u43	This is the case with the project before us, which is a huge step forward. [[Laughs on several benches. – Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] What I believe explains the committee's vote is that it is better to vote on this Mechanism with the three guarantees it provides than to reject it. As Mr. Lecoq has said, if he has tabled a motion to reject, it is not for the text to be rejected, but for the opportunity to speak – and we were pleased to hear it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u44	In the general debate, Mr Sébastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u45	[[Smile on the benches of the commissions]] Jean-Louis Bourlanges rejuvenated me by rejuvenating my dear grandmother's formula, which said, "It's less worse than if it were better. In doing so, he was very unenthusiastic about defending Europe's liberal vision – but I will come back to that. In one sentence, Jean-Paul Lecoq summarized the thinking of the group of the Democratic and Republican Left by evoking a Mechanism of Stability of unheard-of brutality against the peoples and an unparalleled flexibility towards the financial system. The text before us further reinforces this logic, that of an institution not at the service of the peoples, of progress and of solidarity, but at the service of the financial system and of the banking system. Most of the many measures envisaged are reforms of the mechanism; They were put forward as part of the motion to reject, and I will not go back to that. The ESM's main innovation is the introduction of a banking component to serve the Facility, with a EUR 68 billion bank support fund. Beyond the somewhat indecent aspect of this proposal in the current period, we must look back at the genesis of European banking regulation in order to grasp the ingenuity of this reform. In 2008, following the subprime crisis, the states bailed out most European banks with billions of public money to avoid a collapse of the banking system. A debate then begins: should the rescue of the banking system, however necessary it may be to preserve the savings of citizens, be carried out on public funds, even though the crisis was caused by the voracious appetite of those who make money while sleeping? Faced with the indignation of the people, the European Union then created the Single Resolution Fund, abounded by the banks themselves to address a possible new problem of bank solvency. For the moment, this was a good idea, which we welcomed: the banks themselves took care of the risks they were taking. The scheme could even encourage them to engage in more responsible conduct – when you are their own insurer, you tend to do less stupid things. The problem is that the Fund has only EUR 75 billion, i.e. 1% of the deposits covered, and is therefore clearly insufficient in the event of a systemic crisis. Rather than instructing banks to increase their contribution and thus to increase the RUF, the European Union imagines a new mechanism consisting, if the RUF is insufficient, of having banks financed directly by the European Stability Mechanism, i.e. by public funds – that is, ultimately by the taxpayer, as Jean-Paul Lecoq said. To make it simple, the present reform proposes to create a public fund that would support a private fund, which had itself been created to avoid public funds having to bail out banks... it looks like a sketch by Raymond Devos! What a find! You may think that in a few years you will invent the private fund that will come to support the public fund, which itself will support the private fund... Finally, it is not certain, because with you, when you have to bear losses, it is always the public that has to take care of it: you privatize profits, but you mutualize losses. As usual, this issue is dealt with backwards. Safeguarding the banking system is an essential issue, not because it is a means for some bankers to get rich, but because it involves saving the French and the means of payment: it is therefore the duty of the public authorities to act in this area. However, it must not do so in the manner of an insurer who will insure the losses once they are found, but by acting upstream to regulate, regulate, control, prevent, and increase the solvency of banks. Now, what is the status of banking regulation in Europe? Little progress has been made since the 2008 crisis. The Basel III agreements, which were already largely insufficient as they were confined to so-called microprudential measures, i.e. focused on the individual supervision of banks, seem to be at a standstill. Macroeconomic measures aimed at controlling the banking sector empirically, or even limiting the size of banks, are already excluded. In addition, our Assembly has found nothing better than to vote, at the initiative of the right, absent today, and by the majority, it is presenting a resolution calling for the minimum application of this agreement to preserve the interest of banks and lobbyists, which is an absolute shame for us. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] With this reform, we come back to the situation before 2008, i.e. the same level of regulation, with the public authority as an insurer of last resort. You will tell us that the reform is the realization of the banking union, but that does not change the case: we have simply replaced national public funds with European public funds. In these circumstances, you will understand that we are voting against this text, as my friend Jean-Paul Lecoq said very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u46	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u47	Let us recall the financial crisis of 2017, the sovereign debt crisis of 2010. Global markets have wavered, and our institutions with it. How long the crisis has been! The storm in which we found ourselves appeared endless. At European Union level, it has led to an unpacking of disagreements and has shown a staggering lack of coordination between our States. Some States rejected the principle of partial mutualization of debts and made any aid conditional on a heavy austerity cure. Like Greece, Spain or Portugal, the most indebted states then experienced an unprecedented economic crisis. As a result of these negotiations, it was even the whole euro area that was at risk, and that is why the European Union has finally created emergency arrangements. In 2012, these arrangements merged to create the European Stability Mechanism, a fully-fledged financial institution governed by international law. At the time, the challenge was clear: to provide financial assistance to euro area Member States whose debt no longer appeared sustainable, in order to limit the spread of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote for a reform of the European Stability Mechanism. Why this reform? In June 2018, the Franco-German meeting in Meseberg concluded with the need to deepen the Mechanism. In order to clarify its operation, the final declaration envisages improving the evaluation mechanisms, enhancing the effectiveness of the precautionary instruments and finally creating a safety net. The European Stability Mechanism is a tool of solidarity, which should be complemented to ensure its effectiveness. France has largely taken the initiative on this point and the fact that the reform can be operational by 2022 is objectively a reason for satisfaction. In reviewing this ratification bill, I would like to reiterate the value of the new protections. In the face of external shocks, they reduce the fragility of our sovereign debt and avoid the risks of vicious circles between financial crises and sovereign debt crises. Thus, in an emergency, the Single Resolution Council will be able to rely on the funds of the ESM – this is the famous safety net. Of course, the aim is also to avoid that in the event of a serious financial crisis leading to the weakening of a bank, the taxpayer is called upon to help the banks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u48	He will be!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u49	It is an anti-seismic patch, which will allow in case of shock to contain the effects and above all to protect the deposits of citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u50	The solution would be to nationalize the banks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u51	This new version of the MES allows us to gain resilience. Moreover, in the event of a renegotiation of the debt, the reform introduces a new voting rule: from 1 January 2022 onwards, the vote will be by a simple majority rather than by a qualified majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u52	Germany, France, Italy are the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u53	Renegotiation will be global, not line-by-line, which is a protection against vultures creditors: this will prevent them from creating a blocking minority on one or more bond lines. With regard to its financing, the European Stability Mechanism has a lending capacity of EUR 500 billion, based on a capital of EUR 700 billion. More specifically, there is EUR 80 billion of paid-up capital, i.e. actually paid-up by the Member States of the ESM, i.e. 620 billion of callable capital. In addition, the inclusion of the safety net will make it possible to mobilise these funds for the benefit of the Single Resolution Council, amounting to EUR 68 billion. But let us remain attentive to the evolution of our public finances, because for more than fifty years the debt of our states has grown and it is important to gradually return to greater prudence in public finances. Finally, the strengthening of the European financial framework is the image of a Europe in the midst of change: more solidarity against more information sharing; we offer ourselves guarantees, and at the same time we clarify the criteria for access. This reform secures the legal framework and broadens the protection offered. We can, I believe, be proud of the progress we have made and our trajectory reflects a strengthening of European solidarity. We empower ourselves to act and protect our fellow citizens. With this reform, the European Stability Mechanism is becoming even more part of the European landscape. We are consolidating our union, and that is excellent news. (Applause from the committee benches.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u54	[[Smile]] Little applause, Mrs. Le Peih!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u55	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u56	European Stability Mechanism, what a funny name! To explain the association of these three words, it takes a little history. From an old history, first of all: in 2009, when 2008 upset the world economy, Europeans struggled to agree on a common management of the crisis. States are retreating to themselves, taking the necessary measures to stabilize their economies, their markets and even to rescue their banks, without concern for solidarity. This unilateral management is the result of debt trajectories so different that there is a new crisis, that of sovereign debts, the consequences of which we know not only for the countries in question but also, contrary to what has been said, for their people. In order to prevent the same causes from producing the same effects and, above all, to anticipate future crises, the euro area countries wanted to develop mechanisms that would ensure greater stability for the euro area. From this will in 2012 the ESM was born, which, in the form of an intergovernmental treaty linking the nineteen euro-area states, makes it possible to mobilise resources within a common debt fund. Since its establishment, this instrument has proved to be very useful in preventing any further failure of one of the States concerned. A bit of recent history, then: in September 2017, in his speech by the Sorbonne, the President of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u57	Glory to you, Emmanuel! Hosanna!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u58	[[Smile]] ... our perfect President of the Republic, I said, reaffirmed the French ambition to deepen Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). As a result, the European Commission published a package of measures to recast EMU, thus deciding to reform the ESM. Finally, on 27 January and 8 February 2021, the euro area states signed an agreement to amend the Treaty establishing the ESM. As you all said, this remains a compromise. We would have preferred to go further, but this compromise is nevertheless an obvious step forward. Let us come to the present, that is to say, the content of the agreement. As mentioned above, it essentially foresees four developments: the creation of a safety net for the Single Resolution Fund; reform of precautionary financial assistance instruments; strengthening the competence and independence of the ESM; a new voting rule in situations of restructuring a state's debt. I'll focus on the first one. The main contribution of the revision of the Treaty lies in providing the FRU with a safety net, which is called a backstop in the banking world. This will help to cut the link between the banking system and public finances, a goal that states have sought to achieve since the euro area crisis in the early 2010s. In concrete terms, in case of needs that exceed the availability of the FRF, the ESM will be able to lend to the Single Resolution Council – the European authority responsible for the resolution of credit institutions, whose importance has only grown over the last ten years – up to EUR 68 billion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u59	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u60	...which represents almost doubling the resources available in the event of a new banking crisis. As for the rest of the agreement, I will not dwell on it, preferring to share some personal considerations with you. I repeat, if the revision of the Treaty does not make it perfect – a treaty is never perfect...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u61	Perfect for banks, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u62	It is a step forward. The ESM thus guarantees the economic stability of states with strong fundamentals and eases the conditions for the use of precautionary instruments. We are pleased to see the progress made by the members of the euro area over the last few decades. Today, the economic and financial system must be reassured. However, even without success, banking reforms in recent years have played a key role in preventing a serious economic crisis from being added to the health crisis of 2020. Economic and monetary union has proved its usefulness: without it, we would not already be recovering! After flying over the past and the present, let us look to the future. By 2020, precisely, I had devoted an information report to the stability of the European banking system. The report, which called for the creation of a safety net for the FRU, concluded that the banking union needed to be completed. Two components of these must be completed: the re-insurance of the deposit guarantee, on which I hope other negotiations, and the union of capital markets, because the stability of the states – that of the European Union – depends both on the economy and on the finances, which are themselves closely linked. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Agir ens groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] In spite of all this, Mr.Minister Delegate, as history repeats itself, we have had to urgently establish a budget and joint borrowings, and in the future we will probably go further and faster. In the meantime, let us rebuild and consolidate the European Stability Mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u63	I remind speakers that their speaking time is not indicative: when they have five minutes, they must stick to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u64	[[Smile]] There is a margin, Mr. Chairman, since there was no explanation of vote on the motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u65	Yes, I would have needed a motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u66	Too bad there's no approval motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u67	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u68	In June 2012, the banking system crisis was followed by the sovereign debt crisis, which threatened by contagion to implode the euro area, and the European Council decided to put an end to this chain by providing the European Union with a mechanism for banking supervision, arrangements for orderly resolution of bank failures and financial safety nets. The European Stability Mechanism was established, by intergovernmental agreement, to manage the problems of refinancing the debts of the euro area Member States in times of crisis. By avoiding the risks of speculation, reassuring investors, it has proved essential to the stability of the area. However, its financial assistance remained subject to the draconian requirements of the European fiscal pact; Fortunately, its application was suspended from the beginning of the health crisis and the resulting economic and financial turbulence, the principles on which it was based having been considered counterproductive in this emergency situation, even though some countries were already in difficulty. The European Union has therefore been able, on this occasion, to provide itself with the means to overcome the risks of destabilization by removing the budgetary rules that were previously claimed to be unsurpassable. The European Central Bank's (ECB) 750 billion emergency plan and the European Recovery Plan were in addition to the ESM's unconditional loans, a common unemployment reinsurance mechanism, the suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact and the conditions for granting State aid. Combining flexibility and solidarity, Member States have mobilised all their financial capacities and placed investment at the heart of their economic policies for crisis management and post-crisis recovery. In order to take account of this new situation, the revision of the ESM was necessary. The Socialist and Related Group takes note of the main advances contained in the agreement: making the ESM a financial support mechanism, a safety net; give it the possibility of granting, as a preventive measure, a precautionary line of credit to signatory States with sound economic fundamentals; strengthen its powers and independence from the European Commission; facilitate the restructuring of a state's debt by introducing collective action clauses. However, this progress does not prevent criticism from being made. The use of ESM in aid programmes is mostly subject to the negotiation of Memoranda of Understanding providing for structural reforms in return for this aid. The granting of a precautionary credit line is so strict that it could prevent the majority of the States concerned from benefiting from this scheme. Finally, there are no procedures for democratic scrutiny of the ESM, nor for parliamentary scrutiny, whether under the European Parliament or the national parliaments. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In conclusion, this instrument remains too imperfect to be effective and therefore desirable. Its revision did not allow any real reform to take place. Therefore, the members of the Socialist and related group will abstain from voting on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u69	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u70	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u71	A stronger Europe is stronger Europeans. As such, the ESM is an important example of what we can do better. It was more than a decade ago: in the euro area, the 2008 financial crisis had gradually turned into a sovereign debt crisis. The European Union was discovering itself at the mercy of financial markets, divided and unable to react. In the rush, starting in June 2010, and then more systematically starting in October 2012, together, we created a powerful tool to preserve the stability of our banks and ensure the viability of our financial systems. The ESM acts by lending funds to a Member State to help it recapitalise a credit institution: for example, between 2012 and 2013, 100 billion were made available to Spain, which thus saved its banks, proof of the effectiveness of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u72	What a price!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u73	Since its creation, it has assisted five countries – Greece, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Cyprus – for a total of nearly 300 billion, with repayments spread until 2070. Half of the Greek debt to date is held by the ESM and its predecessor, the European Financial Stability Fund. Nevertheless, this process had a flaw: it did not allow the link between public finances and banks to be broken, i.e. to exclude citizens from being used to preserve the banking system – this is the problem raised by Mr Lecoq. By operating this dissociation, the agreement achieves the objective set since the euro area crisis, reducing the risk of a vicious circle between financial crisis and sovereign debt crisis. More broadly, this revision of the Treaty strengthens the resilience of the euro area and the crisis management framework. By endorsing it, we will improve the effectiveness of the precautionary instruments for the zone states, create a safety net for the Single Resolution Fund, increase the independence of the European Stability Mechanism, and endorse a fairer, more balanced voting rule in cases of debt restructuring. The Group of the European People's Party wishes to acknowledge the role of France as the driving force behind European cooperation. As early as June 2018, as part of the Meseberg Declaration, jointly with Germany, it set the stage for the agreement we are considering in the ratification bill. It is also up to us to get out of the budget orthodoxy and the sacrosanct 3% government deficit rule, based on a curious unwritten principle – "a debate of another century," declared the President of the Republic at The Economist in 2019. We need to invest more, especially for our African partners, as evidenced by the recent Global Gateway strategy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u74	Global Gateway, what is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u75	... European response to the New Chinese Silk Routes. The European Union can no longer be content with being a privileged spectator of the matches played by China, the United States and Russia, particularly in Africa. The end of an orthodoxy that hindered our action will allow us to enter the arena.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u76	If you'd listened to the communists!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u77	[[Applause on the banks of the Dem Group and on the panel of committees]] In three weeks' time, the French presidency of the Council of the European Union will begin, focusing on three ambitious notions: "relaunch, power, belonging". Less than two years after the beginning of the covid crisis in Europe, the consequences of which have not ended, it is up to us to form consensus between States in order to continue the restructuring of the European economy. Therefore, despite the need, in the long run, for control of the European Parliament, which was rightly pointed out to be lacking, the Action Group can only support the draft law, since its adoption is all the more necessary since the agreement, in order to enter into force, must have been ratified by each Member State of the ESM.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u78	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u79	We will celebrate next January 1st the twenty years of the arrival of the euro in our lives. For a long time, often mocked, the single currency has succeeded in establishing itself on the international stage by proving that it is reliable, robust and economically advantageous. While the oil shocks of the 1970s have created thirty years of inflation and competition between European currencies, the arrival of the euro has allowed our fellow citizens to experience a stability that is intended to be reassuring – stability to which everyone seems so accustomed today that we are now afraid of a price increase of a few percent, which was nevertheless current not so long ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u80	At the time, wages also increased!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u81	Nevertheless, even if the euro is an economic advance, it must be noted that our monetary union is incomplete. Without going into the details of the various economic theories, the absence of a common tax policy and of a sufficiently ambitious common European budget penalises our economy. The idea of a gradual approximation of the tax and social policies of the different European states has been the subject of a number of proposals by the IDU and independent group and several Members have taken part in missions on these subjects. The rapprochement must not be achieved by levelling down but, on the contrary, by retaining what is best done in the various European countries. I hope that these issues will be one of the priorities of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The European Stability Mechanism that we are revising today is ultimately only a terrible admission of failure: it underlines the European inability to carry out the construction of the euro and to take the step of real economic integration. Nevertheless, the modification of the Mechanism is rather good news, particularly with regard to the banking component. While many European states paid a high price to save their banks during the 2008 crisis, greater continental solidarity at that time would have saved us a few worries. I believe that too little is said of the term'solidarity' when it comes to European policy. Far from me the will to make angelism, but it would be time to explain to our French and European fellow citizens that we are all in the same boat and that, if we want our voice to be strong and heard from our friends – and nevertheless competitors – American or Chinese, in particular, we must speak together. It must also be borne in mind that neither Germany nor the other so-called frugal countries have changed their minds or wished to give gifts when they agreed in July 2020 to the principle of a common debt to combat the health crisis. A differentiated borrowing capacity of each country to revive its economy would ultimately have had more negative consequences and would have caused, above all, major political tensions. The financial crisis that accompanied the epidemic raises a very important question with regard to the European Stability Mechanism. In April 2020, at the height of the crisis, Italy refused to use the lines of credit that were at its disposal, for fear of the perceived weakness of the financial markets, but also for fear of the negative political use that could have been made of its approach. Unfortunately, this shows the weakness of the European Stability Mechanism, whose image was deeply undermined during the Greek debt crisis. Therefore, even if it is adapted to respond to a slight economic crisis in the euro area, this instrument is not designed to respond to a global crisis like the one we have experienced. Above all, it presents the failure to rely on an umpteenth loan which, although economically interesting, does not show solidarity as strong as a joint effort in the event of a shock. [[Applause on committee benches]] Even if I welcome the improvements made to this treaty, and even if my group will vote in favour of the bill to ratify the agreement, I will conclude by saying that Europe must, above all, have a budget for the euro area. An agreement in principle has already been reached between the Heads of State on this subject, but since the health crisis we have no more news. While the introduction of EU-specific tax resources would have allowed such a budget to abound, the agreement reached on the European Recovery Plan devotes these resources to the repayment of the loan it has contracted. It is therefore to be feared that the draft common budget will not be put into practice, even though it would be a more than logical follow-up to monetary union. But the German finance minister who had accepted the agreement in principle is now Chancellor, and France is preparing to take over the presidency of the Council of the European Union. The Government therefore has an unhoped-for window of fire to relaunch the budget proposal; I hope he can use it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u82	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u83	Is the euro area capable of solidarity? The European arrangements deployed in response to the 2010 sovereign debt crisis were intended to provide an answer to this question. However, the solutions brought about in the emergency have shown their deep flaws. Nearly ten years after its launch, the European Stability Mechanism therefore needed to be thoroughly revisited. Unfortunately, Europe has been fuelling an ambitious big project and finally retaining only a limited and, let's say, disappointing agreement. As was pointed out in committee, the creation of a European Solidarity Mechanism was primarily aimed at supporting certain Member States that needed liquidity in the face of the crisis and could no longer access markets. The revision of the agreement should enable us to take a new step towards real European solidarity and a better sharing of risks. However, the initial ambition of a European Monetary Fund has been ruled out by the negotiations. It is therefore a political failure; solidarity will remain confined to the euro area states alone, i.e. nineteen out of the twenty-six countries in the Union. Beyond this, the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes some progress towards strengthening the banking union. In this sense, the creation of the safety net, or backstop, will allow the ESM to lend up to EUR 68 billion to the Single Resolution Council. The ESM is evolving from a system of direct state responsibility to a system of direct bank responsibility. Our group welcomes this transfer of the taxpayer's burden to the banking sector. This mechanism recognizes the clear separation between sovereign debt and bank balance sheets. Our group would also like to stress the reform of the instruments of precautionary financial assistance which the ESM can use to accompany the Member States. I would point out that the previous arrangement was conditional on the signing of an agreement obliging the state in difficulty to carry out structural reforms with forced steps. These conditions were particularly unfair for States, such as Greece, which found themselves forced to accept the reforms imposed on them without their being associated with them. It was necessary to put an end to this regime. The new tool put in place is flexible – it has been recalled – since it simply provides for a letter of intent, but it remains accompanied by conditions. This is legitimate in itself, but, as always, the essence is in the details: the requesting State will have to attest to a sound macroeconomic and financial situation, which refers to the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact. This reference is more than surprising given that these criteria, forged in the 1990s, are considered obsolete; We therefore continue with the "at the same time". Bruno Le Maire, Minister for the Economy, Finance and Recovery, himself denounced in the Finance Committee the fact that the criterion of a 60% GDP ceiling for public debt was exceeded. It is regrettable to renovate the MES on the basis of outdated criteria which are theoretically intended to evolve, as Jean-Paul Lecoq recalled. Our group can only hope that the French presidency of the European Union will lead to their updating and that it will make it a priority. At the same time, while the Government has jointly concluded two agreements – one on the ESM, the other amending the Single Resolution Fund – our Assembly is considering only one. We take note of the provisions of Article 53 of the Constitution, which, of course, require the ratification of such agreements by Parliament only under certain conditions. However, these two agreements should be seen as inseparable. The agreement on the RUF must allow reimbursement of the use of the safety net provided by the ESM; In addition, the initial agreement had indeed been submitted to Parliament in 2015. The choice of the executive to submit only one agreement to us is therefore incomprehensible. We are obliged to pronounce ourselves by having only a partial view of the subject. This ultimately constitutes a new divestiture of Parliament – a practice that has become usual under this quinquennium. Finally, we are somewhat surprised by the date of implementation of the safety net, 1 January 2022. This leaves us barely more than twenty days – which explains the quick review of the text at the end of the year. The Senate reveals that only six states have already tabled a ratification text. Some have not always taken any steps, in particular Italy and Portugal. On the other hand, the German Constitutional Court has yet to give its green light to allow Germany to commit itself: all the legal obstacles that suggest that the process cannot be completed in such a short time. It would be regrettable to start the French presidency of the Union on a false note and a delay. If our group takes note of the progress made in the agreement, the reservations mentioned can only lead us to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u84	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u85	By asking us to authorise the ratification of the agreement signed at the beginning of 2021 by France and the other eighteen euro area Member States, amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, we are actually being asked nothing less than to resubmit ourselves to ordoliberalism, that is to say to the rules of free and undistorted competition, after the parenthesis of the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme (PEPP), which provided for the redemption of public debt by the European Central Bank. Recall that since the entry into force of the MES in 2012, Jean-Luc Mélenchon had sent a letter to the left-wing parliamentarians, then the majority, asking them to vote against the treaty that established it. Indeed, he considered – and we continue to do so – that the ESM was not a solidarity mechanism: as early as 2012, all financial assistance was conditional upon the signing of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance (TSCG) within Economic and Monetary Union, thus on rigorous plans implemented by the Commission, the ECB and, most of the time, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) – the troika. He noted the reluctance of the countries that were being offered to apply for assistance, which was synonymous with bleeding. The States which have accepted the use of this assistance have done so under pressure from the troika and rating agencies: my colleague Lecoq recalled Greece's example. Finally, Jean-Luc Mélenchon denounced an opaque institution, the archives and documents of the MES being exempt from any search, requisition, confiscation or seizure by an action of the executive, whether judicial, administrative or legislative, and all the employees, let us recall, being forced to professional secrecy, even after having left their duties. What's the status of this? The European Stability Mechanism has come to the aid of five countries – Greece, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Cyprus – but this has mostly caused disasters, namely the removal and auctioning of national assets. During the pandemic, the ESM opened a €240 billion credit line with a double condition: the money must be spent on health services, and the beneficiary countries must be subject to the budgetary control of the European Commission for everything that is not health-related. The result: Italy, the first country in difficulty, preferred not to use it – that is, if the conditions seemed interesting to it! The agreement amending the Treaty establishing the ESM is, in fact, intended to ease the conditions for the use of this mechanism for States with economic fundamentals considered to be sound. These changes do not touch on the essence: they contribute more broadly to the maintenance of European ordoliberalism, while the current situation, marked by the pandemic, calls for a profound reform of the TSCG, and therefore a break with the existing treaties. If the economies of the euro area did not collapse during the pandemic, it was not thanks to the European Stability Mechanism, but, in particular, thanks to the acquisition by the European Central Bank of all public debts issued during the crisis – this had been banned after the subprime crisis, the consequences of which we know. This was done within the framework of the EUR 1850 billion pandemic emergency purchasing programme, which completely changes the situation: now it is the central banks that own the debt. What are we now told – understand: what does the ECB say, this bank which, unfortunately, is independent of political powers? She suggested that the program would end in March 2022. On the contrary, we believe that these exceptional measures which have helped to cope with the crisis must be given a structural character, without which many countries will find themselves in difficulty once the crisis has passed, and the infernal circle of austerity plans will start again. Without a far-reaching reform of the TSCG – which still imposes a 3% annual deficit ceiling and 60% public debt in relation to GDP – austerity will return mechanically. You are also preparing it, since you are announcing by 2027, under a multi-year law, a reduction in public expenditure – more specifically, an increase of 0.7% which, in view of the increase in the standard of living of the population, will constitute a historic decrease for the Fifth Republic. Such a reform of the TSCG should be at the heart of the French Presidency of the European Union. In 2019, Emmanuel Macron had stated that the 3% annual deficit rule made no sense. He had also advocated Eurobonds: this project, officially supported by France, was based on a mutualisation of unconditional debts; We preferred recovery bonds, which are totally part of the TSCG. The French Presidency should be an opportunity to question the rules of submission to the TSCG; Unfortunately, that's not what Emmanuel Macron is about to do: it's going to put Emmanuel Macron at the disposal of the future candidate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u86	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u87	Since 1992 and the Maastricht Treaty, all the successive European texts and agreements have been only mechanisms of instability for our sovereignty. They had only one vocation and one objective: to accelerate federalism, and consequently to precipitate the weakening of nations. On 1 January, France will take over the presidency of the European Union – to be absolutely correct, Emmanuel Macron will take the virtual reins of the supranational structure that dictates its laws to our honorable, but now secondary, National Assembly. There is no doubt that this presidency of the European Union falls at a peak for the outgoing candidate, already in the campaign, but not yet declared. Jupiter is dreaming of the leadership of the European Olympia, taking advantage of the retirement of his former German governor, Angela Merkel! Since occupying his office at the Élysée, Emmanuel Macron has been the zealous spokesman for the Brussels technocracy, the servant of an unfortunate globalization for the peoples, but juicy for the uprooted elites. For him, France is finished, out of date, rinsard, stunted, just good for the break, ready to be melted in the European magma. Three days ago, on the occasion of the twenty-five years of the Jacques Delors Institute, President Macron expressed his true thoughts and wishes for Europe: a European people must emerge. A whole programme, which is summed up in one word, the dissolution: dissolving the French people to create another with waves of migration and a single government of substitution; debunk our national history to impose the myth of technocratic "living together"; deconstruct our identity, traditions and roots, with an inclusive communication, according to the recommendations of the European Commission, which intends to ban references to Christmas; torpedo our values and principles, with the funding by the Council of Europe of Islamic propaganda that dares to associate the veil with women's freedom. We repeat this again and again, European sovereignty and European citizenship are unicorns and dragons: they do not exist. In this context, the European Stability Mechanism, which is planned to be strengthened by this Agreement, is only one more corset for the euro area countries. It should be remembered that this mechanism was originally responsible for stealing from the countries in financial difficulty, in particular by buying their public debt and granting them loans, provided that they comply with the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union – that is, the golden rule imposed by Germany. On the pretext of benefiting from a service firefighter in the event of a serious economic crisis, this is no more than a loss of national control – the objective was admitted by Chancellor Merkel as early as 2012, when she warned that this stability union was foreshadowing a political union. Fundamentally, and in my view of democracy, it is inconceivable that treaties such as these with consequences for the future of our country can be ratified or modified without the approval of the sovereign people, that is, without holding a referendum. General de Gaulle said: "democracy is the government of the people exercising unhindered sovereignty".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u88	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u89	The right is ashamed. That's why she didn't speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u90	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u91	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of two bills authorizing the approval of international agreements (No 4280, 4756; 4323, 4757). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u92	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (No. 4406, 4721).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u93	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with amendment No. 278 on the additional article after section 56, which was considered as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u94	Amendment No 278 is not defended. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 1197.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u95	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u96	Mr Bruno Questel, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u97	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u98	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u99	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u100	The rapporteur's amendment No 2965 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u101	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 895.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u102	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u104	Article 6 applies only to voluntary bodies. In fact, if Mayotte does not want to be transferred the management of the national roads, this transfer will not take place. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u106	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u107	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u108	Mansour Kamardine is concerned about relations between the State and Mayotte. I understand the fear that he expressed in his amendment: we are indeed witnessing many movements of infrastructure, whose state is disposing of to bring them to bear on the communities. It is important to ensure that the State maintains its involvement in the territory of Mayotte. Your comments should reassure our colleague, but I do not allow myself to withdraw his amendment, as the Republicans pay close attention to the overseas countries, particularly in Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u109	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u110	I repeat: only voluntary communities will enter into the arrangements provided for in Article 6. If Mayotte is not voluntary, for whatever reason, the device will not apply. I would add that we are all paying attention to overseas – the Government and the presidential majority, as well as the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u111	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u112	I also want to reassure Mr. Kamardine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u113	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u114	[[Smile]] Don't worry, there are still some representatives of the Republican Group to defend the important amendments! My amendment aims to ensure the primacy of the communities already having jurisdiction over the road network, in the event of competing demands for the transfer of a road, made on the one hand by the region, on the other hand by a department, the metropolis of Lyon or a metropolis. The department is the competent community for road management and maintenance. It seems logical that in the event of competing demands between the region and the departments for the transfer of a national road, the community that already exercises this competence should take precedence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u116	Your amendment is intended to make the request of departments or metropolises prevail over that of the regions. I can understand your concern, but it seems to us that the situation must be dealt with on a case-by-case basis – that is the meaning of the agreement reached between the Assembly of the French Departments and the Regions of France on this matter. In the event of disagreement, the representative of the State shall decide. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u118	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u119	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u120	Fortunately Mayotte is an island department! Depending on your logic, some communities may, in one way or another, be forced to accept road transfers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u121	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u122	Yes, I do! Imagine a region that requires infrastructure transfers; the State will generally be in favour of such a request. But the capillary nature of the network is such that some departments, in order to maintain consistency in the management of their infrastructures and routes, will not be able to do anything other than request the transfer of roads. Indeed, if the equipment is already transferred, it is better to have a coherent approach throughout the territory. Departments that have not requested such a transfer will have to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u123	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u124	Of course I do! The transfer to the region will mechanically reverse the maps in some territories. The purpose of this amendment is to address this issue. I agree that we have to respond on a case-by-case basis, but we also need to maintain a logic of preserving itineraries and not just give primacy to the prefect of the region – because it is he who will decide and not the prefect of the department. Departments are not the least competent in road management and understanding of these issues. Although the regions will acquire new competence, they do not yet have the necessary services and expertise. Let's be careful. To the extent that road management, project porting and operation services already exist in the departments, let them take over when necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u125	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u126	These issues were the subject of meetings in the Prime Minister's office, between the Presidents of the Assembly of the French Departments (ADF) and the Association Régions de France (ARF). As you know, in Alsace, a road has already been transferred to local authorities: this transfer was carried out without difficulty, with sections that naturally returned to the metropolis and others to the new European community of Alsace. This has been done in consultation and, in accordance with the law, the authority in road matters rests with the departments, which have the equipment and the men to assume it. We are not questioning anything and there is clearly no question of re-establishing these services at the regional level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u127	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u128	The Alsatian example is interesting. Of course, the roads have been transferred to the European community of Alsace – these few kilometres of roads represent the only additional competence that this community has recovered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u129	Never happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u130	Let's move on to that. This transfer was carried out in advance of today's discussion. Let us imagine that after the passage of the 3DS bill, and that the Grand Est region defends, on the one hand, the idea that its traffic management logic revolves around three furrows – Rhine, Lorrain and Ardennes – and that it wishes to maintain an overall view of each of these furrows; Let us imagine that, on the other hand, the European community of Alsace puts forward a logic of consistency of traffic on a north-south axis, pointing to the competition between a departmental road and a national road which are parallel, etc. What reasoning would prevail? We do not know, as these reflections are equivalent in terms of planning: they respond to different, but worthless, logics and objectives. That is why I believe that it is the level which already knows how to manage roads and which has the expertise that must prevail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u131	The rapporteur's precise amendment No 2966 was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u132	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 3334 and 2967. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3334.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u133	It concerns the fate of road assets transferred to several communities. In order to fill a legal gap, it provides that, in the event of a lack of agreement between the communities concerned, ownership will automatically revert to the property with the most important line of channels transferred. The other communities concerned will be compensated in proportion to the market value of the goods, in proportion to the linear line of the routes transferred.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u134	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2967.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u135	I withdraw it for the benefit of the Government, for which I express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u136	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1213, 2171 and 2388, to delete the article. I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1213.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u137	It is intended to delete Article 7 for reasons which have been widely debated in committee; Our arguments are based primarily on the legibility of community road authority. The situation is already complex: our fellow citizens find it difficult to find themselves there between the roads which belong to the commune, the department or those which have been granted. The departments are the most well-known in terms of the exploitation of their road sector. That is why we believe it is necessary, in the name of a requirement of clarity and simplification, to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u138	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 2171.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u139	For the same reasons as those set out above, we call for the abolition of the experiment provided for in Article 7. I look forward to hearing the arguments of the rapporteur and the minister before I may take the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u140	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to support Amendment No. 2388.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u141	We also propose the deletion of Article 7, which aims to allow voluntary regions to exercise on an experimental basis, for eight years, the competence to develop and manage national roads and motorways which are not granted. This measure is, of course, in line with the new powers entrusted to the regions with regard to mobility and spatial planning, but, as in the previous article, we can only be opposed to this form of disengagement of the State, which undermines the uniqueness of the national network and territorial equality in a context, as you will admit, of the deterioration of the national road network. This deterioration raises questions about the ability of certain regions to cope with and assume these new skills – unless they are entrusted to private managers, which we obviously reject. We cannot subscribe to such developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u143	Unfavorable opinion. This measure is consistent. Some regions also call for this responsibility to be delegated to them. The drafting of articles 6 and 7 has been improved in committee; the Government has placed around the table the representatives of the departments and regions of France in order to find the appropriate mechanism, which is proposed to you to adopt. The aim is to ensure a good link between decentralization to the departments and the provision of certain routes to the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u145	I would point out that under the State-Region Plan (CPER) contracts, it is common for regions to finance parts of road equipment. No one can say anything about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u146	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u147	The purpose of this bill is to achieve better road conditions throughout the country, in order to meet the expectations of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u148	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u149	I take advantage of the mention made by the Minister of State-Region Plan Contracts and the contribution of the regions to the financing of state infrastructure...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u150	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u151	Yes, Mr. Questel! When the region finances a national road under a State-region plan contract, it pays for a state infrastructure. It's objective, it's not questionable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u152	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u153	We will discuss at a later stage the need to allow the reverse movement, once the infrastructure has been transferred to the regions: the state now finances its own infrastructure through local authorities; It will have to commit itself, in future plan contracts, to financing the infrastructure which will now fall under the latter. The logic is reversed and we need to make sure that these funds will exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u154	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u155	This is a national land use issue. We can see clearly your systematic logic of decentralization, which is to unload the state: it undoes it on the communities which, each time, realize that they do not have the means to make the necessary investments, especially on the portions of unlicensed motorways. We are discussing how to entrust portions of roads or highways to communities that, in any case, do not already have sufficient resources – you are making sure that they do not, in any case, get into debt or invest, I am referring you to contracts signed with communities and regions in particular. Instead, we should discuss how to restore train lines everywhere, develop rail freight in the country, or even renationalize motorways in order to end the financing of shareholders and the economic predation on a network activity that is now essential for the French to move on every day, whether to go to work or to go on holiday, since the date is approaching. At one point, it seemed to me that there was a commissioner of the plan or something in the government – we ended up forgetting it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u156	Search alerts! Therefore, your logic does not correspond to the issues and needs of general interest. As noted earlier, with the State-region plan contracts, the State no longer plays its role as a strategist and as a planning public authority across the country, resulting in inconsistencies or inconsistencies in the national plan for the organization of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u157	We wonder what happened to this mission. I regret this because we would need a network activity and a great national and democratic debate on what we intend to develop in terms of territorial grids, both in terms of road and rail transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u158	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u159	In addition to the arguments put forward by Raphaël Schellenberger, I would like to warn you, Madam Minister, that State-region plan contracts are being drafted, in which the road section no longer appears as it was in the past. However, deep expectations remain on sections that remain to be realized, in particular in order to create links between deeply landlocked territories which need to be connected. We live in two different regions – Raphaël Schellenberger is in Alsace, I in Lorraine. It remains on national road 4, near the commune of Blâmont, dear to Simone and Antoine Veil, a section of 7,8 kilometers highly accidentogenic and still undeveloped. The region – what Raphaël Schellenberger said on this point is interesting – is ready to invest 30% of the amount of work, while the departments of Moselle and Meurthe-et-Moselle are ready to invest 10% each. Local authorities are ready to pay half of the work: for a national road, it is considerable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u160	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u161	We hope that the state will be at the rendezvous because this road is very dangerous – there have again been accidents involving heavy goods vehicles, with drivers dead in their cabins.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u162	Amendment No 903 by Mr Mansour Kamardine is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u163	Disadvantaged for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u165	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u166	The rapporteur's precise amendment No 2968 was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u167	Amendment No 1896 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi, accepted by the committee, was accepted by the rapporteur. It is the subject of a sub-amendment, No 3451. The rapporteur has the floor to defend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u168	Sub-amendment No 3451 is precise. Subject to the adoption of this sub-amendment, I am in favour of Mrs Rossi's amendment, which improves the information provided to communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u169	The rapporteur's amendment No 2969 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u170	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor to support Amendment No. 650.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u171	It tends to coordinate certain elements of exploitation with a view to mutualisation. After the transfer of road services to the departments, there is a risk, in the context of the experiment, that a new service will be created by the regions in the same sectors. The amendment therefore seeks to incorporate, by writing it in the law, a supplementary agreement to the device you have proposed in connection with the experiment and intended, precisely, to encourage the experimentation of a possible pooling of common services in the field of road operation, maintenance and maintenance. It is therefore, I repeat, a matter of coordination and mutualisation in order to avoid that, as has happened in some municipalities and intercommunalities, two road services are responsible for the same sectors and intervene one after the other on roads that follow and are similar. I am the only signatory to this amendment, which I had to draft quickly. In fact, it seemed to me necessary to complete the proposed experimental convention, which would thus be better structured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u173	Unfortunately, I cannot give an opinion in favour of this amendment: it would be an injunction for departments and regions to pool, which, as you know, is not constitutional. So I'm asking for it to be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u175	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u176	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u177	If you had proposed correcting the amendment by writing "can" instead of "must", I would have accepted the compromise. I therefore do not withdraw the amendment because I believe it will have to be considered for the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u178	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u179	[[Smile]] Even if it only represents two votes this morning, the group The Republicans are in favour of Mr Jerretie's amendment. I would like to clarify the logic behind this amendment. We have all, indeed, fought against the law OUR, or law on the new territorial organization of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u180	It was voted, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u181	...which, instead of a stacking logic, has placed the communities in silo, so that each of them now runs in its own corridor and sometimes has difficulty in discussing with neighbouring communities. At least they each run in their own line, and not on the neighbor's line! However, this logic of transferring roads to the regions is not enough because two road operators, two operators, will operate on the same territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u182	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u183	Of course I do! On different axes, but on the same territory. The example of what is being built in Alsace with the transfer of national roads to the European community of Alsace, which already managed the roads, is interesting, because this formula allows to have a single operator and to go to the end of the logic of mutualisation by applying the same policy on all the roads that traverse a territory, while ensuring a better understanding of the management of these infrastructures on the part of the inhabitants. On the other hand, with what is proposed to us, when the route of a road which is the subject of a maintenance strategy will cause it to cross a road which is the subject of another maintenance strategy, operations as stupid as, for example, roadside mowing, renewal of the rolling layer or operation crossing the agglomeration could be treated in a very different way. Let us take a very hypothetical example: a commune crossed by both a departmental road and a road, currently national, which will be transferred to the community tomorrow will face two different management policies. On one of the axes, the dead animals will be picked up by the department; On the other hand, the region could refuse to do so and say that this is the responsibility of the municipality. Similarly, the department could clear one of the axes and the region could refuse, for the other axis, to do so in agglomeration. For these communes, this situation is already present in the relations between the departments and the State, and the transfer of roads to the region will not improve anything in this regard. Mr Jerretie's amendment, which seeks to reach agreement on certain common principles so that at least management is perceived by the citizen as more coherent, seems to me to be a good proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u184	The rapporteur's amendment No 2970 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u185	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2971.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u186	It seeks to legally secure the possibility of commissioning and swearing in agents in the region to allow them to make police violations of the public road estate, in particular with regard to encroachments on roads or theft of materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u187	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2972.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u188	It aims to clarify that, in the context of the transfer of cross-management between regions and departments, all police powers relating to road management – traffic and conservation – are transferred to the executive of the community concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u190	Well, of course, it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u191	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u192	Are police powers fully transferred to the president of the community who is recovering the infrastructure, and will this be the case for all axes? These two very simple questions require a precise answer. In fact, on one of the axes transferred to the European community of Alsace, police power remained at the prefect. I therefore do not understand this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u193	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u194	Mr Schellenberger, the case you are referring to is normal, because it is the motorway.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u195	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2389.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u196	In drafting this amendment, my friend Hubert Wulfranc probably had in mind the scar that may represent the eastern bypass of Rouen, especially in the popular cities of Oissel-sur-Seine and Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray. He is indeed concerned about the acceleration of the project that could result from the transfer to the region, because we know the region's willingness to discriminate against the most fragile territories of the Rouenne metropolis. However, I would like to broaden my thinking. I have already said that I am in favour of a strong state, a state that is developing, a state that does not get rid of the tools that allow balanced planning of the territory, such as national roads and railway lines, which constitute axes for the liberation of our people. As far as ports are concerned, I remember the time when the State broke down and transferred to the regions certain ports of national interest, including the port of Dieppe, because it did not fulfil its responsibilities and because at the time those ports were abandoned by the State. Since then, we have seized the subject and have tried to take measures to limit the breakage, in particular, with regard to Dieppe, in order to restore meaning to the Norman harbour complex, but the State has carried out these transfers without compensating them financially. As far as national roads are concerned, in addition to the precautions I have recalled, which are due, in particular, to the fact that a national road can, by definition, cross several regions, implying coordination, equalization, or at least a apprehension of infrastructure at the national level, I have the feeling that roads are being transferred without the corresponding financial mechanisms, and I am concerned about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u197	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u198	I'm asking to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u199	It's constitutional!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u200	I will quickly mention, because our speaking time is short, the situation of the national road 27 in my constituency: for thirty years, the Dieppois have been fighting to get the doubling of this RN27, vital in particular for the opening of the port,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u201	And it's in a deplorable state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u202	...but the project is in carafe. It was necessary to hold demonstrations, in 1994, with Christian Cuvilliez, to ask for the opening of the RN27. The day after my election as a Member of Parliament, I went to knock on the Prime Minister's door to ask him for the money that had been stolen from the RN27 to be assigned to the Mathilde Bridge in Rouen, which had been burned. I asked him to give us back the money to finish the RN27. The doubling of the section between Manéhouville and Tourville-sur-Arques is almost complete. It is 11 kilometers short to complete this doubling: on the occasion of the transfer of competence – to the department, I suppose, but without being certain, because the law leaves the possibility that this transfer will take place in the direction of the metropolis, the department or even, on an experimental basis, the region – will the state put the money necessary to complete these 11 kilometers? This example applies, of course, to all the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u203	This is a concern for a deletion amendment. I am, for my part, always very reserved when the State discharges itself of a responsibility, because this seems to me to conceal its will not to assume its responsibilities, particularly financial, in the financing of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u205	Mr Jumel, it is not possible to separate Article 8 from Articles 6 and 7. Its removal would weaken the complete structure of the mutation carried out by this transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u206	We also proposed to delete articles 6 and 7! We're consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u207	Oh, to delete everything, you're consistent, I know that. However, in view of the transfers and making available of the roads provided for in the two articles mentioned above, it is necessary to maintain Article 8 in order for the authorities concerned to be entrusted with the control of certain developments and works. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u209	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u210	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u211	Let us tell ourselves the truth: the state is completing a movement, which has been engaged for quite a long time now, which consists of ridding itself – I use this term on purpose – of national roads, which it considers as a burden, and not as an opportunity. In 2004, it had already transferred the bulk of its network and it is therefore possible to observe the results 15 years later. In terms of road maintenance, they were remarkable, and all departments demonstrated that they were more able than the State to maintain, and sometimes rehabilitate, roads. However, there were many large-scale projects in the pipeline that the State should have carried out and which fell into the water precisely because the local authorities no longer had the capacity to pay for them. This has, moreover, sometimes given rise to incredible scenarios of bargaining. Thus, in my department, there remains a very old project of bypassing the city of Teil – this is the national road 102. The investment was more than 70 million euros: the state had declared itself ready to bring 30 or 40 million, telling us to manage to get the rest. However, we have achieved this, thanks to the involvement of the region and a considerable effort by the department. However, in rural departments which, by default, will take the national roads that you will transfer to them, this will be the end of these large structural development operations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u212	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u213	I am quite dubious about transferring to the regions, because I do not understand what this brings. Nevertheless, I am totally opposed to the deletion of Article 8, which is probably the most interesting in terms of the logic that prevails here. We have seen, and I repeat Mr Hervé Saulignac's reasoning, that while the transfer decided in 2003 allowed for an exceptional catch-up in terms of maintenance, the new projects have been slowed down at the state level. If government infrastructure control had been given to communities longer ago, a number of projects could have been successfully completed more quickly through greater commitment and proximity. The question of the control of works is really what is blocking everywhere. I really think that Article 8 is interesting, and I invite the regions that are following our discussions perhaps to ask for control over new infrastructure because it is relevant, with great caution on operation and maintenance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u214	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u215	The proposed scheme responds to a request from the communities. As proof of this experience in the former Haute-Normandie region, which Mr. Jumel is familiar with. The department of Eure had plans to divert Pont-de-l'Arche and Gisors, two important cities, but did not have the money to do so. It is the region that financed these projects through the "contracts 276", which you have known.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u216	We took the money from the RN27 to put it on the RN31!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u217	You will see this with Mr. Saulignac who will pass on to his friends! In essence, my difficulty as Vice-President in charge of roads in the department concerned was that the region, which had no authority to act on the substance of the case, was limited to making financial transfers while wanting to be recognized as a fictitious project manager. The mechanisms proposed in Articles 6, 7 and 8 allow for greater readability and to render to each person his or her own responsibility for his or her involvement in the files.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u218	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u219	I did not have the opportunity to answer Mr Bazin's question earlier, and I am thinking about it by hearing what has just been said about regional funding. The mobility component will, as announced, be contracted out next fall. Negotiations are currently under way with the prefects to prepare this component in the State-region plan contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u220	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u221	I do not want to prolong the discussion, but this is very important at the local level. In the mobility contract, will the state be on the appointment at 50% for the closure of the 7.8 kilometres of the RN4?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u222	I cannot answer you on this specific point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u223	Amendment No 2973 by Mr Bruno Questel, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u224	Mr Hubert Wulfranc's deletion amendment No. 2390 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u225	Amendment No 2974 by Mr Bruno Questel, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u226	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u227	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u228	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 2391, which deletes Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u229	We call these lines of life which the inhabitants of living pools must borrow to go to care for themselves, to work, to train or to breathe the air of the sea – when we are lucky, like myself, to live on a beautiful coastline. These lines of life have gradually been abandoned by SNCF and by the State, to the point that the planning of the territory has not been at the rendezvous in railway matters, while the related climatic issues are major. Taking note of this inability to take care of all the territories, the State now proposes to transfer definitively to the regions the management of these lines and stations, which they have co-financed so far since they already had competence in transport matters. These lines and stations are gradually dehumanized. In Normandy, for example, there is no more controller on the trains – this is Hervé Morin's last find – and, in the stations, the counters were replaced by terminals. It is well known, however, that for older people and those who, for various reasons, are prevented, the " type 1, type 2, type 3" instruction often translates, if one speaks of access to rights, into "tick me". Basically, since you can't take care of life lines, you decide on a definitive transfer to the regions. However, the questions remain the same. What funding? What financial support for the communities? I also wonder how such a measure can apply to interregional lines. I will take the example of the Abbeville - Le Tréport line that connects the town of Picardie, at my friend Ruffin, at Ch'Tréport, north of my constituency, the city of which my alternate, Laurent Jacques, is the mayor. Xavier Bertrand said, in the last campaign of the regional elections, that he would take care of this lifeline. Since then, SNCF Network has struggled to produce studies and we are still in the pampa while, I repeat, this line is necessary to go to training, to heal, to work or to breathe the air of the sea. This amendment to abolish the Communist Group is therefore above all a cry of despair in the territories which feel abandoned, particularly with regard to access to their fundamental right to transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u230	I call Mr Leclabart, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u231	[[Ms Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, applauded]] Before replying, I would like to send a friendly wink to my colleague Laurianne Rossi, who, having become a mother very recently, cannot be present in this House to speak as rapporteur for opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u232	We wish him all the happiness of the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u233	I am against the deletion of this article. First of all, I recall that Article 172 of the Law of 24 December 2019 on the orientation of mobility, known as LOM, allowed the transfer. During the hearings conducted by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, we were informed that some regions had already expressed their interest in this transfer and engaged in discussions with SNCF Réseau – this is particularly the case for the Occitanie region. This amendment would therefore lead to a return to a process already well under way locally. In addition, the transfer to the regions will strengthen financial efforts on the fine lines and fully integrate them into local development strategies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u235	You recalled, Mr. Jumel, that many small lines had been closed. It is true that, for twenty to thirty years, it was thought that it was necessary, above all, to build large lines for high-speed trains in France. It was, of course, necessary, but, as you know, many small lines were then abandoned. Since then, regional and departmental officials have requested that some of the small lines that have been abandoned be reopened or that those in very poor condition be better maintained. That is why the Government, based on the LOM Act, has initiated negotiations with several territories. Mr Leclabart quoted Occitanie, I could mention the Grand Est or my region, the Centre-Val de Loire. At that time, the Presidents of the regions signed agreements with the Government. It should be borne in mind that although, as a result of these discussions, the management of certain small lines has indeed been transferred to the regions, agreements have also been signed so that the State – or SNCF in some cases – undertakes, together with the regions, to finance the restoration of certain lines. I would like to recall once and for all, as we begin the discussion on the subject, that these agreements are quite complete: I think, for example, of the mayor of Saint-Dié-des-Vosges, who welcomed the reopening of the line linking his municipality with Alsace. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u236	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u237	This article praises a policy launched in Alsace in 2004, the transfer of regional lines to the regions on an experimental basis. In fact, Alsace was a pioneer in this field. Let us remember the work carried out by Hubert Haenel,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u238	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u239	... who was both senator and vice-president of the regional transport council before becoming a judge of the Constitutional Council. He demonstrated how the effectiveness of regional action could improve service on a daily basis, but also the connections on the main routes, at a time when Alsace was not served by any TGV line. I would like to point out that the backbone of the Strasbourg-Bâle line has been completely revitalized by the action of the region. The same applies to hair lines. You mentioned the one linking the region to Saint-Dié-des-Vosges, but one could mention the Mulhouse-Thann-Kruth link, which still requires some investments, especially at the level of the Thann crossing – I would like to recall this example since some colleagues have referred to the infrastructure files they wanted to see included in the next plan contract – or the Munster-Metzeral line. All of this shows that the region, especially when its perimeter corresponds to the reality of the population's mobility and life, can take effective and useful action in terms of transportation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u240	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u241	The Communists have shown that they know how to carry out effective policies, particularly in the field of transport, including when they sit on a regional executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u242	They're rarely in the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u243	It is therefore not for me to question regional competence on this subject as a matter of principle. However, it must be noted that some issues have an interregional dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u244	Yes, but they are governed by conventions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u245	I will take the example of my beautiful region of Normandy. Hervé Morin bought himself beautiful new trains – they are indeed very good – after having signed, as you recalled, a convention with the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u246	I hope these are Alstom trains made in Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u247	But STIF, the transport union of Île-de-France, has decided to launch works, so that it now takes more time than a century to go from Dieppe to Paris. As we can see, the interregional issues of interconnection and equalization are therefore vital. My constituency, which is in the heart of the Seine-Maritime, is bordered by the Oise and Picardie. But if the Normandy region wants to reopen the Abancourt - Le Tréport line, it must talk to Xavier Bertrand, and the same goes for the Abbeville - Le Tréport line. On the one hand, the SNCF is waiting for the regions to talk together to start acting. On the other hand, the state is not at the time of history because it does not take into account the interests of the inhabitants. Therefore, it seems to me that we are right to advocate the return of a unified public rail service. I would add that regionalisation opens the door to the privatisation of this public service – or even accelerates this process – which is of great concern to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u248	Amendment No 1802 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u249	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 2675 and 2676, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u250	Amendment No. 2675 is intended to include in the law the principle of a national moratorium on the closure of small railway lines. Under no circumstances should management transfers to the regions lead to a reduction in services. Such a consequence can be feared. Indeed, in 2018, the then Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, had assured here that the future of the small lines would not be decided since Paris. These words were quite reassuring at the time. However, since the management of small lines is transferred to the regions, it can be assumed that their future can also be decided by the regions. It therefore seems important to me to secure this transfer. We had already made this request for a moratorium on several occasions, particularly in the context of the review of the LOM Act. We believe that small lines have a future, that they are important, especially for rural areas and peri-urban areas, and that they are a promising alternative to the car. The aim of Amendment No 2676 is to clarify that the Minister responsible for transport must take into account, first of all, the mobility needs of the population, in particular in the rural and peri-urban areas which are the main areas concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u251	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u252	By your amendment No. 2675, you want to include in the law the principle of a national moratorium on the closure of small railway lines and railway station services. This seems to me a bad idea because some regions have already made requests for transfers: let us not block a process already under way and well regulated by law. With regard to Amendment No 2676, I would point out that the purpose of the law is not to close stations but, on the contrary, to allow the transfer of stations to the regions on the lines transferred, precisely with a view to improving the quality of service. Moreover, this amendment provides a clarification which seems to be superfluous from a legal point of view: paragraph 6 already provides that "in order to issue its prior agreement, the Minister responsible for transport shall take into account the national transport policy...". Unfavorable opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u253	Amendments Nos 1805 and 1803 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi, draftsman of the opinion, are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u254	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3316.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u255	In its current wording, paragraph 8 of Article 9 limits the possibilities of transferring service facilities useful to small lines transferred to facilities exclusively dedicated to them, thereby reducing the possibility of effectively accompanying this transfer, even though the transfer of the facilities concerned is subject to authorization by the Minister responsible for transport, after advice from SNCF Réseau and SNCF Gares &am p; Connections. The aim of this amendment is to give the Minister responsible for transport more flexibility to assess the service facilities that it would be useful to transfer in order to make the transfer of management to the region as efficient as possible, while maintaining the level of safety of the railway network and the coherence of the national rail network.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u257	The amendment is intended to go back to the wording adopted in committee, according to which, when certain service facilities run by SNCF Réseau or its subsidiary SNCF Gares &am p; Connections serve several lines or stations, some of which are not transferred, and these entities retain control of these facilities, which are useful to the network remaining under their management. This measure should avoid the occurrence of very complex situations to be managed on the ground. Amendment of the amendment adopted in committee does not seem desirable. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u258	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u259	It is my understanding that the committee is issuing an opinion against the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u260	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u261	However, it seems to me to be quite relevant, since transfers always give rise to on-board effects. I take this opportunity to refer to another infrastructure which seems to me to follow the same logic. I know that you are aware of this matter, Madam Minister: these are the Hardt canals which, in the Rhine plain, also constitute an infrastructure essential for the proper hydraulic exploitation of the groundwater of Alsace and the irrigation of their crops by the Alsatian farmers. The problem is the same as for railways: an infrastructure, built in the 1950s by the state, has gradually ceased to be maintained and can hardly meet the needs, so much so that it could be imagined that it would be managed by the community that is already dealing with the rivers. However, such a transfer would result in on-board effects, which the use of the word "majority" rather than the word "full" would manage. It therefore seems to me that the logic advocated by the minister is the right one. If it could be extended to the Hardt canals, it would be beautiful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u262	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u263	In the preamble, I would like to point out that as we debate a major bill, of crucial importance – I will not develop the acronym 3DS, of which everyone knows the meaning – the method used imposes very special working conditions on us. After the discussion of Rule 56, which was called by priority yesterday, other texts were inserted into the debates this morning,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u264	We didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u265	... before the discussion resumes in a small Chamber. We are also sitting in a time when everyone is more concerned about the Christmas holidays than about the issue before us, while we are still building the France of tomorrow. I do not question the minister in any way. It will certainly enter history for a thousand and one reasons, but I would like to point out in particular that it was the first to have travelled all the French departments, which I thank her once again – even if she obviously still has territories to discover, like the channels to which our colleague referred.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u266	[[Smile]] I'll take him there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u267	I regret, however, that such working conditions are being imposed on us. To get to the amendment, our group will obviously support the pragmatism shown by the minister – perhaps I may venture to think that others will join us. We prefer to trust women and men who will have to make decisions rather than impose a cutlet on them. Maintaining the term "integrity" would mean that facilities owned 99% by SNCF and 1% by another actor could not be transferred – this is true regardless of the percentages considered. I therefore support the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u268	You will remember that it is thanks to us that this amendment will be adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u269	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u270	We will also be in favour of this amendment. I stress that, while we must of course allow some flexibility in transfer and management, I would also like to convey this message because several amendments to this effect have been declared, alas, inadmissible by the sitting service, to ensure the fluidity of communication.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u271	Yet, com', you make a lot of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u272	It remains too difficult, especially in the rail sector, depending on the competences of the various mobility organising authorities (AOM), to deliver fluid information on the existing offer, independently of the operators offering it. We must make progress on this point. Today, everyone notes that, when booking a train ticket, they are not informed of the solutions available to get to the station, for example. It is therefore important to carry out real substantive work on the fluidity of information on all possible connections on transport networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u273	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3317 and 3210. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3317.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u274	It concerns the transfer of rights and obligations related to the transfer of infrastructure management missions. The aim is to clarify that where the management tasks of an infrastructure including the fine service lines of the territories are transferred to an organising authority for rail transport, the rights and obligations relating to those tasks are also transferred. This provision is identical to that already provided for in Article 9 for management transfers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u275	Amendment No 3210 by Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u276	They aim to provide for the transfer of rights and obligations related to such missions when transferring management missions from an infrastructure with fine service lines from the territories to an organising authority for rail transport. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u277	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 2677.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u278	In a word, it aims to promote a positive social compromise to regulate matters which cannot be dealt with by the amendment to the employment contract of the employees made available. We believe it is necessary to define a secure framework if we are to guarantee employees' commitment to this important transformation. Otherwise, blockages are most likely to be feared. That is why the amendment also provides for a supplementary regulatory provision, in the absence of agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u280	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u281	Surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u282	Could you expand on that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u284	In Amendment No 2679, Mr Garot referred to the "impact on ecological transition" in the case of the transfer of ownership of a small line. Other amendments, which will be discussed later, also deal with the same subject. This concern is entirely legitimate. If the amendments are therefore interesting in substance – precautions must be taken and procedures laid down – you propose to insert a provision obliging SNCF to negotiate a collective agreement which would provide for the conditions for making employees available, the conditions for monitoring their career paths, etc. I understand the idea, but it is fully the role of collective bargaining to strengthen these guarantees, whether they concern the environment or employees. The adoption of the amendment would lead to an enormous increase in procedures. That is why I am asking for the withdrawal: this is not a dry unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u285	That's subtle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u286	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1002 and 2679, which can be discussed jointly. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1002.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u287	To bounce back on what the minister has said – of which I believe I already know the position – this amendment aims to ensure that the transfer of railway lines to the regions takes into account not only the needs of national transport and defence policy, but also the impact of the project on ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u288	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 2679.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u289	The minister has anticipated since she has already announced her opinion on the amendment, but I still believe that the desire to ensure that a line transfer will contribute to the ecological transition – or at least that it will not degrade the environmental impact of operating conditions – does not seem to me to increase the procedures. It therefore seems important to us to include this virtuous goal in the law in terms of ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u290	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u291	Article 9 aims to encourage the involvement of the regions in the development of small lines, which will enable modal reporting to be stepped up. As rail is an alternative to more polluting modes of transport, such as road, the environmental objective is, in fact, inherent in the transfer of ownership referred to in article L. 3114-1 of the general code of ownership of public persons that you wish to modify.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u292	How can we say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u293	On the other hand, the adoption of this amendment would require further analysis, which would increase the transfer procedures and could help to slow them down. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u294	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u295	I understand what you mean, Mr. Saulignac, but the impact assessment still makes procedures more difficult, especially since the operation of small lines, at the bottom, was often based on old diesel trains. All the initiatives that will be launched can therefore only be more virtuous than before. It is therefore important not to overburden the procedures, so that the operations can be carried out quickly. I am of a confident nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u296	Of course, but still!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u297	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u298	Once it is not customary, I agree with the minister: hell is paved with good intentions – it is evident for many projects to strengthen public transport. I will not attempt to make the same comparisons as the draftsman, because I believe that we must stop scorning those of our fellow citizens who have no choice but to move by car, but all the provisions aimed at promoting public transport must be encouraged in general. What happens if we plan this type of impact assessment? A small line left behind, on which nature has taken over its rights, for example, cannot be restored because a study has shown that its exploitation would involve cutting trees or disrupting natural habitat. In the end, years will pass before the line is transferred. We need to know why: a good intention, like that expressed in these amendments, can become a problem nest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u299	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u300	It is indeed necessary to know the reason to keep and trust those who will decide on the projects. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u301	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u302	I note that the assessment of the increase in procedures is of varying geometry: pardon, but when you decide to entrust the management of the roads to the regions, which will of course require the creation of Theodule committees in which discussions will be held not to end, sometimes influenced by political contingencies...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u303	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u304	...– for I imagine that the regional presidents expressing a certain political sensitivity will not fail to want to put the grapple on the roads of the departments presided over by elected officials from another side – you do not worry about the increase in procedures! You are, however, obviously creating processes of incredible heaviness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u305	It's the gas plant on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u306	It seemed to me that the constraint provided for in our amendment was by no means comparable. I hear your argument, however, and I take note of your optimism, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u307	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u308	The response of the Government and the draftsman, as well as the debate we have at the moment, show that the objective of transferring these small lines is absolutely not part of an altruistic motive, of general interest and of combating climate change, by which we would justify the development of a modal delay aimed at reducing the use of the car: it is only a question of putting the small lines on the backs of the regions which, in any case, will also gallantly keep them open, and competition will do what it has to do. I would point out, however, that all this is part of the continuation of the discussions we have had on opening up to competition at regional level. It would be consistent to revisit these openings to competition. Remember, we were told that competition was in principle great, that it was going to lower prices and improve service – I am thinking in particular of electricity and gas – and we see the result today! Rather, the Liberals should feel that the market and free and undistorted competition are not inherently conducive to achieving the objectives initially set. We need to reinvest in small lines to restore connections, stations, train frequencies, etc. across the country. Such a decision of general interest, I believe, must be taken at national level,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u309	Trotskism persists!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u310	... and not returned to each region according to its financial capacity. I can see what is happening in the department of the North, where all activities are concentrated in the Lille metropolis, in other words where trains still arrive at a sufficient frequency. In middle-sized cities, on the other hand, the structures eventually disappear because the nearby plant has disappeared and, in any case, the train no longer stops. People are no more stupid than elsewhere: when they can't get anywhere, their quality of life feels that way and they go where there is activity. Transferring the small lines to the regions is a measure paved with good intentions, but it will promote the phenomena of concentration in some metropolises and will accelerate the desertification of rural territories. I am therefore in favour of the amendment and against the logic of transferring more lines to the regions. At the very least, we could have gathered around this amendment which merely recalls that the challenge is to accompany the ecological transition in the country – but I see that it is more complicated than that...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u311	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 9. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3315.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u312	The aim of this amendment is to enable departments to finance major railway projects, even without State-region plan contracts. In accordance with the current wording of Article L. 1111-10 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, SNCF Réseau and its subsidiary SNCF Gares &am p; Connections may receive subsidies from the departments in connection with operations registered with the CPER, but the financial participation of the departments in projects under the control of these entities is no longer possible, apart from CPER, since the transformation of SNCF Réseau and SNCF Gares &am p; Connections in public limited companies as of 1 January 2020. However, it seems necessary to extend this derogation in order to allow departments which wish to do so to contribute to the financing of projects which are not usually dealt with in this framework: these are in particular new lines, which are never included in a CPER, and overall projects which, after the stage of the public inquiry, are the subject of specific financing protocols, for example the Grand Projet rail du Sud-Ouest and the new lines Provence-Côte d'Azur and Montpellier-Perpignan. This would allow departments to continue to subsidize this major work undertaken by SNCF despite the transformation of its status.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u313	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u314	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u315	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u316	I understand the value of your amendment, but I would have preferred that this provision be included in the original text – you are tabling a lot of amendments, so without a prior impact assessment, which does not help us to do a good job. You want the departments to be able to help carry out interesting projects in terms of developing mobility. We can only find the idea interesting, but this is not part of their original competencies and it should not be made the rule, or even a prerequisite for such projects to come into being. It is clear that it is only in principle a matter of giving them the opportunity, but that this provision will put pressure on them because, when major investments are to be financed at rail level, they will have to meet, and this would be harmful in view of their financial situation. As you know, departmental councils are strangled by the cost of individual solidarity allowances. Of course, this can put oil in the workings, and so much the better, but this provision should not translate into a quasi-automatic obligation for departments to co-finance these investments when they are not able to do so: in this case, projects will simply not see the light of day. Let us not make this funding a condition for the completion of projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u317	That's not a condition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u318	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u319	This amendment seems to me of common sense because it allows the departments, if they want it – there is obviously no obligation – to finance lines outside the CPER. We can only support it in the rail sector. I really don't see what the problem is. The Dem Group will therefore vote in favour of the amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u320	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u321	You still have a lot of talent to introduce flexibility when it comes to looking for money from communities that, under current law, would not be able to participate in certain operations. But then it must be admitted that this is valid in the other direction! Today, a department that has a project for its departmental roads, therefore for its own heritage, cannot under any circumstances seek a cent from the state, even if the operation has a structural interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u322	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u323	In short, what works in one direction should work in the other. You invoke flexibility, which seems to be common sense: to challenge a more flexible procedure is to risk being taxed to be rigid! So all this is very trapous. You make possible what was not, and you do it first and foremost, everyone sees it, for the money of the state. We can anticipate extremely complicated situations, where departments will find themselves in a blackmail position, accused of being partly responsible for the failure of an operation if they refuse to participate in its financing. The measure is therefore double-edged.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u324	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u325	I agree, it's double-edged. But I believe, for my part, in the ability of elected officials to take on their responsibilities and I am not afraid to entrust them with them even if they will sometimes have to make difficult decisions. However, I do not understand why what will be allowed the departments for railway infrastructure will not be allowed on other subjects, even when it may be relevant that they also intervene: I am thinking in particular of the local economy. But now, out of the question! When it's to help the region, no worries, departments are allowed to co-finance, but without having the initiative of the project. But when they want to seize public policies adapted to the specifics of their territory, the State is rigid and responds to them in the negative, arguing that the economy falls within the exclusive competence of the region and the EPCI – public institutions of intercommunal cooperation – and that the department cannot be allowed to intervene. With such an amendment, the argument that departments must do what they have to do and that, strangled financially, they do not have the means to deal with anything else falls. I will vote for this amendment, but I believe that departments should also be allowed to intervene in other fields, particularly in the area of the local economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u326	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u327	Mr Saulignac, when SNCF was a public industrial and commercial establishment, it was possible for SNCF to use the financing of the departments, but this is no longer possible because of its change of status to a public limited company. This amendment draws the consequences and makes it possible again what was before: nothing new, therefore. I hope I've been clear...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u328	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u329	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2678.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u330	Like all the amendments that I will defend today, this is the result of an exchange with the local elected representatives of my constituency, in this case with the president of the Lille metropolis. It covers the time required to declassify unused railway lines. It is a real part of ping-pong between the Ministry of Transport and SNCF Network, and decommissioning takes at least two years, extremely long time in relation to the urgency of certain development projects, mobility projects or other projects. You have understood that this is an appeal amendment, Madam Minister, to clarify what can be done to speed up these decommissioning operations. It is therefore both an amendment to simplify and effective public action in the service of reactivity for the territories, with a view to speeding up a number of projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u332	I understand your concern, Mrs Petit, but the notion of "reasonable time" seems to me to be insufficiently precise in legal terms: in particular, there is no provision for a date from which the time limit runs or for the duration of that time limit. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u334	You yourself said, Madam Member, that it was an appeal amendment, and for having been mayor for many years in a commune where railways were passing, I understand your concerns. The decommissioning process is quite long with SNCF, I must acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u335	Especially with SNCF Network!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u336	The procedures should therefore be eased, but as you know, the current state of mind is rather that of a culture of protection of the existing one. It is therefore a matter of finding the right balance. I shall refer this matter to the Minister responsible for transport, but I cannot give a favourable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u337	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3313.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u338	As part of the opening up to competition of public road and urban passenger transport in Île-de-France, the Mobility Guidance Act provided for the automatic transfer of contracts of employment of RATP employees in the event of a change of operator, but did not explicitly specify that this scheme applies irrespective of the legal nature of the new employer holding the public service contract, including when the organising authority decides to proceed by direct allocation or to take over all or part of the service open to competition in accordance with European law. This amendment supplements and clarifies this point of law so that the employees concerned are automatically transferred and benefit from the associated social guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u340	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u341	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u342	This amendment is archetypal of the way in which legislation has been enacted since the beginning of the quinquennium. Legally, the laws we pass are rather poorly drafted. Two years after the publication of a text, we are counting the bumblebees and correcting or defining the words that have been misused. The environmental code perfectly illustrates all this. If we mention the inability of local and regional authorities to act, we must talk about this code, written in an execrable way – I am not talking about the substance. It contains terms that mean nothing, words that systematically provoke a multitude of successive case law in search of clear definitions. If there was a useful reform for local and regional authorities, it would be the recasting of the environmental code by lawyers with somewhat precise formulations. We cannot abandon this wording to politics alone without risking the succession of meaningless words, which leave it to the judges to interpret the intentions of the legislator and lead them, under the pressure of mobilizations for or against a particular project, to take decisions that no longer have any meaning in themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u343	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u344	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3314.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u345	As regards the competence of the company of the Grand Paris in the matter of planning operations, it allows it to conduct real estate operations on the rights acquired in connection with the realization of the stations of line 15 est, whether or not the communes are signatories to a territorial development contract, as is already the case for the right-of-way acquired in connection with the realization of the other lines of the Grand Paris Express. Mr Schellenberger, I answer you before you ask me the question: these are adaptations and, at all times, under all governments, the law has also been used to solve the problems that it had not previously solved and to fill the legal gaps that remain unnoticed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u346	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u347	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u348	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u349	Of course, minister, our role is to amend the law as necessary, but let us admit that since the beginning of the quinquennium, you have multiplied the accelerated procedures, which shorten the shuttles. You appreciate the upper and lower houses, you have a sharp parliamentary culture, and you know that shuttles allow, without accelerated procedure, to avoid the pitfalls we are talking about. The Government has also done a lot through ordinances, and by filing amendments within time limits that have not allowed for a precise review. Consider considering the bill to speed up and simplify public action (ASAP)! Some of you – we weren't very many – will remember that the text was discussed under amazing conditions – I still remember a certain Friday. There is a method problem that comes from the consideration given to Parliament. Members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats should, as they have always done, vigorously defend Parliament: this method should be reconsidered. We are talking about a text adopted in 2020, on which we are already returning. Of course, it is necessary because it was written wrongly, but if we allowed Parliament more time to examine the texts properly, that would be a good thing. Look at the number of government amendments tabled after Article 9: I am not saying that they are all going in the wrong direction, but I am not sure that they are all very well written.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u350	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u351	I thought you were going to refer to the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRE Act, adopted in the Senate at four o'clock in the morning before a Joint Joint Commission (JC) reached an agreement. It should not be forgotten that this text that you condemn, and we are a number of people who think it was not exceptional, was voted on in 2015, under these conditions before its consideration in the CMP. In terms of legislation, we must be modest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u352	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u353	Mr Bazin, I understand your question about the functioning of the House, but it is not part of the debate this morning. It may be the subject of another debate or even of a constitutional text. In this case, all the amendments tabled by the Government have the very simple and commendable objective of adapting measures according to the different legal statutes of the institutions. I believe that we can only agree on this update.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u354	Amendment No 1804 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi, draftsman of the opinion, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u355	I have before me two amendments by the Government that contain an additional article after article 9 ter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u356	More government amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u357	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3318.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u358	It specifies the state-of-the-art regime of the stations of the Grand Paris Express network, as well as the skills of Île-de-France Mobilitys, chaired by Mrs Valérie Pécresse,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u359	Thank you for the publicity! It is true that its reputation is growing rapidly! It will be on the record: we support it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u360	... in the management of the commercial or advertising spaces of the stations which, once received, belong to the Société du Grand Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u361	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3319.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u362	The aim is to draw the consequences of the recognition of the Grand Paris Express as a project of national interest by exempting the Société du Grand Paris from the right of preemption and the right of priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u363	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u364	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u365	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u366	Mr draftsman, you are in favour of this second amendment as well as the first one, but it does not seem to me that they have been seriously examined in committee, since they have not yet been tabled. They may go in the right direction but, objectively, it is extremely difficult to follow your opinion, which is not argued, as to whether its impact is positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u367	We must follow the advice of the Government! It's a good government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u368	Amendment No 1806 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi, draftsman of the opinion, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u369	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor to support Amendment No. 1859.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u370	It aims to extend the possibility given to the regional councils to experiment with an autonomous light rail transport system on demand, on railways whose current use is exclusively dedicated to freight. I am thinking, in the Normandy region, of the Motteville line in Saint-Valery-en-Caux, used once a month for industrial freight, for which the State has planned investments of 30 million euros. There is also the Bréauté line in Port-Jérôme-sur-Seine, and the Rouen line in Louviers for which the preliminary studies are under way. As it stands, the law allows the use of autonomous light transport systems only on disused lanes. Some projects are moving forward, but there should not be a legislative or regulatory blockage that would cause the regional president to explain to us that, although he has, he can't do anything anymore because the state hasn't done his job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u371	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u372	Unfavorable. The amendment will lead to the replacement of railway lines still dedicated to freight with lanes dedicated to the transport of people. As a result, it undermines our freight development policy, which aims to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u374	The traffic of light trains is incompatible with the concomitant traffic of freight trains, which by nature are heavy. It is therefore for security reasons that the Government is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u375	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u376	As far as speed is concerned, we are talking about freight routes used once a week, a month or even once every two months. Preliminary studies show that the pace of autonomous shuttles and light trains allows freight trains to travel very rarely. So the state is going to invest EUR 30 million on a 30 km track for the passage of a train every month or every two months, and we could not reuse this line of life, closed to passenger traffic some 20 years ago for economic reasons? These lines of life allow citizens to form themselves, to heal themselves, to go to see the sea, as my colleague Sébastien Jumel said, to go to work, but they also bring our rural territories closer to the metropolises. Large investments are made, and we cannot take advantage of them to bounce back and make the territory more attractive. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u377	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u378	As the Philizot report shows, light trains allow us to lower the bill for the famous "small lines" – for my part, I prefer to speak of fine services of the territory. I started my career in freight, at the SNCF, and I note that the minister is right: for safety reasons, light trains cannot be accepted to carry passengers on lines where freight flows. These are issues of reference, and SNCF will not compromise on its safety rules – this is the strong point of the French rail system. When there is no more freight on a line – at my home, on the Médoc line, this is the case between Bordeaux and Soulac-sur-Mer – it is quite possible to develop light trains. This is even desirable, especially since the equipment is cheaper. We should also ask the Transport Regulatory Authority the question of the reduction in the price of the furrow. All of this must be put on the table in order to generate investment and promote an appropriate policy. The article goes in the right direction, but it is essential to keep to the utmost caution with regard to cohabitation on the same line of light transport and freight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u379	Amendment No 1808 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi, draftsman of the opinion, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u380	I have before me three amendments Nos 678, 2173 and 2680 to delete Article 10. Amendment No 678 by Mr Christophe Jerretie is being defended. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 2173.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u381	It aims to remove a provision that allows cities and departments to install more automatic radars. According to a recent report by the Court of Auditors, while the 4200 automatic radars in France may have been useful, their multiplication has not led to a drastic reduction in the number of deaths and accidents. The Court considers that we have reached a plateau and that other types of investment would be necessary, in particular to secure more national roads. I take this example because we talked about these roads when the maximum speed allowed was increased from 90 km/h to 80 km/h. Moreover, the allocation of the product of these radars is not always very clear: is it going to cities or departments? Is it left to the state to finance road safety? I have the feeling that all this is not connected with the stated goal of reducing the number of accidents. The Court of Auditors does not think so. In the city, where cyclist accidents are increasing, rather than putting radars everywhere, it would be better to afford the means to make bike paths worthy of this name and to secure the cyclists' journey. The measure therefore seems to me to be a new way of indirectly filling the crates. The demonstration was done on multiple occasions, with the existing radars. If I therefore defend this deletion amendment, like other colleagues, it is because I do not want automatic radars everywhere. The educational virtue of an automatic radar has its limits. I prefer police officers and gendarmes on the ground, who stop a vehicle and come into contact with human beings to recall the rules, because this represents an added value in terms of road safety. I saw, at the beginning of the warrant, when I accompanied the gendarmes on this type of device, stopping a vehicle that had smooth tires and, rather than fined the person for that reason, telling him that he had three days to report home in his vehicle with new tires. This is the kind of thing that passes between the meshes of the net: an automatic radar sees none of this, it is not in any kind of exchange, it is not a human being. That is another reason to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u382	I call Mr Saulignac to support Amendment No. 2680.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u383	This is an article that needs to be approached with great caution, because, when automatic radars are challenged, there is a risk of being forced into the camp of those who are hostile to road safety, which is obviously not my case at all. I even think that we have room for manoeuvre and that we must do everything possible to improve safety. This article is quite surprising, especially since I understood that all road managers were involved. This will eventually make a lot of people, if we have to add the regions. This means that those who will be able, if this article is adopted, to put radars at the edge of the roads will give themselves to heart. I know that the prefect will have a say and that the local executive presidents will not be able to put them everywhere, as they want and wherever they want, but it still promises nice discussions. The only issue is fewer deaths and injuries on the roads. What guarantees do we have of achieving this result if we multiply the radars? Absolutely none. You won't find anyone to tell you that by increasing the number of radars on the roads, the number of deaths will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u384	By lowering the speed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u385	Therefore, if you sanction motorists without a result, you accredit the harmful idea of the money pump. It is my deep conviction that this article will accredit the idea that automatic radars are first and foremost a money pump. They are intended to limit speed and reduce the number of deaths, of course, but if we multiply them without results, what our fellow citizens will remember is that they are being used to bring money into the coffers of the state and, from now on, communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u386	Well, that finances the local authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u387	It's a shame, because there are major construction sites to open: secure the surroundings of our roads for motorcycles, bicycles, pedestrians; secure the first schools, where there is still too much speed in some agglomerations; Put the package on the liquor, the narcotics, the phone behind the wheel, who kill. I think this article is a diversion. It will not reach its target and will generate a lot of bitterness among motorists, who know that this measure will remain ineffective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u388	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u389	Mr Bernalicis, I've heard you talk about worn tires, but the radars are not capable, at this stage, of verbalizing for worn tires...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u390	That's exactly what I said: radars can't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u391	So your speech surprised me a little. Having been mayor for some time, I know that the request of municipalities for radars to be installed on their territory is very frequent. The whole thing is coordinated on the prefectural scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u392	Yeah, so what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u393	At the beginning of the week, I spoke to a departmental council whose president asked me, on behalf of the assembly he presides, to clarify whether this arrangement was, as he hoped, extended to the departments and not limited to the communes alone. When we met representatives of the Assemblée des départements de France and the Association of Mayors of France and presidents of intercommunality, I heard nothing negative about this proposal. Mr Saulignac, this is not a money pump. Saying it, as you do here, can just throw trouble and suspicion on the gait. The proceeds of police fines, distributed at the departmental level under the authority of the prefect, go in part to the local authorities concerned by the current radars. Finally, everyone here knows about educational radars. You know that young licensers can run speed contests with their buddies. I had to identify bodies in my commune for that reason alone. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] These arrangements go in the right direction and correspond to the expectations of the departmental and communal territories. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u394	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u395	Unfavorable. The installation decision requires consultation of the departmental road safety commission on the basis of an accident study and the prefect's favourable opinion. So the system is lined. And I recall that speed causes 30% of accidents in France, which is very important. A decree will specify the procedure for submitting applications for the installation of such equipment and will also specify that the processing of findings made by such equipment will be carried out under the same conditions as those reserved for the processing of findings made by operational equipment installed by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u396	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u397	The guarantees that you have just listed, Minister, are the same as those that are expected to prevail for the installation of a radar in normal time at the request of the Crown. However, the Court of Auditors explains in its report that there has been no substantial change in accidentology with the installation of new radars. On the other hand, revenues have increased, accrediting the thesis of a money pump, as Hervé Saulignac said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u398	It finances road safety!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u399	The demonstration that I have developed is that a human being is not only capable of appreciating the offence in terms of speed but also has other intellectual faculties that enable him to work on what is supposed to be the objective, namely road safety. I therefore deplore your arguments, which in fact are not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u400	The sense of measurement and tolerance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u401	That cities ask for radars, I have no difficulty with this: the prefecture decides. What is your problem with the current situation? It is certainly not satisfactory because, as the Court of Auditors points out, we have reached a plateau. I therefore do not think that we should continue in this direction, which only allows us to fill the crates. We deplore him. If you wanted to do road safety, you might ask for more police and gendarmes in the field, and you wouldn't just rely on an automated mechanism that, once again, has nothing educational.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u402	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u403	Something's missing from me. If radars are missing, add them! The state has full latitude today to add radars. I was told that a departmental chairman would have asked for this measure. I was president of departmental council: when we found a particularly accident-prone area, and the prefect has all the studies on it, it was not complicated to tell him that the authorities' responsibility is to place a radar in it. In a community-state dialogue, radars are obtained where needed. If there's any shortage, if there's any accident areas where you haven't installed radars, install them! Unless you're telling us that it's expensive and you want them to be funded by the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u404	Ah, not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u405	It must then be said very clearly, on the understanding that, if that is the only reason, it is particularly worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u406	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u407	The advantage of the scheme is that at least communities will be aware of what is happening, particularly in their communities. There is currently a malfunction with radars in agglomeration, including fire radars, which the mayors often discover at the time of installation, on a fire where they do exercise the police themselves. A very concrete example of state malfunction: the installation of a radar on fire protecting the crossing in the heart of the city of Thann, in my constituency. History is implausible. We are working with the various government departments to change the operation of the crossing, we are thinking that in order to fluidize traffic while ensuring safety one could remove a fire, it takes one year to agree on everyone and, when the time comes to request the suppression of the fire, we learn that it is impossible because the State has asked another service, which had not participated in the exchanges, to install a radar on that fire. As a result, all government departments have changed their minds. The mayor exercises the police on fire, but from the moment he finds a radar, he has little more to say. As a result, traffic flow has deteriorated. This is not entirely the subject of this article, but if the mayors could at least be warned in time that the state has decided to install a radar in their commune, it would already be a real step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u408	Regrettable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u409	Amendment No 3211 corrected by Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u410	Amendment No 2666 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi, draftsman of the opinion, is being defended. It is the subject of a sub-amendment. The rapporteur, Mr Bruno Questel, has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3478.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u411	I am in favour of the amendment, subject to the adoption of my sub-amendment which removes the reference to a decree to fix the amount of the fine: contrary to the principle of legality of penalties, this provision would make the amendment contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u412	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u413	Opinion in favour of the amendment thus amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u414	Amendments Nos 2976 and 2977 by Mr Bruno Questel, rapporteur, are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u415	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 2232, which deletes Rule 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u416	We oppose the transfer of powers from the Ecological Transition Agency (ADEME) to the regions. This will undermine the ADEME's ability to organize its action in a coordinated manner throughout the national territory. Moreover, what you are planning is only a first step. You will use the regions as the ADEME operating window; The scheme clearly states that the region will have to grant subsidies instead of ADEME, according to criteria negotiated and contracted with the latter. At the next stage, everyone will do as he or she wishes in his or her region, even though the issue of ecological bifurcation is central for years to come. We need a structure such as ADEME, strengthening it and providing it with strong capacity for action. This is not at all the direction taken with Article 12, hence our deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u417	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u418	When you have the opportunity, you denounce the backward state and there, while the regional prefects will, on behalf of the State, be able to fully resume the conduct of local public policies, especially on the Chaleur fund, you denounce the reverse method; Understand who can. On the merits, the deletion of article 12 can only be opposed, for two main reasons. First of all, it seems important to allow the EPCIs to be represented on the ADEME Board of Directors, which your amendment would prevent in fact. Moreover, with regard to the heat and circular economy that I referred to, it seems that the regions can usefully participate in their management within certain limits. Of course, there is no question of providing for a transfer as important as that envisaged by the Senate, and that will be the subject of my amendment No. 1074, which I would ask you to support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u419	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u420	I absolutely agree with the rapporteur's arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u421	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u422	I must express myself wrongly, because there is no contradiction at all with our other positions on the rest of the text. Currently, ADEME is assuming its responsibilities. There is no question here of adding skills or allowing new actions, but of transferring,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u423	We're not transferring!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u424	...delegate, thus dearticulate ADEME and remove part of its ability to act. Since ADEME is already in the prefect's field of action, I do not see where the problem lies. What escapes the prefect's perimeter is the regional council because of the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. You will refer this to a discussion, with a contract between ADEME and the regions that will be placed under the control of the prefect. Perhaps you want to regain control of the regions without saying so, by ensuring that the prefect can twist their arms, and guide their actions and subsidies. It is still strange since, at the moment, it is already the prefect who does it, in connection with the ADEME.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u425	But it is the regions that are asking for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u426	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 967 and 2535. Mr Guy Bricout's Amendment No 967 is being defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 2535.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u427	We intend to amend Article 12 to make it clear that representatives of local and regional authorities will now be appointed on the proposal of all associations representing the elected representatives. This will ensure the representation of the territories in their diversity, in particular that of the small communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u428	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u429	Request for withdrawal and, failing that, unfavorable notice. Although the objective can be understood, the request for the representation of municipalities with less than 2,000 inhabitants on the ADEME Board of Directors cannot be granted. As you know, the Association of Mayors of France is structured at the departmental level, according to the cantonal associations of mayors and elected representatives. It is within this framework that the best possible representations are developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u430	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u431	Unfavorable opinion. In some cases, the small communes are represented on the ADEME's boards of directors: in Seine-Maritime, for example, the municipality which is a member of the board of directors has 850 inhabitants. As the rapporteur has pointed out, this subject needs to be discussed with the associations of elected representatives. It is in this way that things are happening in the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u432	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 2138.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u433	We propose to delete paragraphs 5 and 6, considering that the delegation to the voluntary regions of grants and financial assistance in the field of energy transition and circular economy is likely to detricate coherent and powerful State policies. In addition to the obvious impreciseness of the competitions covered by these subparagraphs, we stress the possible drifts and territorial and social inequalities that could result from these transfers across the national territory, as well as the risk of strengthening territorial competition in support of economic actors in the energy transition or circular economy and the risk of accelerating the dynamics of liberalisation of the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u434	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u435	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u436	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u437	As you know, the regions have an essential role in the energy transition, which they share with the state. This delegation of funds will, of course, be done for the regions on a voluntary basis. This will have the dual advantage of strengthening the role of the regions in terms of energy efficiency and circular economy, and of not forcing those regions which do not wish to do so to contract with ADEME. This is very balanced and much appreciated by local authorities, especially since it does not prevent ADEME from playing its part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u438	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u439	Without going back to the whole debate, I would like to say a word about this matter of volunteering. This is a logic that is often found in the law and in the process of transforming our institutions for some time now. It is still a subject: either this competence is attributed to the regions, or we do not. It cannot be attributed to certain regions and not to others. So there is a kind of hypocrisy to this extent. At the end of the day, I do not see how this can work in a coherent way. It's a way of doing it without saying it, it's still quite singular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u440	It's coordination!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u441	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u442	I will of course support the position of the rapporteur and the minister. It can only be admitted that energy and the circular economy are highly territorial subjects, unless one believes only in nuclear energy, that which concerns sixteen or nineteen sites in France and produces 70% of electricity. We ecologists, like many others, believe in energy in the territories, in energy specific to the territories. Each territory has its own balance and, in the field of circular economy, its own resources and raw materials. Each territory also has its own customs and customs: it cannot be said that a Provençal, a Breton or an Alsatian have the same cultures, nor the same kind of relations within society, or relations with spaces and territories. So nothing is more territorial than the circular economy. In an approach of trust towards local elected representatives, which consists of making regions the actors choosing their own development, these means must be passed on. Finally, everyone today speaks of relocation and resilience, which must be based on the territories and rely on the resources that we most control – those that we could call sovereigns, since they are under our feet to each other – and which, from Provence to Brittany through Occitanie, are very different. The management of the allocated funds must go back to the local elected representatives. That is why I fully support the mechanism as drafted and call on both to reject the amendments on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u443	Amendment No 1274 by Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u444	I can only give an unfavorable opinion, for several reasons. Firstly, the amendment tends to entrust the ADEME regional committees with the definition of the criteria for granting aid. On the other hand, it changes their composition, which is fixed by regulation: the balance that has been drawn cannot be changed. It seems appropriate that this policy – and not management – committee should be consulted within the framework of the Convention. However, it is a steering committee: I do not think it is up to it to define precisely the award criteria, as you ask.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u445	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, in support of Amendment No. 2234, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 12a A.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u446	My colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon was absent from the Chamber for a few moments. I will therefore defend this amendment, of which he is the first signatory. It aims to ensure overseas representation in the National Habitat Agency (ANAH) and the National Agency for Urban Renewal (ANRU). More than the other territories of Hexagon, the overseas territories suffer from an endemic problem of malhousing and even a problem of housing. It is therefore essential to involve them in the deliberations of ANAH and ANRU. We are too focused on hexagonal issues and forget that France is also La Réunion, Guadeloupe, Guyana and all the overseas territories. These territories are entitled to claim a quality of public service similar, if not higher, to that offered in Hexagon. As everyone knows, this is far from the case at present, but unfortunately we know how the Government accepts this legitimate demand. I regret this, especially at this difficult time for Guadeloupe. In the face of the crisis in this territory, the attitude of the Government and the Minister for Overseas Affairs is, to say the least, inappropriate – to say the least politely – and is certainly not conducive to a settlement of the conflict. What do the Guadeloupees today demand? Public services identical to those in the rest of the country. This request is obviously more than legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u448	As far as inappropriate attitude is concerned, you have no lesson to teach us, Mr. Bernalicis. Did you not, forty-eight hours ago, in this chamber, describe the Government's policy in Mayotte as apartheid? We must pay tribute to the Government and the Minister for Overseas Affairs for the energy they deploy to repair the Overseas Territories and to compensate for the damage caused by long years of inaction, particularly in the area of water management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u449	It is the island character of the Eure that speaks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u450	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u451	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u452	Let me reply to the rapporteur, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u453	You have the right to speak again, Mr Bernalicis. We're listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u454	It's all the beauty of scheduled legislative time! He has to have an interest...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u455	[[Smile]] Indeed...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u456	I was not talking about water management, Mr rapporteur, but simply about housing. However, we can address this subject if you wish. As far as Mayotte is concerned, our group has always supported the demand of its inhabitants for a large investment plan in public services. In this territory, the State focuses on the issue of migratory flows and the means requested by Mayotte have never been granted. The few measures decided by the Government did not meet the needs or challenges. We are observing the same phenomenon today in Guadeloupe with water management. We have constantly alerted you to the dramatic situation on the island in this area, and we will continue to alert you as much as necessary. Access to public services is a right. Obviously, the overseas pass after Hexagon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u457	It's outrageous to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u458	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] My colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon's amendment proposes, at the very least, that the Overseas Territories be involved in the deliberations of the ANAH and the ANRU, so that they do not go into the trap or the final position. You are apparently very pleased with your action in the overseas territories, and these territories make it good for you. An election jacket is definitely waiting for you in 2022: it will be absolutely deserved!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u459	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u460	That was too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u461	We can therefore proceed to the vote on the amendment – and not on your election forecasts, Mr Bernalicis...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u462	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 897.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u463	Presented at the initiative of my colleague Mansour Kamardine, Member of Parliament for Mayotte, this amendment concerns the management of European funds in Mayotte. Not only did the Government amputate Mayotte from half of the European fund to which this one hundred-first French department could claim, by allocating it only 450 million euros out of the 825 million that it could benefit from, but Mayotte is the only French region – since this community is the only one to be both department and region – not to have received the authority to manage European funds. The amendment therefore provides for it to be entrusted to him from 1 July 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u464	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u465	The amendment calls for the application of Article 12a on the accounting management of European funds in Mayotte from 2024 whereas the Article does not apply to this overseas territory. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u466	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u467	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u468	Would you like to withdraw the amendment, Mr Schellenberger?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u469	No, Mr. President. It is precisely because Article 12 bis does not apply to Mayotte that we ask for it to be applied. This is the subject of this amendment by my colleague Mansour Kamardine, to whom we supported. The date of 1 July 2024 is a reasonable time to allow this community time to organize itself to manage European funds. In any event, it is necessary to entrust this management to Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u470	Amendment No 1187 by Mr Ian Boucard, to restore Article 12b, deleted by the committee, is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u471	The amendments tabled on this article were intended to provide for a representation of 25% or 50% – as is the case with Amendment No 1187 – of the communities within the departmental commissions for the preservation of natural, agricultural and forestry areas (CDPENAF). I understand the goal of 25 per cent representation, but I do not think it is necessary to include it in the bill because it is satisfied that the representation of communities in the CDPENAFs is now slightly above 25 per cent, according to the departments. As for the objective of a minimum representation of 50 %, we have deleted Article 12b in committee because the provision falls within the regulatory area. This would lead to a reduction in the representation of other actors. Communities and groups are already sufficiently represented in the CDPENAF – about 25%. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u472	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u473	It is wise not to change the current balance in the composition of the CDPENAF. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u474	Amendment No 1207 by Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u475	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 782.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u476	This amendment, tabled at the initiative of Jean-Christophe Lagarde, aims to restore the consultation of departments, managers of sensitive natural areas, by the regions when they propose the registration or modification of a special conservation area or a proposed designation of a special protection area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u477	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u478	The designation of sites generally implies the ability to assess the adequacy of the network for each habitat type and species at the biogeographical level within the national territory. The coordination and expertise function requested in this framework goes beyond the regional level and even further beyond the departmental level. Consultation with the departments is not justified since they do not have jurisdiction over site management, since the latter is decentralized to the regions. This article provides, however, that the regions will be consulted with regard to the designation of exclusively terrestrial sites. It is not useful to further increase the consultation process as the site designation process, which has been underway for more than 20 years, is nearing completion. Finally, the departments are already involved in the Natura 2000 sites steering committees. By doing so, they may submit to the State a proposal to create or modify a Natura 2000 site without any formality being imposed. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u479	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u480	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u481	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u482	I love this democracy in which the only ones who are not asked for their opinion are the local elected representatives and the assemblies they make up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u483	That's not the point here! We can't put everything in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u484	That is precisely the subject, Madam Minister! The democratic processes we are talking about are designed to consult widely with the various actors, with the exception of those elected, who are not asked for their opinion. Contrary to what you are saying, Mr draftsman, the departments are competent in the management of sensitive natural sites. They even have taxation in this area, the development tax, which they use almost exclusively for the management of sensitive natural areas. And yet, they are not asked for their opinion! This amendment is logical and respects the primacy of representative democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u485	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3301.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u486	This editorial amendment restores the original wording of section 13 as adopted by the Senate by replacing the words "subject to" with the words "without prejudice" at the beginning of paragraph 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u487	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u488	This amendment has not been considered by the Committee on Sustainable Development. I am in favour of this in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u489	Mr Guy Bricout's Amendment No 964 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u490	I call Mr Leclabart, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 1694.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u491	It provides for the adjustment of the conditions for implementing the derogation available to the prefect of a department with regard to the minimum participation rate of the community or group responsible for the management of an investment project aimed at restoring biodiversity within an exclusively terrestrial Natura 2000 site.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u492	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u493	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u494	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u495	Forgive me for insisting, but these various provisions are a break in the way in which local public administration has been conceived so far. There will therefore be an area, biodiversity, in which the contractor will not need to engage. That is what this bill provides for! Such a system, quite crazy in my view, will not be such as to mobilise the territories for the protection of biodiversity. By this provision, you tell the territories that biodiversity is so important that they don't need to deal with it: sign at the bottom right and don't worry about the rest! You won't even have to pay for it or worry about it: delegated works will be entrusted to intermediate structures built in advance. The state doesn't need your opinion, or your money. He'll take care of everything in your house, behind your back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u496	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 1253 to re-establish Rule 13c, which has been deleted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u497	Mr. President is in a hurry, it's lunchtime soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u498	The President is not in a hurry: we respect traditional timetables and there is no exception to the rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u499	You are in a hurry to pass some additional amendments before the break...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u500	I'm in a hurry to hear you, Mr. Schellenberger, in the background, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u501	Don't worry: I would have been there right from the start to defend this important amendment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u502	You'll be able to do it now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u503	... which concerns the question of the wolf and aims to restore Article 13 quater. It was introduced by the Senate before being removed in committee in the Assembly and was intended to allow for differentiated application in mountain communes of the wolf slaughter ceilings defined at national level. This question is once again the front page of the media: it finally highlights the difficulties that mountain areas can face, particularly in terms of livestock farming and grazing, which are, it should be recalled, at the heart of our strategy of maintaining landscapes. Talking about biodiversity is good, but if we cut off this landscape-maintenance tool – and its biodiversity – that is, pastures and mountain farming, we will have missed everything. It should be recalled that there is no other satisfactory solution in this area. The derogation for the slaughter of wolves would not affect the survival of the species, while significant damage is regularly caused to crops and livestock. This amendment by the Republican Group is therefore intended to restore this article, introduced by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u504	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u505	The Senate had introduced an article 13 quater allowing for the local definition, by prefectural decree, of ceilings for the collection of wolves independently of the national ceiling. The committee has decided to delete the article in question, which you are proposing to reinstate. We are opposed to it; Such an article could threaten France's ability to guarantee a state of conservation favourable to the wolf and thus to comply with its international and European commitments in this field, in particular those of Directive 92/ 43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and species of wild fauna and flora, known as the Habitats Directive. Furthermore, the subject of wolf is already the subject of a specific policy, the Wolf Plan, which makes it possible to involve all stakeholders and offers valuable management flexibility. The actions of the Wolf Plan are in fact targeted in the territories most affected by predation. The adoption of your amendment would undermine the effectiveness of this instrument by making it more rigid and more complex; That is why the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u506	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u507	Unfavorable. I understand Mr Schellenberger's concern, but I wanted to tell him that, in application of the 2018-2023 national action plan on wolf and livestock activities, it is the prefect coordinator, specialised at the national level on the issue, who assumes the defence fire. It is likely to adapt the national scheme to each region, depending on the degree of wolf use, in order to protect livestock farms in the most affected areas. Your amendment is therefore already satisfied with the national action plan. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u508	Mr Schellenberger, is your amendment withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u509	He's not, on the contrary! I have not heard anything that would satisfy this amendment. We can see this, especially in the Pyrenees and even in the Alps, but also in Alsace, where wolves have been observed: the pressure of the wolf continues to increase on the farms. The subject is not the presence of the wolf as such; It is not against it that we are fighting, but against its harmful effects in some places. For the time being, we are unable to provide ourselves with the necessary means to combat these nuisances. It is also the very nature of our humanity to protect its habitat and its means of production. I would point out, for the draftsman, that the Committee on Regional Planning and Sustainable Development of the Senate has done a great deal of work on this subject and that this amendment is the result of its proposals, in particular proposal No. 7 of the information report of July 2020 on the application of mountain law 2. This demonstrates the seriousness, weight and balance of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u510	The next speaker is Mr François-Michel Lambert, who will be the last speaker this morning. We're in a hurry to hear you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u511	[[Smile]] We are indeed hungry for wolf! The wolf issue should not be addressed in this way. I want to point out that the presence of two wolves was confirmed yesterday in Marseille, within the national park of the Calanques. The subject therefore deserves more than a debate just a few seconds before lunch. I thank our colleague for his amendment, but I will of course not support it: I think we will not have time to take the necessary action in this Parliament, but the problem is with us and we must not drag anymore. The wolf is in Marseilles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u512	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-09-O1091.u513	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Following the discussion of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. The meeting is adjourned.
