ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u1	The next item is the question of arrangements for maintaining employment during the health crisis. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u2	During the health crisis, particularly during the confinements that were decreed in our territory, the majority of companies had to quickly establish telework arrangements and many workers had to adapt to their obligation, in sometimes difficult conditions. According to INSEE, in the first confinement in 2020, 34% of people in employment teleworked, compared to only 3% in 2017; In addition, 80 per cent of managers worked at home during the first confinement, indicating a massive phenomenon for the professions that were able to deal with it. Many companies therefore had to adapt and encourage their employees to carry out their teleworking activities, while neither was informed about the specific modalities of this way of working and about its supervision by law. In addition, some companies have faced equipment problems or inadequate network coverage at the home of their employees. Finally, when it was made compulsory on a full-time basis, telework may have caused psychological difficulties or even domestic violence. Madam Secretary of State, can you inform us of the various measures taken by the Government to accompany companies and workers so that they can adapt to this unprecedented form of professional practice? How have the social partners been involved in the success of its development? Finally, what major lessons can be learned from the deployment of large-scale telework in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u3	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u4	As you said, telework was the watchword that allowed us to adapt to the period of health crisis. From the beginning of the crisis, the Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration, Élisabeth Borne, held a regular dialogue with trade unions, employers and wage-earning organisations. Telework has been a lever to combat the risk of contamination: it has helped prevent the spread of the virus within companies but also around them and in public transport. A few figures can shed light on this phenomenon: according to the Institut Pasteur, telework has reduced the risk of transmission by 30%. It has been adopted in several sectors of activity for several months; where employees have expressed a need for it, they only visit their workplace one day a week, reflecting the quality of the dialogue initiated during the crisis. Since 9 June, as the health environment improves, room for manoeuvre has been given to businesses. They must now set a gauge in consultation with their employees, in the context of a rich dialogue; This is the philosophy of the collective government. They must therefore define a minimum number of days of attendance per week and allow for a gradual return to the workplace. As you said, telework has also been able to generate situations of stress, anxiety or isolation. In mid-April, 47% of employees reported feeling isolated and 34% felt that telework increased their stress. Returning to the site obviously means that the organisation of work is adapted to the safety requirements within the premises of the enterprises, but also that it takes into account the experience of teleworkers. The health crisis has brought telework into the daily lives of workers and I believe that this is a lasting step forward. This implies that all employers and their employees learn from this experience. If the health situation permits, companies and professional branches will be invited by the Minister of Labour to define the applicable framework for telework by 1 September, on the basis of the National Interprofessional Agreement (ANI) concluded on 26 November. For Élisabeth Borne, it is essential to support the use of telework according to the size of the company and the needs of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u5	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u6	For the past year, the health crisis has destabilized the lives of students and young people entering working life. They have been confronted with both psychological and financial distress. Student precariousness has been increased, as evidenced by increasing attendance at food banks. This finding shows that our young people have lost their bearings, as a result of the disappearance of student jobs, the difficulty they face in entering the labour market and the laborious journey that is required of them in order to obtain an alternance or an internship at the end of their studies. I commend the arrangements put in place by the Government to encourage the recruitment of young people. These measures are bearing fruit and the support provided by the Government has been total, in particular through incentives to hire young people for businesses or to cover part of the costs of internships and alternations. Nevertheless, for first-time entrants to the labour market, the risk of unemployment, precariousness or other difficulties remains considerable. Madam Secretary of State, my question is simple: how can we avoid young graduates being kept out of the labour market, knowing that experience is the main criterion for hiring? What are their prospects for employability?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u7	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u8	I know how committed you are to young people, especially in this period of health crisis. In particular, your question relates to young people who are active, those who enter the labour market. They have been the priority – they are always the priority – of the entire government team and the Minister of Labour has looked very attentively at them, deploying the plan "1 young, 1 solution". We have also made it very concretely easier for them to enter the labour market by allocating them more than EUR 1.1 billion in the form of exceptional bonuses – this is an example, the figure is global but it covers very personal and very special situations. The number of hires was the same as before the crisis, which illustrates the success of our responses. By comparison, the decline in employment was four times greater during the 2008-2009 crisis, while the one we have just experienced was of a historical magnitude. To respond to the financial precariousness of young people, which you mentioned, we have also secured their situation by, for example, allocating financial aid to former graduates, but also by developing a very personalized accompaniment – I know how much the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats group is committed to human accompaniment – which has taken several forms: a dedicated accompaniment has for example been set up within Pôle Emploi but also in APEC – the association for the employment of executives – which has deployed the "Objective First Employment" scheme for young graduates. Finally, we are doing everything we can to make job offers, summer jobs and internships more accessible. You were talking about the experience, Mr. Member of Parliament; At a time when social and human ties have been restricted, it must be encouraged. It is for this purpose that on the government website of the plan "1 young, 1 solution", we have gathered more than 265,000 job offers offered by private employers; These are opportunities to gain experience. To meet the demand of the students, we have also completed this dynamic site by adding more than 20,000 internship offers and more than 50,000 summer jobs that can meet current needs – new offers are submitted every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u9	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u10	When the crisis of the covid-19 expanded, the Government took the necessary steps to ensure the rapid and extensive implementation of the various support schemes for enterprises and employees, thereby helping them to cope with the repercussions of the restrictions imposed on their economic activities. Measures to maintain employment are among the main tools used by France to mitigate the effects of the crisis on the labour market and at the social level. France has allowed companies to consider the health crisis as a case of force majeure, allowing them to use the partial activity scheme. Its maximum duration, initially expected to be six months, was extended to twelve months. All contract employees were eligible; They received 70 per cent of their gross wages from their employer and these sums were finally paid by the State. As announced by the President of the Republic, the protected areas that have been closed administratively – hotels, restaurants and events – will continue to benefit until the end of June from 100% of the partial activity. Madam Secretary of State, it seems to me essential to continue to accompany the sectors in difficulty throughout the crisis and to take account of the particular situation of the companies which will have the most difficulty in restarting. From 1 July, you will begin to reduce the partial coverage of these sectors to a balance of 15%, while maintaining the compensation of 84% of the gross wage. You plan to reach a new level in August while maintaining the remuneration of the employees, the aim being to join the rules of the partial activity of common law from the beginning of September next. These developments should encourage companies in need to take advantage of the long-term partial activity, which enables a company to protect its jobs sustainably while at the same time strengthening the skills of its employees. Madam Secretary of State, how do you intend to change the existing arrangements in order to best accompany the economic recovery?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u11	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u12	You are right: partial activity and partial long-term activity (APLD) have allowed to build an anti-licensing shield and thus to protect both jobs and workers. Thanks to the commitment of the Minister of Labour and the Government as a whole, this scheme will have mobilized nearly €40 billion. Last April, 2.7 million employees were still affected by the partial activity and thus protected; At the top of the crisis, they were nearly 9 million in this case. So one can speak of a "shield". Your questions, honourable Member, relate to the future, that is to say, the evolution of the system. Now that health restrictions are gradually being lifted, accompanying measures must be adapted taking into account the specific realities of each sector. We are very careful not to remove them too quickly, in order to allow a step-by-step adaptation. Thus, companies that remain closed like discotheques, to which I know that the Dem group is particularly attached, will continue to benefit from the partial activity: as long as they remain in this situation, they will be able to benefit from 100% state ownership. For the other sectors – I am of course thinking of restaurants, bars, hotels, museums or sports halls – we will gradually step out of these emergency aid schemes by creating appropriate forms of human accompaniment. Each will receive support tailored to its specificities. That is why – the Minister of Labour is particularly interested in this – I call on companies to anticipate a sustained decline in their activities and to take advantage of the long-term partial-activity scheme, which will allow them to protect their jobs and employees with a balance of 15%, for a period of up to two years. It is in the long term that we want to protect jobs and employees in all the territories, for example in the hotel and catering sector – as a Member of Parliament for Vendée, I know that you are particularly committed to it. In concrete terms, this device can be used by any bar or restaurant in your territory. To date, 13500 agreements covering more than 800,000 employees have already been signed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u13	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u14	The Government has considerably increased the resources allocated to integration schemes through economic activity. Indeed, their relevance has been demonstrated: they help to combat precariousness and to promote the reintegration or occupational integration of our citizens far from employment. In fact, in 2021, a budget of EUR 1.1 billion was allocated for integration through economic activity, an increase of 15.3% in the number of posts financed. In order to preserve the resources of the employees in the first confinement, the Government had created a very protective regime and the length of the journey had been extended by six months. As regards the consolidation of the structures affected by the health crisis, a sectoral support plan has been established. An emergency scheme for integration structures through economic activity and adapted enterprises has also been set up in the form of a flat-rate subsidy; it has EUR 300 million to cover operating losses. In addition, there is funding and calls for investment or structural development projects. In addition, under the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, EUR 200 million for the benefit of 35,000 young people and an additional 30000 job subsidies are granted to these structures to create jobs in sectors of future or social transformation. Madam Secretary of State, how did the structures of integration through economic activity take over these support measures? Furthermore, at the end of the first half of the current year, can you state their ability to meet the objectives set for the course financed? Lastly, was the Government aware of any economic integration structures that would be in great difficulty? If necessary, can individual aid measures be deployed locally, in order to avoid the disappearance of these indispensable actors in the territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u15	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u16	The human model you are advocating is at the heart of integration through economic activity, a sector in which we invested €220 million in 2020, in response to the crisis. Some 4200 structures, i.e. more than 90% of business integration enterprises, have been able to benefit from this aid, which has enabled them to face operating losses or additional crisis-related costs – the need to reorganise or purchase protective equipment. Thanks to these funds, we were also able to launch in 2020 an unprecedented development dynamic – a goal pursued by Elizabeth Borne and Brigitte Klinkert, Minister Delegate for Integration – because it is a priority of the Government. We have launched a call for projects in the area of inclusive economic integration, which should take shape in 2021 and lead to the creation of more than 34,000 jobs. The budget for this inclusion recovery plan has been increased by EUR 100 million to EUR 320 million. In 2021, we will continue this dynamic which corresponds to our model: social and economic integration for all. We would like an additional 60000 people to benefit from economic integration, reaching a total of more than 200,000 by 2021. These are our priorities: inclusion through employment and inclusion for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u17	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u18	The health crisis and its consubstantial restrictions have exacerbated existing challenges and inequalities in all areas, particularly affecting vulnerable audiences such as persons with disabilities. For them, the crisis has had dramatic consequences, including a higher risk of covid-19 infection and the disruption and reduction of dedicated essential services. However, these consequences could become sustainable, according to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, which, after drawing up an alarming state of affairs, urges the Member States to step up their actions in favour of this more fragile public. In the framework of the France Recovery Plan, the Government had put in place a €4,000 hiring aid to support the employment of persons with disabilities. On May 28, you announced the extension of the aid until December 31, 2021. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes this because we are convinced that the construction of a more inclusive society that respects the rights of minorities will necessarily involve integration into the labour market, which is a formidable factor for social cohesion. However, despite these efforts, it must be noted that the situation of this public has worsened considerably, prompting governments to introduce new measures. Can you provide us with information on any additional measures your department will take to address the challenges faced by persons with disabilities? Moreover, because of a loss of turnover of about 30%, many establishments and services providing support through labour find themselves in difficulty to ensure the sustainability of their jobs. Earlier this year, the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, Sophie Cluzel, launched a consultation with stakeholders in the sector to try to address the structural challenges of modernisation expected by these institutions. Do you have any information on the progress and results of this consultation? Employment support institutions and services (ESAT) represent more than 150,000 disabled workers engaged in a professional activity, whose working conditions must be preserved in order to meet the new challenges of disability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u19	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u20	Your vision of the inclusive economy is sensitive to each other's difficulties and advocates an accompaniment consistent with the promise of the Republic and the social model dear to you. Within the Government, Élisabeth Borne, Sophie Cluzel and I have a mission to accompany the adapted companies, which create real opportunities for the economic integration of young people, this path allowing for greater social cohesion because everyone can find their place. In response to the crisis, we have taken measures to protect these adapted businesses and enable them to retain their workforce. Secondly, this aid is intended to help them transform and sustain a dynamic of job creation. As of August 2020, more than 100 million euros have been granted to these adapted companies that bring real solutions in our territories, allowing every citizen to be fully involved in it in his or her life. Two thirds of the funds have been earmarked for project development but also for more structural reforms aimed at enabling these companies to project in the post-crisis period. More than 1200 local initiatives have already been agreed: solutions also come from the territories, which I know is very important to you, Mr. It is necessary to build on the expertise of these ecosystems, which will create more than 11,500 jobs by 2022. These initiatives are part of a national dynamic, involving consultation with the Minister of Labour on the creation of sectors and the relocation of activities related to sectors such as textiles, digital and automotive. The post-crisis is in sight. This will be the time to take stock and set appropriate business development targets. The public employment service is mobilised to facilitate the recruitment of candidates, to ensure human support and the visibility of the adapted companies that offer a real response in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u21	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u22	While the health crisis has profoundly weakened the territories already far removed from employment, business creation is rather dynamic in the 1514 priority neighbourhoods of the city, known as QPV: the rate of creation is 2.2% of the labour force, compared with 1.7% on average in France. It should be added, however, that the unemployment rate is twice as high as the national average, and that about 44% of the population lives below the cleanliness threshold. In these circumstances, becoming self-employed is less a choice than a necessity, that of creating one's own job in order to escape unemployment. In fact, many young people are disarmed, and the health crisis has greatly aggravated the social crisis. In response, you have established a free job scheme, which is to award an exceptional bonus to the hiring of a young person under 26 years of age, for a contract signed between 15 October 2020 and May 2021. Our group is of course in favour of this incentive mechanism, which can provide many young people with access to employment. However, we believe that structural reforms must be launched to try to stem the spiral of unemployment and poverty in these neighbourhoods. What long-term reforms would you recommend to address the negative impact of the health crisis on employment in the PQs? Our group welcomes the launch of the new experimental phase of the "long-term zero-unemployed territories" scheme in the ten selected territories, aimed at hiring unemployed people who have been out of work for at least 12 months. During the debates in committee and then in the sitting, we had very much supported this modest but effective tool in the direction of the most fragile, underpinned by the legitimate principle that no one is unemployable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u23	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u24	The Government is aware of the major challenges faced by people living in the QPVs, which are nevertheless rich in dynamic youth and require only full development. These neighbourhoods are characterized by an unemployment rate of 2.5 per cent above the national average, and by the youth of their inhabitants: under 25s represent 39.1 per cent of the population, 10 points higher than in the rest of the territory. We must live up to this youth. While the residents of the city's priority neighbourhoods represent about 8% of the population of our country, they are 40% of the beneficiaries of the call for projects "100% inclusion" that we have just mentioned. Almost 20% of young people have integrated the "youth guarantee" scheme in order to receive the necessary human support and not to be condemned to a choice that would not be theirs. Some 17% of them took part in a youth skills (PEC) job path, almost 17% in a contractualised career path towards employment and autonomy (PACEA), and 12% in intermediate associations. These few figures illustrate the importance of the mobilization of the Government – in particular the teams of Elizabeth Borne, those of Nadia Hai, deputy minister in charge of the city, and mine – in favour of these territories. We will step up our efforts towards their inhabitants, in particular by strengthening employment offices in the neighbourhoods most in need. The aim is to promote access to the network and to give the inhabitants more chance to choose their route, thanks in particular to the dynamics created by the employment cities. In order to do this, the Minister of Labour recruits more than 500 additional counsellors from more than sixty-six employment offices, which cover almost 35% of the unemployed. These reinforcements will make it possible to step up the human support of some 100,000 jobseekers. They will also allow us to develop actions outside the walls, to go to meet the populations, especially the most fragile people, in order to build on the wealth and dynamics of our territories. With Nadia Hai, we deploy sixty additional employment cities in the QPVs, in order to label the dynamics and show all the beautiful creations of our popular neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u25	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u26	We are supposed to ask the Government about the mechanisms it has put in place to maintain employment during the crisis. My first question will be quite simple: while the state will rarely have put so much money into companies without constraint in the course of its history, what have you done to avoid the massive redundancies that take place even within companies that continue to make profits? A map of France has just been published, locating the hundreds of social plans under way in this country. Many of them, I repeat, are not motivated by economic reasons. How do you justify that large CAC40 companies such as Renault or Air France have been able to remove 5000 or 7000 jobs while being supported by our taxes? How can you explain – and above all how to accept – that you have not put in place rules as simple and necessary as the conditioning of the payment of public aid? It would have been simple to ban aid to companies that distribute dividends, or to prohibit redundancies in companies that make profits and receive public aid. Let us remember a few situations of this type. The U.S. owner of the subcontractor of the automotive and aeronautics PPG – formerly the French Joint – has just decided to outsource the production of this profitable company, which translates into a social plan. My point applies to the originators. Employees of Advance Aluminium Wheels are currently protesting before the National Assembly against the closure of their company, which employs 280 employees in Châteauroux, Indre, in a completely deprived region. Many automotive subcontractors – there are also in La Souterraine and elsewhere – see orders drop because Peugeot and Renault prefer to buy their parts – in this case aluminium rims – elsewhere in Europe or on the other side of the Mediterranean. However, everyone will agree that aluminum will always be needed in this country. How can we accept this industrial desertification at the very moment when you put so much money into the economy? What are you waiting for to go to Renault and Peugeot and tell them that the billions of euros donated will remain on the table, provided these companies do not close? Go explain this to the employees who are angry. For my part, I understand them: it is unbearable! When will the Government act to avoid this kind of scandal: boxes make profits with our taxes, shut down factories even though they receive public aid?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u27	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u28	First of all, in this period of health crisis, the state has been more protective than ever in its history: nearly 9 million employees have been in a situation of partial activity – it was a matter of protecting jobs, workers and their families, territories. Reindustrialization is the priority of the government team, which is reflected in the mobilisation of my colleagues Élisabeth Borne and Agnès Pannier-Runacher, the minister responsible for industry, by the measures taken to ensure that every employee can train and benefit from human support in his territory. We will never be satisfied with situations that cripple and leave scars on territories. The members of the government team – in particular Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Élisabeth Borne, Brigitte Klinkert and I – aim to protect these families, routes and workers. We have engaged in a strengthened dialogue by imposing conditions, particularly with regard to long-term partial activity. Conditions must be required in the context of a rich and necessary social dialogue: a commitment not to dismiss or strengthen training, for example, for a period of two years. That, Mr. Member of Parliament, is the Government's action to protect these jobs and families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u29	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u30	All this seems a little out of date to me, Madam Secretary of State! The question is not that of long-term partial activity. For example, I was in contact with someone in the ministry, someone very charming in fact, about PPG, who explained to me that everything would be done to make the social plan as human as possible, while the problem is how to keep the jobs of companies that produce what we really need in France. Despite these needs, jobs are sent elsewhere because either order-holders like Renault or Peugeot, or owners, after taking state aid, will make profits in countries where work is cheaper. This can no longer be accepted; We need to change the software. We must no longer give money to companies without conditions. The first is to prevent redundancies in the stock market. Companies cannot receive money from taxpayers and operate, at the same time, stock market redundancies; It makes sense to me, and it's even more so in the current period. A second condition is linked to the two years of decline in domestic production: we can do what we want, we must finally know who pays. And it can be either capital or labour. You have clearly decided that it would be work again – it is the reform of pensions, the reform of unemployment insurance... On the contrary, we say that we have to go in one way or another to get the money that continues to accumulate – we know that the dividends of the CAC40 companies increased by 22% last year as we go through a major economic crisis – to pay for the work. This involves reducing working time, ending economic redundancies, guaranteeing employment, hiring for the ecological transition... We will do this by putting money into work and stopping thinking that the more capital we will promote the more jobs we will promote – it is the theory of runoff – because we see that this is not true. The result is Alvance Aluminium Wheels. I would have talked about them several times, but I assure you that their anger is not partisan. Go and see them, ladies and gentlemen, they are in front of the House! It's unbearable to see people telling you, "We're dying! It is our industry that is dying; We need to protect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u31	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u32	I understand you're asking the question of the counterpart. It must of course be adapted to the situation of the company. I can assure you, even if it is not my portfolio directly, that the Minister of Labour, the Minister of the Economy and the Minister responsible for integration are following with the utmost vigilance the aid paid by France reinvigoration. For example, information on State aid should be communicated to the Social and Economic Committee (ESC). I believe in the quality of social dialogue at the same time as the need to maintain our industry. I myself come from a territory in which industries are established: every time we lose one of them, we also lose the entire ecosystem of subcontractors. That is why our mobilization is total. When I speak of a long-term partial activity, honourable Member, this is just one example of the conditionality of aid. Stronger dialogue is needed in order to protect businesses, provided they are engaged. This is the course we have chosen. We want to preserve industry, and therefore jobs in our territory, and this is reflected in various forms. I hear the anger you express – it is perceptible to the sound of your voice alone – but the government team is mobilized to protect these jobs, these workers and the territories concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u33	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u34	In 2020, France had a 1.6 million young people who were not employed and did not attend education or training, 130,000 more than in 2019. This particularly worrying figure has revived the debate on the introduction of a minimum income for young people. The latter, between 18 and 25 years old, are more frequently recruited into short contracts, precisely the jobs that were most destroyed during the crisis – about 700000 of them had disappeared in the first quarter of 2020. We can commend the Government's efforts, particularly in the area of learning – I am thinking in particular of the exceptional assistance for the hiring of alternates. Partial activity has also been heavily used, but developments for 2021 could be clarified, in particular regarding the tourism season approaching and access to this scheme for seasonal employees among whom young people are overrepresented. I also wonder about your project to universalize the youth guarantee, which allows you to accompany the 16-25 year olds in great precariousness. Only 200,000 young people are expected to benefit by 2021: how do you explain that the number of potential beneficiaries is so low? How many youth guarantee applications have you registered so far and what would you do if a much larger number of eligible young people asked to have access to the scheme? As it stands, it costs less than opening the RSA to the 18-25 year olds, but we cannot really talk about universalisation when part of the youth is not concerned. Finally, the rapporteur-general of the Finance Committee, Laurent Saint-Martin, proposes to experiment with an emergency income for young people. What is the Government's position on this project?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u35	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u36	Our priority, all ministries, was to accompany young people during the period of the health crisis. I can tell you how strong the mobilization on the youth guarantee has been from the beginning of the crisis. The day after I joined the government team, together with Elizabeth Borne, we asked the Youth Policy Guidance Board for a report on developments in the youth guarantee. It is as a result of this work that we have moved towards the goal of a universal guarantee based on youth organisations and that we have doubled, through the stimulus plan and budgetary mobilization, the number of young guarantees available, by making it evolve. In concrete terms, MP, the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan provides a solution for more than 1.1 million young people. This translates into employment, apprenticeship, youth guarantee, for some of them, but also specific training. We have one course, one horizon: economic integration, employment. This is the best way to fight poverty; It is the best way to combat the impoverishment of a whole youth. That is why we have responded at different levels. For the young students, there was the reopening of the study of the files for the award of scholarships, because some families were no longer able to help the children. There has been an increase in the remuneration of the work placement, desired by the Minister of Labour, so that there is no longer any competition between the arrangements and the trainings. We do not provide a unique response to our youth, because the youth is diverse. Each situation deserves specific support and young people especially need to be given the means to overcome it in the long term. Between the ages of 16 and 25, a young person first needs a financial solution to escape the precariousness – the youth guarantee corresponds to this expectation – but he also needs the human accompaniment that will allow him to get out of it and build the life he wants. I am of course thinking of training, studies, employment, summer jobs, internships. He must of course build this future without having to wonder if he will be able to eat at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u37	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u38	The issue of the European system for workers affected by the crisis is rarely addressed. We are trying in this debate to assess what has already been implemented by the State, but to be complete, this exercise must prompt us to deal with shortcomings, some of which are clearly European. In the face of the crisis, the European Union quickly sought to strengthen its support for the victims of the covid-19. This support has resulted in an increase in the budget of the EMFF, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund: €1.3 billion have been released. The scope of the EMFF has been extended to include employees who are victims of a Pandemic-related termination. The fund found itself in the spotlight when KLM's employees had to be helped. However, in France, the effects of the FEAM are limited, because, like many European funds, this one remains little known to the general public. Madam Secretary of State, how do you intend to remedy this lack of awareness and make this fund more responsive and visible to French workers? In 2020, the Court of Auditors already pointed out the missed opportunity for French companies because the fund was little mobilised in the face of the crisis. In comparison, it is known that Spain has opted for a sector-by-sector approach with local-level dossiers, a strategy that benefits SMEs very much. What measures are being taken to seize this European opportunity to save employment in times of crisis? Why not develop an approach that takes account of sectors and territories in order to benefit employees of SMEs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u39	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u40	As far as European funds are concerned, communications are now under way, based on the services of the DIRECCTE – Regional Directorates of Enterprise, Competition and Consumer Affairs. As soon as the finding was made, the Minister of Labour responded immediately and an answer was provided. As a result, information is now available in all regions, in particular to support SMEs and TPEs. Part of the recovery plan which has enabled us to protect jobs and therefore workers, which has enabled us to double the number of young guarantees or that of integration or training schemes, is financed by the European Union. This element must be put into perspective: of the 100 billion of the recovery plan, 40 billion comes from European funds. A few weeks ago, I was in Brussels at the European Council of Youth Ministers: the European Youth Guarantee is under construction. It will allow every young person, within this beautiful political project, to benefit from support and financial assistance to enable him to find his way, to build himself and to no longer live this fragility, this crack that worsens the difficulties. This will also reduce inequalities in access to economic or social integration by considering each young person as an opportunity, as a wealth, by giving him the means to move forward. I would also like to mention, with regard to mobility within the Union, the doubling of Erasmus+ budgets, the role of the European Solidarity Corps, or the 100,000 additional civic service missions that allow young people who are not students to live abroad. Europe can thus be an opportunity for every young person, in particular through the mobilisation of the European Union. Young people will also benefit from the "Europe" civic service announced a few weeks ago by Clement Beaune, the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u41	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u42	Since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government has deployed a number of mechanisms to financially support businesses: partial activity amounting to €27 billion in 2020, solidarity fund amounting to €17 billion, guaranteed loans to businesses. While these State aids were justified in the light of the economic shock caused by the brutal cessation of certain activities, they were not accompanied by requirements for the preservation of employment. The deployment of state-guaranteed EMPs to major groups is a testament to the absurdity of this policy of dumping billions of euros without requiring social counterpart. Thus, despite massive public aid, social plans have been increasing for several months. Renault, which has received €5 billion from PGE, has presented, as of May 2020, a plan of savings providing for 4600 job cuts in France and 15,000 in the world. Similarly, Air France, which has received €7 billion in financial support from the public authorities, plans to abolish 7,500 posts by 2022. The Accor Group, which received EUR 500 million of loans from the State, announced in mid-January that it was planning to abolish 1900 jobs in Europe, including 770 in France. Last example among many others: Galeries Lafayette presented a voluntary departure plan at the end of 2020. From the beginning of the crisis, we demanded that public aid be conditioned socially and ecologically, and that its use be controlled. The numbers of job losses I have just mentioned give us reason. These indecent practices must cease because they fuel a form of impunity. Madam Secretary of State, the Government has a duty to act. What actions is it taking to stop these abuses?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u43	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u44	I know how committed you are to the question of the social, economic and territorial conditionality of aid paid to businesses. I think we share a point of agreement: we had to live up to the situation, and first protect the workers, i.e. women and men, without falling into inequity, but by focusing on them as a priority. The time has now come to go further, to ensure equal pay, to protect the most fragile companies, to encourage social dialogue and to condition aid. This is why the Minister of Labour intends to mobilise, among other things, the long-term partial activity, by making it conditional and by encouraging companies to make public the aid received by communicating it to the SSCs. We believe in social dialogue within companies – as I think you do. Of course, we will never get used to the loss of jobs or the hardship of employees. The highest priority is the safeguarding of jobs. Although firms have been helped unevenly according to their situation, the objective has always remained the same: to protect as many employees as possible. In the last 15 months, France's economic activity has fallen by almost 10% and we have lost – that's far too much – more than 240,000 private jobs. By comparison, more than 480,000 jobs had been destroyed during the 2008-2009 crisis. Job protection must continue. We must now add to it the social and environmental components to which we are attached and which, I believe, everyone here, whatever the bench on which he sits, defends as many elements of our social model. The EMPs do not give rise to dividend payments, MP. Whether it is Renault or Accor, the objective is obviously to save jobs thanks to the ongoing negotiations on the long-term partial activity: this is the priority of the teams concerned. I know the Minister of Labour is fully mobilized and personally engaged on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u45	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u46	The health crisis has shown the usefulness and value of the work of people working in the health and medico-social fields. However, there are serious recruitment problems: many positions, which have lost their attractiveness due to wage differences with jobs that have benefited from the Secur de la santé, remain unfilled. I will remember two examples from recent meetings in the heart of the riding of Puy-de-Dôme that I represent. The first is that of Ambert's home nursing service, which operates as a private non-profit association. Her caregivers and nurses will only benefit from amendment 43 to the National Collective Agreement for Home Care, Care, Care and Services as of October 1, 2021, and will continue to suffer a significant wage differential with their colleagues working in hospitals. In addition, for the support structure, compensation for the support of this revalorisation will be only partial. I stress that home care coverage is at serious risk, which will have profound consequences for the care of older people. The second example concerns the social and medico-social occupations in the adult home attached to the ESAT in Cunlhat. Since this autonomous public institution has not yet benefited from the monthly revalorisation granted in the framework of the Ségur de la santé, the feeling of the staff is that of a lack of consideration, despite its unwavering commitment during the health crisis. In this institution, it is both the maintenance of employment and recruitment that are seriously threatened. This situation not only creates inequality between institutions in the hospital public service, but it clives within the structures itself: the agreements resulting from the Ségur de la santé do not concern all professionals in the social and medico-social sectors, which creates distortions between people – such as educational and social assistants (AES) and educators – who nevertheless intervene in the same units. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] What are the actions taken by the Government to address these problems?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u47	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u48	The Minister of Solidarity and Health is fully mobilized to support all the caregivers, caregivers and all the women and men who have enabled us to overcome the crisis by committing themselves beyond what their duties required and continue to mobilize their energy, even when they thought they had exhausted it. I know you share this concern. We are mobilizing to ensure the attractiveness of these jobs, and compensation is indeed a real issue. In this respect, we adapt our method of work to the situations – you mentioned that of your territory – in order to recreate attractiveness, improve the quality of work and accompany the courses of training within the medico-social sector. Delegated Minister Brigitte Bourguignon and I have worked very hard to inspire the desire to work in one of the most beautiful sectors of activity in the world: that of the human and the accompaniment of the youngest as well as the oldest of our fellow citizens. No caregiver will be forgotten, since everyone will benefit from a salary increase, no later than January 1, 2022. Within the framework of the Sécur de la santé agreements, an additional indexary treatment (CTI) of €183 net per month was granted to 1.5 million healthcare and EHPAD professionals on 1 December 2020, amounting to €6.5 billion. You are wondering about the action of the Government; it has undertaken to examine the situation of staff, whether they work in social or medical-social institutions. Michel Laforcade, who worked with trade unions and employers' federations, was given a mission in this direction. Several agreements have been signed. I will not list them – because I am sure you know them, being particularly committed to this issue – but all healthcare providers in health, social, and medical-social institutions funded by health insurance will benefit, by 1 January 2022 at the latest, from this salary increase, which constitutes recognition of their unwavering commitment to our fellow citizens. We owe it to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u49	Mr Didier Baichère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u50	Over the past twelve months, we have worked to protect all French people tirelessly to deal with the health crisis. Support for young people, investment in skills, and support for and development of economic inclusion and occupational integration were among our priorities. In the first few weeks of containment, in March 2020, young people were the hardest hit by the economic and social crisis. Each of us was able to see this in his constituency: companies could no longer recruit and entire sectors were stopped, depriving young people entering the labour market of solutions. We immediately made a commitment to protect the young generation and its future. Thus, as part of the France Recovery Plan, the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan was deployed in order to guarantee a solution – a job, a mission or a training – to each young person. This choice to strongly help companies to hire young people, we want to integrate it into our employment policy on a sustainable basis. The recently expanded youth guarantee scheme, which has become universal, has proved its worth by enabling young people under 26 years of age who are in great difficulty to enter and find a job. You recently announced €2 billion to support 1 million young people through a support allocation of €500 per month, paid in connection with the local mission advisor, whose role is essential. For a period of 18 months, this allowance will allow young people who will benefit from it to seek employment without having to deal with the financial emergency as a matter of priority. For 2021, the projected workforce needs represent 2.7 million recruitment projects, 30,000 more than in 2019. We note a significant effect of Youth Employment Assistance (YEA), which has resulted in a 2.6-point increase in the employment rate in CDI or CSD of more than three months among young people aged 22-25. At the same time, in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, 60,000 jobs, 90% of them in CDI, were created directly through the AEJ. Can you specify these results and the follow-up that you intend to give to these aids in order to continue to support young people with adapted and flexible arrangements over time?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u51	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u52	The National Assembly and the Senate have indeed enabled the Government to deploy the assistance to which you refer, giving it its confidence in the implementation of the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", which has reached a historic level. More than EUR 9 billion has been invested in the youth sector, because it is our priority and that we must accompany it to help it cope with the consequences of the crisis. But because France's youth is diverse, we have to give it answers to its image. For some of them, who needed financial assistance in order not to remain in a precarious situation, this response took the form, as you pointed out, of the youth guarantee. But it also resides in human accompaniment – because we take a fair and human look at every young person. If a young person is to be assisted in a comprehensive manner, he or she must be provided with housing and access to health care, or with a view to combating the non-use of rights. All this requires investment and mobilization of local missions. The Minister of Labour has also strengthened their human resources, allocating an additional EUR 120 million to these structures that accompany young people. Beyond the youth guarantee, our course has always been the same: the horizon, for every young person in France, is social and economic integration. To do so, several actions are taken. You mentioned the 60,000 jobs created by helping young people to hire, which allows them to gain faster access to the labour market. We have also broken record in the development of learning. This success is, in fact, the result of the work undertaken in 2017 with the reforms of vocational training and learning, which have allowed to change the society's view of learning. This restored confidence, to which, let us recall, the payment of an aid of 5000 or 8000 euros for each contract signed, helped 550,000 apprentices to find a contract and allowed to protect young people who make the choice of this path of excellence to enter the labour market. Beyond that, we accompany the training of each young person and the integration of those who are furthest from employment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I could go on for hours, so much the youth, which we make our priority, is at the heart of the daily activities of all the ministries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u53	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u54	I would like to associate my colleague Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, who cannot be present today. The health crisis has severely affected the country's economic activity, both in terms of businesses and in terms of French employment. The massive aid for partial activity deployed by the Government and the majority has certainly been beneficial. It was our responsibility to protect the employment of our citizens and to preserve the skills within companies despite the crisis, which is far greater than in 2008. The transformation of the partial-activity scheme has provided France with the most protective system in Europe: at the peak of the crisis, one in four people in employment benefited from the scheme, which enabled them to receive 84% of their net salary for more than one year. Many employers have also completed these remunerations to reach 100%. All of this currently allows for a dynamic recovery. I was still discussing this a few minutes ago with a company manager on the station dock: many companies are struggling to recruit. Fifteen posts are open in a shopping centre in Bain-de-Bretagne, ten are to be filled in the company Périn &am p; Cie de Redon and five others are vacant in a restaurant. We have also been able to pay attention to the needs of companies and employees in this post-crisis situation. This is why the reduction of aid will be gradual and adapted to the needs of everyone. Companies struggling to restart will benefit from additional aid. Support will continue through the long-term partial activity: this measure provided for under the recovery plan will protect 800,000 employees for a period of up to 24 months. Seasonals and short-term employees were the first victims of the crisis. We have already been able to measure the remarkable results achieved in these particularly vulnerable areas, such as mountain resorts. The opening of the partial activity to seasonal workers prevented the collapse of hirings: 85% of seasonal workers working on lifts returned to their jobs this year despite the closure last winter. Considerable sums had been mobilized, protective measures had been taken and the tsunami of business failures and layoffs seemed to have been avoided. Can you take stock of these 15 months of crisis and clarify the impact of this unprecedented mobilization of the State in favour of employment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u55	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u56	You are right: the priority of priorities was to protect the men and women who work and their families. In the face of the health crisis, the Government and the majority have made a choice: to protect life, jobs and families. This is why, in 2020, more than EUR 27 billion has enabled, through support for partial activity and the ongoing negotiations to establish mechanisms of long-term partial activity, to protect families and safeguard their daily lives. We have to call him back! This expenditure will again reach more than EUR 10 billion in 2021, a total of EUR 37 billion of protective investments – because that is how we conceive them. Our vision of society is indeed one of attachment to the men and women who make it up. After having ensured this protection, our duty now is to accompany the actors, with common sense and taking a look adapted to each territorial particularity. I know, honourable Member, that Mrs Cloarec - you and Le Nabour are committed to providing specific answers to the coastal, hotel, restaurant and mountain sectors. The Government shares this desire to analyse each difficulty in responding to it. This is why aid will evolve gradually and there will be no dry exit from crisis mechanisms. Our action is not required anonymously or without discussion, on the contrary: it is perfectly adapted to each sector, with a high priority given to young people. The Minister of Labour is calling for a general mobilisation to fill vacancies. This phenomenon concerns for example 90,000 jobs in the construction and public works sector (BTP), even though unemployment persists or many young people do not find summer or seasonal jobs. It is therefore important to forward these offers to Pôle Emploi in order to speed up hiring. We highlight the site 1jeune1solution.gouv.fr, a unique gateway that will constantly adapt to offer solutions in terms of human support and employment, in particular by creating a link with the professions of the future, those who recruit, so that the network is no longer a factor in increasing inequalities. Every young person deserves to find his place and his path, it is the mobilization of all who will enable us to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u57	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u58	Since the beginning of our mandate, we have had a great ambition for our young people by investing unprecedentedly in quality accompanying courses adapted to each young person to help them enter fully into active life. Our project is to support them all towards success. This also involves the multiplication of integration pathways for the most vulnerable of them, the development of skills training, the reform of apprenticeship to finance alternance which offers excellent results in terms of occupational integration. This momentum could have been halted by the health crisis, but we have resolutely refused to keep our youth at the door of the professional world. Thus, despite the crisis, it should be stressed that the integration of young people remains good, thanks to your voluntarism, through the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", widely welcomed, and thanks to which, for example, the apprenticeship – you have spoken about it at the moment – has again had a record year in 2020 with more than 516,000 apprentices. One of the measures taken is to extend from three to six months after the start of their training the period during which apprentices can find a host company. Since this six-month period has recently come to an end, could you tell us to what extent the new apprentices of 2020 have been able to find an employer and, on the other hand, will be able to obtain their diploma under as good conditions as if the context had been more normal? Today the activity resumes. As I have seen in my girondine constituency, companies in many sectors, such as building and catering, are struggling to recruit apprentices. We must therefore continue to promote entry into apprenticeships, particularly for infra-bac and baccalaureate levels. This brings me to my second question: what are your ways of continuing to develop learning in these busy professions and making young people want to join these sectors of activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u59	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u60	I know that, since the beginning of this mandate, you have been particularly committed to the question of learning, especially of young people, because you feel, like us, that this is the way of excellence, the way of training by a third party, and even a French art, as the President of the Republic likes to say. Learning allows us not only to keep jobs in our territories but also and above all to accompany each young person in a much more humane way. It offers everyone the opportunity to build their journey, step by step, and to gain experience that allows them to adapt, integrate and grow with them. Thanks to the results of the reforms voted by the majority and implemented by the Government since 2017, the learning sector has been able to go through this crisis without being hit, which was absolutely fundamental. To the very specific questions that you asked me, I now want to provide numerical answers. It is 80% of the CFA, apprenticeship training centres, which offer young people higher education. Together with the Minister of Labour, we have shown pragmatism, with the aim of accompanying young people and the CFAs to enable this adaptation and to create a bridge between the jobs of the territory and the desires of young people. Several actions have been carried out to this end: job dating operations, the recasting of the apprenticeship portal, the deployment of maps presenting the training offer in connection with the bodies, but also the acceleration of the payment of learning aids, i.e. 8000 euros for the recruitment of a major. This last measure, which is part of the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, is very concrete because it has helped to lift the brakes of companies. It will of course be extended until 31 December. We will continue to develop learning on the basis of the major challenges of our time – I am thinking in particular of sporting events – but we are also working to make it much more attractive by facilitating international mobility, in particular European mobility. This republican promise, which I know is important to you, is valid for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u61	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u62	A pandemic such as that of coronavirus has forced governments, elected officials and residents to adapt very quickly and to adopt emergency measures to deal with it at all levels. Such a crisis is also a way to rethink our systems and modes of operation, in order to be better prepared for future shocks. This is all the more true for rural areas, which have served as refuges for urban dwellers and are now experiencing a new boom, as the inhabitants have found a healthier and more natural way of life there. Looking at the long term, the pandemic could change patterns of production and consumption, remote working patterns and forms of mobility, which could open up new opportunities for sustainable growth in rural areas. The review of the globalization of production chains could also offer new horizons in some areas. However, businesses and residents are subject to various pressures, including those arising from the pandemic and containment measures. The crisis has had and will have an impact on the economy and well-being of rural areas in the short to medium to long term. Mr Barrot's report proposes, moreover, to pay particular attention to twenty-one areas of employment where the frailties before and after the crisis of the covid-19, as in the Moselle where I am elected, overlap. I can attest to this, the Mosellan elected officials and economic actors have shown great adaptability, and have constantly innovated for the well-being of the inhabitants. But they can't act on their own. Thus, in my view, ruralism must become one of France's main strategic priorities. First and foremost, the revitalisation of employment areas, the opening up of these territories and the revitalization of businesses. Our rural areas will be great reservoirs for the future if we manage to value their wealth. Madam Secretary of State, what is your assessment of the rural crisis? How can we support these territories, and therefore their inhabitants, which suffer from a real structural problem in terms of maintaining and, above all, developing employment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u63	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u64	Madam Member, I had the chance to make a trip to your territory in your presence. On that occasion, I saw how much the ecosystem you make live relies on the wealth of your territory to provide answers. It is thanks to the will of the President of the Republic – it is worth recalling – that there is now a State Secretariat for Rural Affairs, because it is a priority. Several interdepartmental committees on rural areas have been held to explore all the wealth of these territories, as well as to examine all their difficulties and to remove them one after the other. Some projects are of particular interest to me, as well as to my colleague Joël Giraud. I am thinking of territorial volunteerism in administration, the VTA, made possible also thanks to Elizabeth Borne. It involves welcoming young graduates to rural areas who bring expertise or experience that is not necessarily available at that time. I am sure – and you will agree with me, Madam Member – that when we tasted the quality of life in our rural areas, we will not leave them anymore. Beyond this scheme, which lasts 12 to 18 months, our support for the social revitalization of certain territories also involves work on infrastructure – I know how much my colleagues Cédric O and Jacqueline Gourault are mobilized on these issues. I am thinking in particular of the development of France services houses, the need to provide information but also to offer a quality connection. The recent use of telework has shown that Internet access is limited in some areas. The Prime Minister's approach on this point is clear: white areas must be combated because this is one of the necessary conditions for the economic development of rural areas. In addition, the signing of recovery and environmental transition contracts is intended, among other things, to speed up the development of third places, defended by Mrs Gourault. I wanted to give several examples in order to illustrate the mobilization of the entire government collective, each in its field, from the Minister of National Education, with the measures of protection and accompanying in schools, to the Minister for Cohesion of the Territories, with the development of infrastructures, to the Secretary of State for Rural Affairs, with the measures to attract new talents and new families to the rural territories so that the latter would maintain their dynamism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u65	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor for her second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u66	It is a little more technical but just as important. As we all know, in the face of the crisis, the Government has deployed a truly new stimulus plan of more than 100 billion euros – an amount that will probably increase in a short time – in order to maintain the French business ecosystem and the employment of employees. Among these devices are the long-term partial activity, the APLD. The APLD, which came into force on 1 August, is dedicated to healthy businesses, but faces a multi-month air hole due to their operations. This agreement covers a partial activity lasting 24 months, whether consecutive or non-consecutive, over a period of up to 36 months, and allows for the definition of an economic diagnosis, the list of eligible employees or the employer's commitments in terms of employment or training, all in return for partial payment of remuneration by the State and UNEDIC. But despite a tailor-made agreement with the social partners to meet the needs of certain branches and avoid loss of income of employees, the APLD seems to suffer from competition from the partial activity agreement of common law, the APD, much better known to entrepreneurs. More than 40 branch agreements – in industry, wholesale trade or leather goods – were concluded, representing 700000 employees, but only 150000 of them were the subject of a claim for compensation for the month of January, compared with more than 2 million in the case of partial activity under ordinary law. Three causes could explain this discrepancy: too much formalism, leading to the reluctance of entrepreneurs; the lack of financial incentives to focus on APLD rather than ODA; Finally, the fact that the CDPA makes it possible to make individual requests per employee, contrary to the ordinary law, which offers less flexibility to employers. Madam Secretary of State, how do you intend to ensure that companies that have signed long-term partial activity agreements make more use of them than of partial activity under ordinary law? This question is very technical but important for our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u67	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u68	Since your question is very technical, you will allow me to give you an answer of the same nature. The development of the APLD has been promoted by the Minister of Labour because it is a mechanism for providing specific responses to each sector. However, some companies and industries must continue to negotiate. There are 58 branch agreements, of which 48 are extended, with some 10 other branches under negotiation. More than 8 million employees are covered by these branch agreements. At the enterprise level, there are about 8,000 collective agreements, which affect almost 630,000 employees. Unilateral documents concerning some 180,000 employees were also signed. As long as the most favourable measures are applied in the context of the partial activity, they will benefit companies with an LLDA. This is essential because it corresponds to the social and protective approach that we wish to encourage and that is in keeping with Elizabeth Borne's will. This means that a specific remaining burden is foreseen, that the period of decline in activity due to confinement is neutralised, but also that the measures of retention in employment and training remain fully applicable. On the other hand, support will be more beneficial in the long run. I therefore share your question and your concern, Madam Member. The use of partial activity in ordinary law must in fact remain part of a constructive social dialogue. In the case of an APLD, for the employee, the remuneration must be 84% of the net salary instead of 72% in the ordinary law; for the employer, the remaining burden is 15%, compared with 40% in the ordinary law; the floor is fixed EUR 8.11 instead of EUR 7.30 in the ordinary law. Finally, it is legally impossible to provide for the possibility for seasonal workers to be placed in LLDAs, but with this mechanism, our aim is to preserve jobs on a permanent basis and to avoid dismissals and not to introduce a new scheme for the care of employees in a category of jobs. The main thing is that we are willing to accompany each sector by examining each situation in a specific way. The Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration is mobilised on this issue on a daily basis for each territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u69	This first question-and-answer session is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u70	The next item is the question of funding vaccine research against covid-19. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u71	To date, France is the only permanent member of the UN Security Council that has failed to develop a covid vaccine. We must take this fact very seriously, because it shows what our capacities are for therapeutic innovation – in addition to the disappointments we have experienced on masks and tests. Indeed, 2020 was not an accident of course: there is indeed a structural problem that is currently suffering therapeutic innovation in France, knowing that we have moved from a European leader in the pharmaceutical industry to a fourth place in fifteen years. On Monday, June 7, during a debate on Public Senate, the Secretary of State for the Digital Transition, Cédric O, denounced an over-control on the development of biotechnology that would have been caused by a misuse of the precautionary principle in principle of inaction. That would be the explanation for the French delay in the vaccination strategy. In particular, it targeted clinical trials, which would be governed by a much too restrictive framework. I have looked at this hypothesis and I take this question-and-answer session to ask you, Madam Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Where does the Secretary of State's explanation come from? Is it well-founded and to what extent is it specifically relevant to clinical trials? For me, the precautionary principle is not a principle of inaction, but a principle of action aimed first of all at preventing decision-making which would prove to be destructive from a physical point of view, but also ethical. There is a need to relativize the flight of clinical trials outside France: if the figures remain very high, it should be noted that even in countries such as Great Britain and Germany, half of the start-ups have conducted clinical trials abroad. A study by the Geneva Institute of Advanced International Studies and Development compiled the investments made by countries and agencies to finance vaccine research against covid-19: the two largest contributors, and by far, are the United States and Germany. I would therefore like to know the Government's position on the funding of covid-19 vaccine research in France. Are you planning to catch up with this flagrant delay in terms of funding?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u72	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u73	First of all, you are asking the question of the precautionary principle. This is obviously an essential principle and you know that France, on several occasions, has been able to avoid a number of tragedies by applying it. But, as you pointed out, the precautionary principle must not be synonymous with the principle of inaction. This is why, from the beginning of the pandemic, several mechanisms have been put in place, starting with what has been called a fast track, which has made it possible to fund all vaccine research projects, including clinical trials, extremely quickly. We had the chance to already have the REACTing device, set up to respond to Ebola-related issues, which allowed us to be among the first contributors to the clinical trial platforms needed to test all vaccines – a process that is still ongoing, since there are still volunteer recruitments. In the first European trial in which France participated, our country was the first to include several hundred patients. It is true that we have encountered a difficulty: regulations and legislation varying from one European country to another, our partners have had to adapt their own and have had more or less difficulty joining us, despite their commitment to participate in a massive clinical trial at European level. All of this to conclude, honourable Member, that the funding has of course been at the meeting and that, with regard to vaccine testing platforms, we have not only been among the first, but are still in a position to host new clinical trials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u74	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u75	My question concerns the development of vaccines, their production and their access in France and Europe, all of which the fact-finding mission on health coordination in Europe of the National Assembly's Committee on European Affairs has to know at present. France and the European Union have fallen behind in funding medical research and life sciences in comparison with, for example, the United Kingdom or the United States. Moreover, investment levels are very different across the EU: public R & D credits for health – excluding research tax credits – have generally decreased by 28% between 2011 and 2018, while they have increased by 16% in the UK and 11% in Germany, according to OECD data – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – included in Economic Analysis Board notes. At the same time, studies suggest that funding is not used in research with the best international standards. France and the European Union as a whole have also fallen behind in their access to covid vaccines due to the length of authorisation procedures. Thus, the Pfizer vaccine was authorised in the United States in mid-December, three weeks before the European Union, although it was then the most affected region of the world; The same was true for the Moderna vaccine. After authorisation in the European Union, some countries, including France, added a national validation procedure – but every month counts! My question is threefold: what means are envisaged for research and which are not just catching up, but also what procedure is common to the various European states to ensure the safety and effectiveness of future vaccines and, lastly, what strategy is there to ensure that the productions most useful for care are carried out, if not all in France or in the Union, at least according to rules capable of ensuring their safety and reciprocity in terms of investments and supplies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u76	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u77	The procedures for authorising the use of medicines or vaccines are, as you know, national procedures. But we have, of course, benefited from a joint analysis of all the countries of the European Union in the field of health safety with regard to the benefit-risk ratio for the different vaccines placed on the market. Some countries have chosen to go faster and therefore not to carry out as many checks as in the European Union, but the French authorities, in the wake of European authorisations, have validated their use. Where I join you, and we have discussed it at length, is the finding of a chronic lack of funding for research in France. It dates back to the 2000s when our country, as part of the Lisbon process, committed to funding its research to the tune of 3% of gross domestic product – 1% of public funding and 2% of private funding. And this is the whole purpose of the Research Programming Act for the years 2021 to 2030, which allows €25 billion to be injected into research programmes over the next ten years, which means that the research budget will have increased by €5 billion in ten years, of which €1 billion will be spent on health biology and biomedical research. The Government has also, through future investment programmes and the recovery plan, injected a further several billion euros in the next two years and five years in order to make up for the situation. As for the possibility of defending our sovereignty, that is to say to produce the medicines ourselves, I announce that last week, the Minister of Health, the Minister responsible for industry and I signed an amendment to the strategic contract of the health industries and technologies sector in order to be able to promote, activate and amplify the relocation of production in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u78	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u79	Whether it seemed far away, the time of the Jennerean vaccination or that of Pasteur, that time when vaccination was really a matter of life or death. But international containment and millions of deaths have once again imposed the urgency of the vaccine. Yet, while standing at the top of the world's economic powers, we have been unable to lead this global vaccine race. Why be surprised, when we invest 87 times less than Germany and 125 times less than the United States in basic vaccine research? This probably explains the results found in the case of the covid episode. Aborting a vaccine is usually the result of a long process. In this pandemic, however, the scientific creativity encouraged, it must be stressed, with colossal funding, has made it possible to achieve an unprecedented biotechnology prowess. And that's probably where it hurts for France while in Germany, the choice has been made to massively support a very broad spectrum of research, technology and teams to give each other every chance to succeed. The German government supported nine research programmes; In the United States, eight companies were selected for an ambitious program to facilitate and accelerate the development of a vaccine to the tune of $10 billion, with Moderna alone benefiting from $2.5 billion. I could also have referred to Great Britain, which has launched a strategy of cooperation between all the organisations concerned – health agencies and academic institutions – and to which we owe the identification of more than 45% of the total genome of this coronavirus through its various variants. In a hollow, these absolutely impressive results draw the contours of the French scientific fiasco, entangled that we are in bodies and committees without steering or coordination, and focused for a time on a upuesque debate on hydroxychloroquine. For your information, please note that on Sunday, March 22, 2020, the word "chloroquine" was pronounced 250 times on BFM TV! So my question is simple: what are you going to do from this episode in order to try to correct what can be done by ensuring that the institutions are respected and that they are properly coordinated? For when everyone considers himself as the first epidemiologist in France, unfortunately we are all losers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u80	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u81	You recalled the incredible scientific and technological prowess that allowed the development of vaccines against covid-19 in record time. It is a true success of biotechnology and a real achievement. This was made possible because, before the health crisis, many countries – including France, I would like to remind you – were working on the issue of vaccination platforms to generalize the vaccination processes planned for other types of pathologies and which could have been adapted to covid-19. The development, in particular, of RNA vaccine technology is the result of more than 20 years of research on messenger RNAs in order to stabilize them, these vaccines being developed curatively for, in particular, cancer immunotherapy. A tremendous mobilization of pharmaceutical companies, supported in particular by the US Warp Speed program, has made it possible to parallel the stages of development. The French choice focused on the use of the measles platform, i.e. the use of measles-derived vaccine to prepare the vaccine against covid. Everything suggested that this platform could provide a very good vaccine, the interest being also that its deployment around the world would have been facilitated by its easy way of production. Unfortunately, and this is the lot of the research, the phases of preclinical trials have not been successful. It is not, however, that vaccine research in France does not produce its effects: we still have other vaccines in production, especially against variants that might escape the current vaccines, or for re-accination or for African countries. As you can see, all vaccine research continues to be mobilized. It is not because, as is often the case in research, choices do not materialize that we must cast reproach on the whole of French research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u82	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u83	France Biotech's 2021 report points to a lack of national champions in the field, who are hampered by a difficulty in attracting experienced and multidisciplinary teams: "Knowledge and the ability to execute must be strengthened at all levels in the ecosystem: a successful transition to scale involves an experienced and internationally recognized team on each of the key positions, support by specialised investors, expertise within regulators and evaluators, and a culture of mobility and adaptability to meet the challenges that are evolving during the life of Health Tech. » A recent hearing by OPECST – the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices – revealed a lack of trained personnel on the specific issues of biotechnology. There are some excellent training courses, but there are too few professionals leaving the training courses in relation to the country's needs to form a competitive sector. Moreover, the fragmentation between the business world, the teaching and health centres of university hospitals (CHUs), medical homes, etc., does not encourage the rise of skills and innovation. In addition to these structural factors, there are cyclical factors which may have explained the French delay. Out of one hundred and twenty-two Health Tech companies surveyed in 2020 by France Biotech, twenty-three had engaged in research against covid -19. Of these twenty-three companies, ten now face financial or cash flow difficulties, as well as clinical or logistical problems such as accessibility of sites, closed petries, etc. All the players in the industry – industrialists, researchers, entrepreneurs, administration and patients – share the same observation. Without adequate funding, without an ecosystem of industries and universities, French innovation is extinguished before developing. In short, to secure its growth, we need an equivalent from the BARDA – Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority – the US agency that funds and supports biomedical research. A health emergency response authority, Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority (HERA), is planned to be established by the end of 2023, based on the BARDA model. When and how do you intend to participate in the creation of this European agency? How can France contribute effectively to the HERA while maintaining its autonomy and independence?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u84	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u85	I can only share your observation. Indeed, in these areas of research, France lacks attractiveness and agility, but the law of research programming is there to remedy it. The academic world remains very waterproof and works little with biotechnology companies, start-ups or large industrial groups. The process that had been initiated by the Allègre Act, continued by the Act on Business Growth and Transformation, known as the PACTE, is further enhanced in this programming law. Europe has found that it lacks an equivalent of the BARDA. This is how this new structure, which will be called HERA, was designed. It will allow us to better prepare ourselves for the occurrence of health crises, whatever they may be: biological, chemical or radiological. Neither France nor Europe had such a tool. The principle is that of the association between research and development financing (R&amp;D), public procurement contracts and countermeasures to compensate for the risks inherent in R&amp;D. Indeed, it requires colossal investments, and the companies that make them need the state's relief net. This scheme was tested in France in the context of the health crisis, thanks to the investment programme for the future (PIA), and amplified through European programmes. The President of Public Health France has been appointed by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health in the high-level group that is preparing the famous European agency. We are engaged, in particular with the ANRS Emerging Infectious Diseases, in the preparation of upstream research partnerships that can feed the entire chain. But we must make sure that no link is missing. Unfortunately, this is still the case today, but the law on the programming of research will make it possible to remedy this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u86	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u87	The Sanofi France pharmaceutical group is developing its vaccine, which has recently gone into phase 3, that of large-scale clinical trials. However, vaccine research must continue in the long term, and it will continue. Pasteur's country still has a role to play in this field at the forefront of the international scene. The Covireivac platform, launched in October 2020 and coordinated by INSERM – Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médical – and F-CRIN – French Clinical Research Infrastructure Network – will undoubtedly enable France to be a major player in covid-19 research. Indeed, this platform, in connection with thirty-two CHUs and a network of eleven immunology laboratories, is the translation of a genuine desire to demand that vaccine research on this disease be continued. Many questions remain unanswered: the duration of protection, the average effectiveness of vaccinations, the quality of the immune response, the need for the third dose or a regular booster. In this regard, research on the COMPARE cohort (community of patients for research) and the "Cov-Compare" trials represent an ambitious program that reflects French excellence and perfection in vaccine research. Minister, can you tell us more about this program, its ambitions and its international reach? It seems to be of crucial importance to make France a major player in global covid vaccine research -19. How is it financed and what future does the Government intend to provide for this funding?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u88	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u89	As you said, in order to accelerate the development of vaccines, the Covireivac platform, which was launched in October, allows volunteers to register online to participate in vaccine clinical trials in France. These are tests on vaccines that have been designed in France or elsewhere; We are thus participating in the European and global effort. Today, more than 30,000 volunteers have registered, and we can all thank them. Piloted by INSERM, this platform hosts industrial trials for vaccine candidates and represents the French node of the European project VACCELERATE, funded by the European Commission. Currently, three trials are in phase 3: the Janssen vaccine, the candidate CureVac and the Sanofi vaccine you mentioned. There are also trials in Phase 2, with academic promotion. Indeed, the results of this phase must be conclusive for us to begin in phase 3. These clinical trials will allow us to determine whether periodic re-accination is necessary, how the vaccine responds to first-infected people and those who have never been ill. These comparative studies also allow us to analyze side effects with or without prior infection. The relay is provided within the framework of the IAP4's "emerging infectious diseases" strategy, to which we have chosen to devote more than €80 million, a strategy deployed and financed at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u90	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u91	None of the many vaccines developed so far have come from French research. Neither the Institut Pasteur nor the Sanofi laboratory have seen their research succeed. Sanofi is just starting its Phase 3 trials, which means that in the best case its vaccine will be launched almost a year after the first products are distributed. However, there is no shortage of scientific culture or brilliant minds in France. What it clearly lacks is substantial long-term financing and investment, which is essential for research. We all have in mind the words of the executive director of Sanofi who explained that once licensed, his vaccine would be distributed first in the United States because they had funded the research extensively. French research suffers from chronic underfunding and precarisation of the teams, and the law of programming of the research voted this year will only answer impeccably. How can we explain that we missed the messenger RNA technique, which is ten years old? In reality, France has missed the turn of biotechnology. How – fundamental question – straighten the bar and make up for the backlog? What new funding is available for research? How can synergies between French and European biotechnology companies and French laboratories be improved?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u92	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u93	I briefly explained the adventure, or misadventure, of the vaccine developed by the Institut Pasteur and the industrial MSD-Merck. This is part of the vagaries of research. Let us not forget that, normally, the development of a vaccine takes several years – in general, it is closer to ten years than a year. Sanofi Pasteur has chosen to develop a recombinant protein vaccine, known as a subunit. Phase 3 trials have started, but purification of this protein is difficult. Quality problems are common in vaccine production. It is important to welcome the entry into phase 3 of this vaccine, which will be easier to distribute around the world than many of its competitors. Prior to the health crisis, France had not initiated research on RNA technology applied to vaccination, but teams were working on these therapeutic technologies against cancer. This illustrates the fact that it is difficult to predict which drugs and technologies will be successful. We have chosen to reinvest massively in research through the stimulus plan, the IAP and the research programming law. Contrary to what you say, this law will restore attractiveness to scientific careers in France. For example, it is not negligible to have significantly increased the level of recruitment of young doctors. The Sanofi messenger RNA vaccine project is also progressing. Of course, it may be considered late, but it will allow Sanofi to appropriate this new technology and anticipate. What is important in failures is our ability to learn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u94	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u95	As you know, the need for vaccines in the southern countries is an immediate and essential problem. It is an issue of solidarity, but also of efficiency and public health. Yet the WHO – World Health Organization – warns us: almost 90% of African countries will miss the global goal of immunizing one tenth of their population by September if they do not receive at least 225 million vaccines urgently. I know France and the European Union are very involved in the VOCAX system – VOCID-19 Vaccines Global Access – but I also know that so far the target set has not been achieved, hence the recent commitment of the G7 countries to give a billion extra doses, even if there is a blur around this announcement, which is also, as we know, a response to China. What is France's and Europe's long-term strategy? We know the debate between those who support the lifting of patents and those who reject it in the name of protecting innovation. I believe it is necessary to clarify France's position, especially since the European Parliament, in disagreement with the Commission, voted on Thursday for a temporary lifting of patents in order to develop production. Minister, what is your strategy to support long-term vaccine research and production, and how do you intend to honour the promise of President Emmanuel Macron to make the vaccine a global public good?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u96	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u97	This issue was central to the discussions that the President of the Republic held with his G7 counterparts in Carbis Bay this weekend. For France, the priority is to make the vaccine a global public good, which means making it accessible to all. That is the meaning of our support for the VOCAX initiative. Dose donations were at the heart of the ads. This movement was, as you recalled, committed by France, which, as early as November 2020, called on France to participate in this reflection and, as early as February, to share the doses. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify our position on the lifting of patents on vaccines. A fair reward for innovation is essential for our societies and for the sustainability of our research efforts, particularly in the area of health. But the question of intellectual property can and must be asked, because there must be no obstacle to the production and universal distribution of vaccines, in the context of the current pandemic as well as, potentially, those to come. The urgency is to work in practice to implement the exemptions already provided for in the legal framework, because we do not care about the announcement effects: the United States says it supports the lifting of patents on vaccines without putting forward any concrete proposals on how we could achieve this. As you know, if we were to engage in these discussions, it would be for several years. We are therefore working very concretely on dose donation and vaccine plant projects in Africa to enable direct production of these vaccines. We exchange with several laboratories so that they can engage with us in this production in Africa and we call on our partners who, like the United States, manufacture vaccines or their components not to impose unjustified restrictions on exports of these products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u98	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u99	With regard to the funding of vaccine research, the question that should be of concern to all of us here is: why was France not able to finance and produce a vaccine against covid-19? What does that say about the state of research in our country, our funding system, and, above all, the progressive but dramatic disengagement of the state from public research and basic research? How can we continue to finance large private groups, who do not need them, through the research tax credit (CIR), without expecting anything in return? They are the ones who benefit most: half of the RIC is taken over by fifty large groups, those who benefit from it, while 80% of the R & D job creation takes place in companies with less than 500 employees. It is they who benefit while, according to the Institut des politiques publiques (IPP), there is no evidence that the IRC is adapted to develop innovation, and that France Strategy's recent report confirms that it is an ineffective formula. Of course, it is especially the crisis profitors like Sanofi who enjoy it. This group has accumulated 1 billion euros of public money in ten years via the CIR; This group will have unscrupulously, in 2020, both increased its net profit by 340 %, increased its dividend and benefited from the tax reduction and was not able to produce a vaccine; This group, which, above all, while it was receiving all this money, did not hesitate to close one more research centre and dismiss hundreds of people in research alone. How can we let that happen, especially after the lessons of the covid crisis? How can these large groups be allowed to make such profits without social compensation, without doing anything to stop them from favouring their small profits rather than public health? What could we have done if all this money, these billions of euros, had instead, as researchers have demanded for several decades, benefited from their research and basic research?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u100	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u101	The danger of infectious diseases, as we have experienced in recent months, has come to upset our daily lives, but it is also a danger to which we must prepare. We must therefore – France, Europe – invest massively to rebuild our health sovereignty. We have already chosen to do so by accompanying our big companies, but also our start-ups, in order to allow us to produce doses in France – 20 million doses per month will be produced in our territory – and to continue to accompany the start-ups from the laboratories, what are called spin-offs. I think it is very important to be able to continue to do so. As I said earlier, it is an issue of ecosystem and, in fact, continuity in the chain between academic research, the emergence of innovations, breaking innovations, the ability of our country and Europe to invest to support this emergence and then move to production. I know that the debate on the CIR is almost permanent. One must know, a research budget, in France as in other countries, is always two thirds of private investment and one third of public investment. The fact that, after 20 years of promises, we are finally increasing public investment to 1 % of GDP will enable us to reach 3 %, precisely because we are able to have this leverage effect and ensure that our companies invest much more massively in research and development in parallel with the investment made by the State. I believe it is essential to work mainly on the continuity of the innovation chain with small and large companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u102	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u103	All this is a little bit of bla-bla because, during this time, Sanofi has gone from eleven research centres to three in a few years, with billions of money received for investment and public research. The second question is the question of the lifting of patents. I have heard my colleague Castellani talk about it, but I am still going to ask my question. In June 2020, the President of the Republic explained that he was absolutely in favour of the lifting of patents. In February 2021, a proposal was presented to the World Trade Organization (WTO) by India and South Africa, which France opposed. Secondly, Mr Biden said he was in favour and, above all, the European Parliament voted in favour of the lifting of patents. The President of the Republic then explained to us that the important thing was to be able to give doses, and not necessarily the lifting of patents. We are a little worried about these volte-faces on an issue that we believe is fundamental because, as you know, according to the VOCAX studies, at best 10% of the populations in poor countries will be able to be vaccinated by the end of 2021. We have a terrible danger here that a large part of the world's population does not have access to vaccines. The solution, whatever we say, is that it escapes the market, that is, that we can be decision-makers. And to be decision-makers, we need to lift these patents, which belong today to the large groups of pharmaceutical laboratories – which, too, have often benefited from state aid. We heard in the G7 the President of the Republic explain that he wanted to work on a modified version of India's and South Africa's initial request, working with WHO, WTO, our partners, that he hoped that this would allow for an agreement at this G7. Except his volte-face leaves us dubious about this work. Are these changes not going to empty the original request of its substance, for example? We had no reliable and concrete information. I would therefore like you to give us some, because it is absolutely essential that we end up achieving this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u104	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u105	As the President of the Republic has made very clear, we are in principle in favour of removing the constraints of intellectual property to allow the production of vaccines around the world, particularly in Africa. But there is also a principle of reality. The goal is that we can vaccinate as many people as possible in the world, because it is our common interest and that the later we can vaccinate, the more variants can emerge and the more unfortunately the pandemic can resume. It is therefore a moral duty, a duty of solidarity, to do so towards middle-income countries and the poorest countries. But do you really think, Mr Coquerel, that it is enough to say that there is no more intellectual property for plants to emerge in Africa and to be able to produce vaccines with technologies as complex as messenger RNA vaccines or adenovirus vaccines? We therefore give priority first of all to the donation of doses; I think it is very important that we can do this very quickly, and that is why we have committed ourselves to the G7 on more than a billion extra doses by the end of 2022. The second thing is to make it possible to produce more in existing plants and to accompany the establishment, as I said earlier, of factories in Africa. It is the industrial players who must accompany us to produce more vaccines. The third thing is indeed to help all countries that can produce these vaccines in as little time as possible. If we were to solve the problems of intellectual property before, there would be two to three years of negotiations before we were able to do so, as I recalled earlier. The President of the United States has expressed his will, but we are still waiting to work on the agreements that will allow the lifting of this intellectual property. These are the three areas on which we are working. There are three of them, there is the issue of patents, but there is an urgent need to be able to distribute doses around the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u106	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u107	The finding is bitter. Unlike the U.S. with the vaccines of Moderna and Johnson &am p; Johnson, unlike the US-Germany alliance with Pfizer-BioNTech, unlike China with Sinovac, unlike the UK-Sweden alliance with AstraZeneca, and even unlike Russia with Sputnik V, French biomedical research, both in the academic and industrial sectors, was unable to respond to the emergency created by the covid -19 pandemic. This failure is due to a number of factors: a decline in public funding for basic research, a delegation to the pharmaceutical research industry, and a lack of conditionalities on public aid to laboratories through the IRC. France's weakening in the field of medical research calls for a massive intervention by the public authorities, guaranteeing a regained health sovereignty. This obviously implies a significant increase in public funding for basic research carried out by public bodies such as the CNRS – National Centre for Scientific Research – or INSERM. At the same time, it is necessary to build public tools for public control of the vaccine and treatment production chain. For several years now, our group has been pursuing the idea of a public drug centre at national and European level, capable of intervening both in biomedical research and in the production of treatments that would make it possible to no longer be placed under the dependence of large pharmaceutical laboratories in the event of pandemics and shortages. We still have quality researchers and industrial know-how in France. Our proposal could be the way to make use of all these powers. My question is therefore simple: what measures does the Government intend to take to regain public control in the field of research and the production of treatments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u108	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u109	You are right, there is a massive need to reinvest in research in France and we have had the opportunity to debate it for hours. That is why the law on the programming of research, the programme of investments of the future and France is relaunching, which span respectively ten, five and two years, will allow us to reinvest massively in French research as soon as next year. There is a need to raise wages, to restore attractiveness, to restore freedom and flexibility, to put resources back into the laboratories, to put resources back into the future. We need to put resources on the whole research because, as I mentioned earlier, it is very difficult to know in advance what kind of knowledge will one day generate a vaccine. As you know, this is a top priority of this government and it is one of my priorities. In the area of health, you are right, we have identified two key areas in which we need to reinvest massively, two ecosystems of excellence where we already have all the assets to succeed. It is first of all digital health, which is probably one of the major issues of tomorrow. Of course we must respond to today's crisis, but we must also look to the future. Thus, the Paris Santé Campus project requested by the President of the Republic will provide massive support and investment. These are then biotherapies: cellular therapies, gene therapies..., production also, to make France the place in Europe where will be reinvented and again produced the therapies of tomorrow. Last week I signed the strategic contract for the health industries sector, which will make France the European leader in bioproduction and biotherapy. Finally, as you said, it is not enough to do research, you must also be able to produce. This is why the Government will mobilize more than €460 million through Bpifrance to support all companies to relocate existing treatments or develop new innovative therapies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u110	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u111	Big Pharmaes have received a lot of public support, including in our country – I'm thinking of the CIR, but not just – and one can wonder about the effectiveness of the funds that have been allocated, a little blind, without checking their effectiveness. The example of Sanofi has been mentioned, with 300 posts of researchers abolished in our country this year, but this follows earlier deletions in the field of research, not just production. We are in a system where these large companies have sometimes discharged their responsibilities and risks on so-called start-ups, which corresponds to a financialisation of research that is rather worrying from the point of view of the issues we face. Can we rely on this chain as it is organized? I also stress the need for massive investment in the public sector. The figures were given earlier: a significant delay has been made in recent years due to underfunding of public research. I would like to point out the case of Bruno Canard, a researcher at Aix-Marseille University, who was working on RNA viruses, of which coronaviruses are part, and whose research could not be completed without being able to be deepened. In 2014, the CNRS warned – in vain – the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation about the need to strengthen research in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Today, a massive reinvestment in basic research is essential, for anticipation purposes, in the context of long-term programmes. What are your intentions in this regard? What levers could be used to promote research in biology and health by combining the entire research and drug chain? We can no longer settle for funding on calls for projects: we need to review health research policy. A public impulse would no doubt be useful to launch a new dynamic, for example on messenger RNA vaccines, which could be the subject of a particular public device, or on biotechnology, which you have just mentioned, for which the existing tools would deserve to be mobilised more forcefully.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u112	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u113	I share a great deal of your comments, Mr Dharréville, starting with the idea that France must reinvest massively in research. However, we must bear in mind that it is impossible to know a priori which subject will be crucial in the future. This is why it is important to give massive support to all areas of academic research. This is precisely the objective of the Research Programming Act. This text has a second objective: to define the main priorities, in relation to the future investment programme, particularly for health research – as we have done with the priority programme of bioresistance research or with the initiative on emerging infectious diseases. Similarly, with the PREZODE programme, the aim is to reflect on the impact of human activity on natural and wild areas and its possible role in zoonoses. These research programmes will be developed for a period of ten years from this year. This will enable us to regain our ability to radiate internationally in the fields of therapies, biotherapy and vaccines. These research programmes set out objectives to be achieved, but in no way the means to achieve them, these being the responsibility of the researchers. Only researchers know what avenues need to be explored and what solutions are conducive to innovation. As for the state, its role must be to accompany academic laboratories who wish to do so in the creation of spin-off designed to test and validate their concepts. We will fund these spin-offs through innovation support mechanisms, in particular i-Lab and i-PhD competitions. Once these spin-offs have "derided", we will ask companies to take their responsibilities and take the last step by investing in research and development. It is by maintaining this chain, more precisely by recreating it, that we can again compete with the best in the world – because our researchers are among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u114	Mrs Audrey Dufeu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u115	My colleague Jean-Louis Touraine and I have just completed, as rapporteurs of the Committee on Social Affairs, the report of the fact-finding mission on medicinal products, chaired by Pierre Dharréville, which will be published on 23 June. Without revealing our conclusions – which you will certainly read carefully, Madam Minister – I would like to share with you a finding and concern. The observation, first of all. In terms of vaccine research, Europeans have made a different choice than Americans. The US agency, BARDA, has directly invested more than $10 billion in the development of seven promising vaccines. For example, Moderna benefited from a zero-cost contract covering 100% of R&amp;D costs and a 100 million-dose contract for $1.5 billion, totalling almost $2.5 billion. As we know, France and Europe have neither a legal framework nor sufficient financial capacity to support such research. Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on State aid, allows at most one State to cover 80% of the cost of initial research, which is already a great deal, everyone agrees; However, it is insufficient to deal with a health crisis such as that of the covid-19. Clearly, the national scale is no longer adequate to meet the challenges of current research, and especially the challenges of the future. The European Union has therefore mobilized and demonstrated its responsiveness with the Horizon Europe programme and the project to create a health emergency preparedness and response authority, the HERA agency. I come to my question, Madam Minister, and, through it, to my concern. How do you envisage the establishment of the HERA agency and its articulation with the very many bodies – I would say even the very, very many bodies – already existing in France? Is the creation of this agency not an opportunity to reorganise the system of funding and functioning of research in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u116	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u117	A new European structure is being created. It will enable Europe to be better prepared for health crises, whether natural or not, and will function as the BARDA, which was created more than 20 years ago and whose intervention allows for massive funding, as you pointed out. It was very important for France and Europe to equip themselves with such a tool in order to prepare for new health crises. The crisis of the covid-19 showed how much we missed him. During the health crisis, we had to work in an emergency and contracts for the purchase of vaccines against covid-19 were signed in advance of the phase, without proof of their effectiveness, since they were still under development. Europe supported R&D by the companies concerned and paved the way for new ways of linking R&amp;D financing with public procurement. But all this was done without a strong coordination structure. The creation of such a body is therefore an important issue. It will include a national component through the creation of the new Agency for Research on Emerging Infectious Diseases, which will play a coordinating role for all French research. However, should we place all research work under the leadership of a single university or research organization? It would, in my view, be a mistake, the emergence of knowledge based in principle on bubbling. On the other hand, it seems essential to be able to have at all times a comprehensive view of the work in progress in the laboratories and of the knowledge that can be mobilised in the event of a crisis. This will be the objective of the new national agency and the new European agency. In the framework of the French Presidency of the European Union, we will also try to make progress on the issue of health, although the business is difficult. As you know, this is a strictly national prerogative, and the specific legislative constraints of each country often complicate the work at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u118	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u119	In France, Europe and the world, the covid-19 vaccination campaign is in full swing. We all hope that it will also benefit poor countries. More than 2 billion people have received at least one dose of vaccine since December 2020, about 30 per cent of the world's population. After trying months for caregivers, our fellow citizens and our economy, this dynamic finally brings the hope of a victory against covid-19: victory by science, victory by research, victory also for progress, thanks to major innovations such as messenger RNA vaccine. This breaking technology is not the result of chance. Five decades of research, which began in the 1970s, were necessary so that it could, for the first time in 2020, under record conditions, very new, be placed on the market by the American-German group Pfizer-BioNTech and the American biotechnology company Moderna. In this unbridled race that states and large pharmaceutical companies have taken to stem the pandemic, France has taken its place. To take just one example, the Institut Pasteur was the first organization in Europe to sequence the genome of covid-19 in its entirety, without which the implementation of certain vaccine candidates would not have been possible. It must be noted, however, that France has failed to transform the test. You have put forward several reasons, Madam Minister, in answering the previous questions: lack of time, lack of resources, but also lack of coordination between the various actors involved in research. Nevertheless, the candidate for the Sanofi vaccine has obtained conclusive results in the Phase 2 trials, which suggests the hope of French production by the end of 2021. We must rejoice, but also learn from it for the future – what you are doing, minister. How can France, the country of Pasteur, regain its position and leadership in the global race for vaccine research in the years to come?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u120	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u121	In fact, vaccine research has many advantages in France. Beyond its historical successes, the continuum of French research, from the upstream to innovation, is absolutely essential and we must strengthen it through organizations, universities, researchers, young and old, who will tomorrow have the desire to test their work in biotechnology companies, but also through companies that rank among the top ten at the international level in the field of vaccines for humans and veterinary vaccines. The forces of academic research, which intervene upstream, are found in specialized structures, such as the Institut Pasteur, or more general ones, such as the INSERM, the CNRS or university structures. France has retained expert centres in microbiology and immunology and clinical research sites specializing in infectious diseases, which have begun to work together. We will also maintain this structure, which allows us to work together on clinical research sites. We have several specialties in France, from the so-called neglected tropical diseases, the expertise on vaccines, which we share with several countries, or clusters made up around the Institut Pasteur, the Institut Necker enfants maladies, the CIRI – International Research Centre for Infectious Diseases –, the BIOASTER technological research institute and Lyonbiopôle. I could also mention the Immunopôle de Marseille or the sites of Tours, Bordeaux and Toulouse – they are too numerous for me to list them all. It is important to structure these sites in relation to the competitiveness clusters in order to strengthen the continuity between research and innovation. In this regard, French actors have demonstrated a great deal of responsiveness in the various vaccine platforms and in vectorology, to deliver antigens. Thanks to our historical and current networks, we have a solid foundation to rebuild true sovereignty in vaccine research in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u122	Mr Chouat has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u123	As Special Rapporteur on the research budget, I wished, on the occasion of the Spring of the Evaluation, which is currently coming to an end, that France should become more involved in the international organisations implemented to meet the challenge of emerging infectious diseases. This is notably the case of the Coalition for Innovations in Epidemic Preparedness, created at the Davos World Economic Forum in 2017, which is working on the development of vaccines against emerging infectious diseases, including coronaviruses. This coalition, from the beginning of the pandemic, played a leading role in accelerating research projects against covid-19. As of January 2020, it has provided financial support to the messenger RNA production platform developed jointly by Moderna and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases of the United States. In just a few months, this platform has led to the development of a reliable vaccine, now distributed in thirty-seven countries. The European Commission and many States of the European Union, including Germany, Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands, contribute financially to this international organisation. However, it seems that France's place remains insufficient. The Institut Pasteur received €4.3 million in funding in March 2020 for its candidate vaccine, but how could France strengthen its contribution to such international cooperation structures? What role does it intend to play at European level, in particular with regard to Horizon Europe's research and innovation framework programme for research on emerging infectious diseases, or the incubator of the new European biodefense preparedness plan against variants of coronavirus, known as "HERA incubator"?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u124	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u125	The CEPI – Coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations – is a Norwegian law association launched in Davos in 2017 to accelerate the development of vaccines against emerging infectious diseases. In February 2017, President Hollande spoke at the CEPI scientific conference, held in Paris with INSERM, to mark France's support for this organisation. Unfortunately, in the absence of means available, no direct subsidy was envisaged at the time, or later, despite numerous requests to join this organization officially and to finance it. The question arose again in 2020, in the context of the crisis of covid -19, as the CEPI supports vaccine research, as was the case for the projects of the Institut Pasteur on chikungunya, MERS-CoV and Lassa fever, as well as the development of a vaccine from measles vaccine. A large number of countries responded financially to the CEPI appeal, which urgently requested a vaccine R&amp;D support fund. On 19 March 2020, the CEPI obtained funding from the German, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish, Danish and British governments, followed by many other governments. The European Commission has also contributed significantly to its financing, in particular in favour of the so-called ACT-A platform for cooperation in the fight against covid-19, which France has supported to the tune of EUR 500 million, in addition to EUR 1.2 billion deployed by AFD – Agence française de développement – to support the development of hospital systems and the deployment of different therapies, and then vaccines, particularly in Africa, with the establishment of epidemiological surveillance and support for networks – foundations, NGOs, research organisations – to combat covid, in conjunction with French research organisations. France not only supported the ACT-A project, but also provided direct support to African countries, with priority being given to supporting the GAVI – Alliance of Vaccines – initiative and the VOCAX platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u126	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u127	I had the pleasure of recently visiting the Delpharm laboratory, located in my constituency, at the biopole Lyon-Gerland, world-renowned in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sector. Delpharm produces a number of medicines in Lyon, and recently won, with its partner BioSpeedia, the call for "Resilience" projects of the industry component of the recovery plan. Thanks to state support, this laboratory will produce millions of antigenic tests and self-tests. It is a real pride to have covid -19 tests entirely "made in France", since they are produced in Lyon and designed in Saint-Étienne. I also associate my colleagues from the Loire Jean-Michel Mis and Julien Borowczyk with this question. This is a perfect example of the success of our strategy of industrial relocation to the health sector in our country. At the time of the revival desired by the President of the Republic and the Government, we must appeal to the French and European production by allowing our biotechs to anticipate the demand of the State to be able to honour the influx of orders – not only in the field of antigenic tests, but also in the field of self-tests, devices that consist of a nasal sampling that each can carry out at home. With the reopening of collective spaces, they are called upon to become a tool for screening daily, complementing our arsenal of fight against covid-19. The Ministries of Health, National Education, the Interior and Higher Education have already launched orders. However, their level is not sufficiently precise for our industrialists, who lack the visibility that would allow them to prepare their production chain as best as possible, so that they can position themselves in the framework of future calls for projects by the State. In the absence of this visibility, the risk is very great to see Asian, Korean, Chinese or other industrialists win the French markets. Madam Minister, can the Government specify the level of self-test orders that it will have to pass in the coming months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u128	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u129	You are right to recall this, because this is not always welcomed enough: France has one of the most effective screening systems in the world, with several million free tests carried out every week, allowing their beneficiaries to constantly check whether they are infected with covid or not. It is also thanks to this scheme that health insurance can set up the whole "contact tracing" system. Self-tests are also very important and complementary to the screening strategy, but they cannot replace PCR tests because they do not allow "contact tracing". They have been distributed as an off-the-shelf service since 12 April, on non-prescription for individuals, and allow everyone to be reassured; their use is a little more pleasant than the nasopharyngeal sampling required for PCR tests. The Government has also decided to make these self-tests available free of charge in schools, universities and for those of our fellow citizens who are furthest from the health system. Although the tests are free of charge, it is indeed difficult for some people to step in and get tested; That's why these self-tests are distributed. The state has already purchased more than 5 million self-tests, and we will see how our compatriots will use them. It is therefore difficult to predict how many of them will be used. In any case, whether it is the strategy of national education or that of higher education, we have asked the universities – as far as my ministry is concerned – for their orders, since they can obtain their orders under conventional public procurement. When we know the volume of self-tests required for re-entry, we will not fail to communicate it to producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u130	Mr Thomas Rudigoz has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u131	The President of the Republic announced on Wednesday, 2 June, that adolescents between the ages of 12 and 18 would have access to vaccination against covid-19 from tomorrow. The opening of vaccination to this section of the population is not anomaly and raises many questions. What means can be put in place to best accompany young people in vaccination? While adolescents have suffered the full consequences of the health crisis – social isolation, school difficulties, psychological distress, lack of prospects – the opening to vaccination will put them on the front line by fully involving them in the strategy to combat the epidemic, to avoid class closures at the start of the school year and to protect the most vulnerable among us. In addition, the problem of young people is not the same as that of older populations, as it implies a different benefit-risk balance than that of adults. It would therefore be appropriate to consider specific support for these young people in the choice of vaccination, in order to offer them the possibility of consenting or not to be vaccinated in the most enlightened and free way possible. Similarly, can a follow-up of adolescent-specific pharmacovigilance be implemented? Regarding the technical details of the vaccination campaign for adolescents, can you confirm that only the Pfizer vaccine is currently registered and that the campaign will take place in the vaccination centre, as for the rest of the population? This acceleration of the vaccination schedule also raises the question of opening vaccination, in a second stage, to young children. This issue is crucial in the fight against covid-19, as this population is a major source of contamination, especially in the run-up to the next school year. While the goal is to achieve a collective immunity of between 80% and 85% in order to successfully counter the spread of the virus, is it envisaged to vaccinate the population of young children?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u132	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u133	Since 28 May last, the authorisation to place Pfizer vaccine on the market – and only Pfizer vaccine – allows the vaccination of young people between 12 and 15 years of age. A favourable opinion had already been given for adolescents aged 16 and 17, particularly those with high-risk diseases. From 15 June onwards, vaccination will be open to adolescents. As in all the countries around us, this vaccination has become a reality. This population has been greatly affected in its daily lives and aspirations by the health crisis; It needs to find a horizon and a sociability, and this must be done under maximum security conditions. It is also very important to prepare for the most normal school year as soon as possible, as it is necessary for young people and adolescents to be vaccinated in order to achieve collective immunity. They will be done in a traditional legal framework, with the consent of the parents and with clear information from the teenagers. Preparation of the communication doctrine on adolescent vaccination is under way: collection of parental authorization, collection of consent, information and communication plan. The European Medicines Agency has given marketing authorisation for Pfizer vaccine for this type of vaccination. Moderna is expected to file a similar application in the near future, so that this vaccine can also benefit young people aged 12 to 15 years; The results of this request are expected to be known in the course of July. My Ministry is following these questions in connection with the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Health, in order to best prepare for the school year and the academic year of September, including by thinking about appropriate vaccinations in schools or universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u134	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u135	I would like to know more about the question, which has already been widely mentioned, of the lifting of patents: what exactly are we heading for? The subject has been discussed among the world's major powers, without being able to succeed, while the lifting of patents represents an ethical change necessary for a struggle to live up to the present and future pandemics. In addition, the UN and its partners have launched the VOCAX initiative, the vaccine pillar of the scheme to accelerate access to tools to combat covid-19. Through partnerships between VOCAX, GAVI, WHO, UNICEF – United Nations Children's Fund – and CEPI, a unique mobilization was organized around vaccines. In this globalized and comprehensive approach to the fight against pandemics, to what extent does France influence the implementation of the VOCAX programme? What is its place in this international platform, in which it participates, with its republican values of equality and fraternity? How does it combine this commitment with the long time of our organizations and research programs? As we know and must bear in mind, if we retain a selfish approach, effectively excluding poor countries or developing countries from vaccination, we will fail in our fight against covid-19 and subsequent pandemics. We can only win in sharing and helping, because viruses know no borders. What idea do we have of cooperation in the implementation of the VOCAX programme?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u136	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u137	France was among the first countries to call for the implementation of this solidarity action of VOCAX, and we were the first to donate to VOCAX doses of vaccines acquired from our own funds. An initial commitment of 500,000 doses was made, and the President of the Republic committed to share at least 30 million doses of the various vaccines by the end of the year. In addition, the G7 countries promised to distribute more than one billion extra doses by the end of 2022. The question of intellectual property can and must be raised, as there must be no obstacle to the production and universal distribution of vaccines against this pandemic, as well as against all pandemics. However, there is an urgent need to work in practice to implement the derogations already legally provided for by the WTO in the TRIPS agreements – trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights – and to negotiate to clarify and make these derogations more effective. To do this, we need to build on the WTO, WHO, and organizations with proven expertise, such as the Medicines Patent Pool. The European Union has made concrete proposals in this direction, and we obviously support them. Once again, however, we look forward to the concrete proposal by the United States on how to remove intellectual property. We know that it can take several years, and our priority objectives must therefore be to make doses in order to be able to distribute them, while already working within the existing legal framework to speed up the possibility of directly setting up production plants in the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u138	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u139	Our thinking pattern has been upset, and we finally understand that the cost of anticipation and prevention will always be lower than the cost of reparation, which now amounts to several billions. This virus is an emerging zoonosis such as Ebola, SARS – severe acute respiratory syndrome – or avian flu. According to the World Health Organization, 60% of human infectious diseases are zoonotic, with the animal acting as a transmitter of the pathogen affecting human health. By destroying the animal's habitat, we accelerate these contaminations. We must understand and act to make our activities less destructive of the natural habitat of the fauna and flora, with whom we live on this land. We need to improve our knowledge and to deepen research in the area of arbovirosis and zoonoses, which is constantly increasing. How does vaccine research address this issue of zoonoses? How does it relate to the work on deforestation and the collapse of biodiversity? From the perspective of "A world, a health" – One World, One Health – defended by WHO, how is France preparing for future health crises? What areas of research do they focus on, and with what means to implement a holistic approach?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u140	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u141	In the field of vaccine research, the issue of zoonoses or arbovirosis is a very wide field. These arthropod-borne viruses, such as mosquitoes or ticks, include several families: dengue, Zika virus, encephalitis viruses such as West Nile virus, or hemorrhagic fever viruses such as Crimea-Congo. All have a very high mortality rate, and efforts are constant to produce vaccines – where they already exist, as is fortunately the case with yellow fever or dengue fever. Many research projects are also being developed, either in research laboratories, in biotechnology companies or in the pharmaceutical industry, to continue to develop and produce vaccines against these viruses. In order to accelerate research and protect us from future epidemics and pandemics, the Government has decided to support a priority programme on emerging infectious diseases and, more broadly, on natural, biological, chemical or radiological threats. This overall strategy will be led by INSERM and its new agency, the NSRI-emerging infectious diseases, and support for the development of immunization programs will be one of its priorities. Beyond that, we must be aware that in the logic of global health One World, One Health, we must not just invest in vaccines, but anticipate possible future health crises by trying to prevent the mechanisms of emergence. To this end, we have put in place another priority research programme which will focus on the prevention of zoonoses, and in particular on the impact that human activity can have not only on natural and wild environments, but also in the field of livestock and agriculture, so that it can react very quickly in the event of a new health crisis or even be able to avoid it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u142	The question-and-answer session is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1303.u143	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Debate on the assessment of the impact of the measures taken in the context of the health crisis on the health and life expectancy of the French. The meeting is adjourned.
