ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u1	The next item is the debate on the reports of the Joint Joint Committees on the draft law on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age (No. 4311) and on the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution (No. 4310). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u2	Mrs Aurore Bergé, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the task of proposing a text on the remaining provisions of the draft law on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u3	In a way, almost four years ago we have been working on this text and on the key issue of audiovisual reform. First of all, I would like to reiterate the requirement that the legislator himself made in 1986 to ensure freedom of audiovisual communication and, consequently, pluralism of the media and public access to cultural diversity. Beyond the progressive evolutions of the 1986 Act – changes of legislative origin but also many, in recent years, of regulatory origin – and while the rules of the game have been deeply shaken, a more important adaptation was needed: this is what we have achieved in the context of the bill that we are finally completing today. We reaffirmed several requirements and principles. The first of these demands, Madam Minister of Culture, is obviously respect for those who create. This raises the issue of piracy, a key issue, especially since in recent months, unfortunately, we have seen it flourish. We must put an end to it. From now on, the law will offer us much more powerful tools to fight against all the circumvention levers that existed until then, including the so-called mirror sites. As legislators, we have a clear prohibition: piracy, which is always a looting of the work and the rights of creators, must cease. We have also reaffirmed cultural sovereignty. In this area, adaptations to the law and the 1986 law were necessary, particularly with regard to anti-concentration thresholds, which we have changed for television and radio: in the face of new entrants to a profoundly modified audiovisual game, we did not want our actors to go with balls on their feet. The question of the public was also raised, because this law, which may seem very technical at first glance, is aimed primarily at the French. What do they watch every day? Is cultural diversity guaranteed? Is audiovisual pluralism guaranteed? We reaffirmed the importance of TNT, digital terrestrial television. Many, before confinement, predicted his death, but we have seen since television had a future, provided that it is given the means to do so. This is what we are doing, especially thanks to the UHD, the ultra-high definition. Even if it is not included in the law, the President of the Republic and you, Madam Minister, have made a very strong commitment, in accordance with the will of the parliamentarians: the sustainability of France 4. This channel could have disappeared, but in the face of public expectations and the proliferation of other types of screens, it seemed necessary to us that a public service channel should be dedicated not only to youth, but also to culture, one of the first sectors to have suffered from the period we have experienced. As we live in a political moment when even the truth becomes questionable, having a strong public audio-visual is obviously an essential asset. Not because he would say what needs to be said, like a state television – that's not it, the public audiovisual – but because its singularity allows us to convey values and principles to which we are particularly attached. The sustainability of France 4 is the perfect demonstration of this. These are, in a few words, the essential elements of the bill. I would like to pay tribute to the calm atmosphere in which the debates in the Committee on Cultural Affairs took place, both before and after confinement. The work with the Senate has also been very successful. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group as well as on the benches of the Dem group]] It was not obvious to find a place for the discussion of this text on the agenda of the parliamentary assemblies. There will always be some to consider that culture can wait. But in reality, culture is not waiting! Legislative and regulatory adjustments were needed; Now they are about to be adopted. We will be very vigilant about the application of the new provisions – particularly with regard to the directives, which will ensure the long-term financing of the creation, in particular of cinema.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u4	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, to propose a text on the remaining provisions of the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u5	The text of which I have the honour to be rapporteur tends to update the list of functions subject to the appointment procedure provided for in the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of our Constitution. It thus accompanies the ambitious reform proposed by the Government and contained in the draft law on the protection of access to cultural works in the digital age, which aims to change the digital practices of Internet users towards more responsible and respectful uses of intellectual property. Since the provisions contained in the latter text have already been brilliantly presented by Mrs Aurore Bergé, I will not go back to the substance, simply pointing out that the developments envisaged in the bill were necessary and expected. Indeed, the current framework for the regulation of communications, fragmented among many actors and based on sectoral logics, is now facing new challenges, linked to the development of platforms, the power they have acquired and the uses associated with them. The creation of a new authority resulting from the merger of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA) and the High Authority for the Dissemination of Works and the Protection of Rights on the Internet (HADOPI), the Autorité de régulation de la communication audiovisuel et numérique (ARCOM), must thus enable account to be taken of the growing proximity between the objectives and the rules governing the two original institutions and of the development of audiovisual production and creation. This merger is also part of an effort to strengthen the regulation of digital and content. ARCOM will be entrusted with new tasks of regulating content and digital actors, in the fight against online disinformation or hatred, but also in the prevention of piracy. Finally, the creation of a new regulator will contribute to the rationalisation of independent administrative authorities and generate synergies of administrative and logistical resources. It seems natural that the appointment of this new authority to the presidency should be subject to parliamentary scrutiny, as was the appointment of the president of the APF. That is why the draft organic law adds the ARCOM Presidency to the list of jobs or functions giving rise to the specific appointment procedure provided for in the Constitution. For the record, its Article 13 submits to the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees the appointments made by the President of the Republic to certain public posts or functions, "because of their importance for the guarantee of the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the Nation". This procedure, which is one of the innovations resulting from the 2008 constitutional review, ensures greater transparency on the appointments made by the President of the Republic and gives Parliament real control. Fifty-five functions are currently listed in the annex to the Organic Act of 23 July 2010. They concern bodies of different kinds. Since 2010, Parliament has had the opportunity to comment on a large number of appointments. While none has been refused on the basis of Article 13, it remains that this procedure has become very important in the institutional functioning and in the relations of parliamentary assemblies with the executive branch. It also reinforces the legitimacy of the appointees: their public hearing sheds light on their professional and personal background and guarantees the suitability of their skills for the function concerned. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group as well as on the benches of the Dem group]] At first reading, the discussions were brief; Our assembly has carried out various coordinations with other texts of organic value without changing the substance of the bill. The text was subsequently agreed in the Joint Joint Committee: it is the text of this committee that I propose to you today to adopt definitively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u6	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u7	As the rapporteurs have just pointed out, the audiovisual and film sectors are undergoing profound changes. Each of us can also make the observation every day: with the multiplication of the channels of diffusion of works and the possibility of consuming cultural works at any time, on any medium and in any place, the uses change. Our landscape is also changing, with the emergence of new players: these giants with considerable investment capacities and the offer of a globalised programme are installed outside our territory and thus escape the regulation that we apply to them. While these changes represent opportunities for French creation, they also call for the establishment of new rules adapted to a much more open and competitive economy, but also for the strengthening of the resources allocated to our creation and the maintenance of an industrial and cultural ambition for, and by, audiovisual and cinema. In order to strengthen the means of our creation, I began a thorough reform of the mechanisms to support its financing, with the revision of the decree on audiovisual media services on demand, known as the SMD decree, the decree on the contribution of cinematographic and audiovisual works of terrestrial radio broadcasting services, known as the TNT decree, and the decree on the regime applicable to the various categories of sound broadcasting and television services distributed by cable or broadcast by satellite, known as the cable and satellite decree, which set out the modalities of investment in the production of televisions and platforms. Nevertheless, in agreement with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, I wanted the bill on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age to be tabled and discussed. You have waited a long time, and I am therefore very pleased that we are now completing the legislative process to adopt it. I would like to recall the broad objectives of this ambitious and important text for our model of creation. First, it aims to improve the protection of the rights of authors, artists, producers, broadcasters and sports federations by strengthening the fight against piracy. As you know, the loss of value due to this practice is immense, of the order of €1.3 billion per year. Acting against it is therefore an ardent obligation for the public authorities, especially since, after a decline in the number of pirates in two consecutive years, the periods of containment we have experienced in recent months have led to a further increase in the illegal consumption of content. This is the object of the first sections of the bill, which make it possible to draw up a blacklist of websites whose economic model is based on piracy, in order to tarnish their sources of income. These articles also aim to fight more effectively against mirror sites, which contain, in whole or substantially, the contents of a site deemed illegal. They also create an ad hoc referral mechanism to combat sporting piracy. This text also allows for the modernization of our regulations. The merger of the CSA and HADOPI was expected: in a few months, ARCOM will be the new competent regulator in the whole field of the regulation of audiovisual and digital content, whether it concerns the fight against piracy, the protection of minors or the defence of the public against online disinformation and hatred – a fight in which Laetitia Avia has particularly distinguished herself. The text finally allows – the main addition to the bill that you examined in March 2020 – to guarantee public access to French works. By its article 17, it introduces a protective mechanism which will allow, in the event of the transfer of a French work, to verify that the buyer, even if he is not a producer established in France, presents all the guarantees for the exploitation – and therefore the public view – of the work in France and abroad. This bill is the result of improvements made by the Senate and the National Assembly last June – I am thinking of the modernization of digital terrestrial television, the updating of anti-concentration rules for local television and radio, or the redefinition of independent production. It received very broad support during its first reading in the Senate and then in the National Assembly, and I am particularly pleased with the agreement you reached on the Joint Joint Committee in early July with your fellow senators. The points of divergence, you must admit, were few, and you were able to come together. This result reflects the climate in which the debates took place, as my mind has been to work with each of you. Before concluding, I would like to warmly thank Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, dear Bruno Studer, true conductor of the proper conduct of the debates, as well as the two rapporteurs of the ordinary bill, Sophie Mette and Aurore Bergé, and the rapporteur of the organic bill, Laetitia Avia, for the work we have done in confidence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Constance The Grip also applauds]] Ultimately, this text is ambitious and fundamental to the defence of French creation. By adopting it definitively, you will enable us to adapt our legislative arsenal to the new changes in the audiovisual and film sectors, ensuring better protection of creators, modernising regulation and defending public access to works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u8	In the joint general discussion, Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u9	On behalf of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, I would like to express our joy and pride in seeing this text come to fruition. I am doing so in two ways, since, in addition to being the spokesperson for my group today, I was a rapporteur for part of the bill on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age. Together with our colleague Aurore Bergé, we examined this bill at length for several months, just like the one that preceded it, and that was developed by the then minister, Mr. Franck Riester – his work is still reflected in the text we are discussing. With you, Madam Minister, as well as with committed Members from every bench, we had the honour of drawing up an important, narrowed but useful text – and even necessary, because it was demanded by a large number of French audiovisual players from all sectors. It will enable them to better address the challenges posed by the development of major US and global platforms. Without detailing all the provisions of the text, I will refer to the far-reaching reform that leads to the creation of a new regulator, resulting from the merger between HADOPI and the CSA. This authority, ARCOM, will be entrusted with new tasks, including combating online disinformation and hatred, raising awareness and preventing piracy. It will have to be accompanied, so that it has a budget commensurate with the powers of control, investigation and regulation that we have. The regulator should also ensure a balanced representation of French society and its diversity. There was consensus on these topics between the two parliamentary assemblies. On 1 July the Joint Joint Committee was working on the final points of discussion. Like us, our Senate counterparts have approached the exercise in a spirit of consensus, openness and construction. Already, the two chambers had converged on many points. Both Article 1 and Article 3, relating to the creation of ARCOM and the fight against piracy, were adopted, for example, in a version almost identical to that approved by the Senate. The subject of the criminal transaction, introduced by the Senate and then deleted by this House, did not cause debate: it was the last stage of a procedure against Internet users accused of hacking in pairs, namely a fine of 350 euros. We did not wish to take this punitive path, preferring to concentrate the financial and human resources of ARCOM on the practices of piracy now ultra-majoritarian: streaming and direct download. Senators and MPs who supported this measure did not seek to reintroduce it – I can only welcome this spirit of compromise. Also mentioned is Article 2A, on which consensus was reached: its deletion was accepted as a result of an agreement between Google and the owners of plasticians and photographers. We are therefore leading to a text that is acceptable to everyone and balanced, working for the benefit of our citizens. It has improved over time, as always, through the usual process of parliamentary added value. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group is pleased that despite a busy parliamentary timetable, and in the context we know, a major cultural subject has found its place – thank you, Minister. Finally, I would like to say a word about the organic bill to update the list of functions subject to the appointment procedure, so that the appointment of the presidency of the new authority, ARCOM, is subject to parliamentary scrutiny. This was a question of transparency, legitimacy and efficiency; it has reached consensus. Our group welcomes the unanimous support of this organic bill in the National Assembly and the Senate. On this subject, the Joint Joint Committee dealt not with a substantive divergence, but with a coordination amendment; We welcome its conclusions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On behalf of the democrats, allow me to express real satisfaction with the final adoption of these texts, which will enable French audiovisual players to face the challenges of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u10	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u11	At last we are at the end of a legislative process that was long, chaotic and disjointed. Unfortunately, the text submitted to our vote is far from its original ambition: the great audiovisual law promised is now buried. It was a missed opportunity to hold a major substantive debate, at a time when digital and audiovisual changes are profoundly affecting our society and our democracy. What we need is an ambitious vision and strategy for the audiovisual sector. While the media have a central role to play in our democracy, many contribute to its weakening – despite the high quality of our journalists, which I would like to welcome. I will take one example: for days, morning and evening, evening and morning, many media continue to talk and make Zemmour, still Zemmour, still Zemmour, a putative candidate who rebukes old obsessions. Our country deserves much better than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u12	Then why are you talking about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u13	At the same time, during the six months of election campaign in Germany, the first country of immigration, what did the media talk about? They talked about housing, transport, global warming, difficulties in accessing public services, but not immigration. In France, what is this collective imbecility machine?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u14	You don't have to add any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u15	Our democracy is fragile, and the media should work to consolidate this common good, rather than weaken it. That is what Parliament should focus on. If I don't say it here, where will I say it? For example, it is necessary to redefine candidates' speaking time in the media together – today the criteria are too vague and left to the interpretation of the media, which, in most cases, rely on polls rather than on electoral representativeness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u16	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u17	It's not serious, when you know how surveys are sometimes done. More time needs to be given to analysis and debate in the public service media, before, during and after election campaigns. At the same time, the upheavals have been accelerating for many years. We are witnessing recompositions of the audiovisual landscape, with the rise of private actors and platforms. We must ask ourselves about the consequences of mergers and the independence of the editorial staff. We also need to work on access to sport for all, at a time when Amazon Prime, a paid US platform, broadcasts 80% of football League 1 matches. What about our fellow citizens who cannot afford to subscribe to it? All these changes can only cause us concern, because they are responsible for a weakening of the public debate, a breakdown in the independence of the media, and consequently an increasing distrust of our fellow citizens. What is the place of the public media in all this? The text does not address these questions and abuses, nor does it address the almost non-existent role of the APF. With this bill, there are no more serious issues: I am thinking, for example, of the reform of the contribution to public broadcasting, which Franck Riester had promised by 2021 at the latest. I'll say a word from France 4. The Libertés et territoires group, Frédérique Dumas in the lead, was particularly active in maintaining this youth channel. We are satisfied that it is preserved, even if we would have preferred it to be included in the law rather than in an order-in-council. For us, Parliament is the place where the public audiovisual strategy must be debated. We welcome the continuation of the provisions on the accessibility of France 3's proximity offer, which is in the direction of better representation of the territories – need more than strengthened since the abolition of France Ô. Finally, with regard to the merger of the CSA and HADOPI in ARCOM, we agree with the creation of a large content regulator – it remains to be seen whether ARCOM will have the human and financial resources to carry out its tasks, while the APF's appropriations have declined in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u18	It'll be in the finance bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u19	So we'll meet you in a few days' time when the budget is being examined. The mission to combat piracy entrusted to ARCOM is also greatly strengthened – this development was necessary. While piracy has tended to decline in recent years, as a result of the development of legal supply, the health crisis has led to its slight recovery, which must be of concern to us: piracy represents a shortfall of more than EUR 1 billion for the audiovisual sector and sport. While we readily acknowledge some progress in this bill – which we will approve – we reiterate our concern about the lack of a comprehensive strategy and vision for public broadcasting and creation. Changes in these sectors are disrupting our society and democracy as a whole; Don't take them lightly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u20	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u21	Three months ago, we adopted this essential text on first reading, which comes back to us today after an agreement has been reached between our chamber and the Senate. Let us welcome this agreement found, in a responsible manner, by parliamentarians who are keen to change the law rapidly, with a view to better regulating an audiovisual sector which has been undergoing many changes for several years. The rise of digital technology has boosted our consumption of dematerialized content, and with it the risk of hacking works. Containment periods have been conducive to audiovisual piracy, resulting in a loss of value of more than EUR 1.3 billion per year. The text meets many of the expectations of the players in the sector and introduces major advances – it is not in any way a small law. ARCOM, an authority created by the merger between the CSA and HADOPI, will have broad powers of control and sanction adapted to the digital age. Its main tasks have been strengthened: the establishment of black lists of offending sites, the fight against mirror sites, and the fight against the piracy of sports retransmissions through the mechanism of dynamic injunctions. Note that the composition of the ARCOM College has been agreed. I also note the continuation of a dissuasive sanction procedure against publishers who do not comply with their obligations to finance production. Our intense discussions have made it possible to enrich the text, particularly with regard to public audiovisual, with the resumption of the local signal of France 3, in Article 10 quater, and the possibility of obtaining consumption data on boxes, in Article 10 quinquies. The discussions also resulted in an increase to 19 million inhabitants of the authorized concentration threshold for local television. Finally, let us stress the progress made in the field of digital terrestrial television, even if, on a personal basis, it seems to me that we could perhaps have gone further on the Hybrid Broadcast Broadcast Television standard, known as HBBTV. Let us acknowledge that all these advances were necessary. Similarly, we have authorized the Government to take urgent measures, such as the transposition of the so-called Audiovisual Media Services (AMS) Directive and the Copyright and Related Rights Directive into the Digital Single Market. However, some topics such as the chronology of the media remain under discussion. On this point, we hope that agreement will be reached quickly between the various stakeholders. Article 17 is a novelty in relation to the text of the first audiovisual bill. Its provisions will ensure better protection of French and European audiovisual and cinematographic catalogues through the establishment of a pre-sale declaration mechanism. Finally, since it was discussed during the debates, I would like to stress the fact that the French channel 4 has been maintained, made possible by the mobilisation of parliamentarians from all the benches. The public audiovisual channel dedicated to youth therefore continues its mission during the day, while offering cultural content in the evening as part of Culturebox. I am also pleased, having been a rapporteur on this part in the original bill, that the text has made real progress with regard to public broadcasting, although I would have thought it would have been better to go even further. I would add that public companies, like many other actors, are concerned; they suffer from a lack of visibility on their financing from 2023, when the housing tax, on which the contribution to the public audiovisual service was based, will be definitively abolished. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text is more protective of authors, works and audiovisual creation. It is a balanced and consistent bill that comes back to us today after the agreement reached in CMP. It will make it possible to adapt to our times and practices the founding text of the Act of 30 September 1986 on freedom of communication. I therefore call on you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to adopt it definitively and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, the draft organic law, which contains a necessary coordination measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u22	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u23	Parliamentary work on the public audiovisual sector and the challenges and challenges affecting the audiovisual sector as a whole had begun in our two assemblies more than four years ago, but the covid-19 pandemic, Minister, came to put a brutal stop to the consideration of the public audiovisual reform bill defended by your predecessor. Secondly, the Government has made a realistic and pragmatic choice to introduce a more narrow bill. The major reform of the French public audiovisual sector has thus been left out. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm the interest of my political family, the Republican Right, in the French public audiovisual industry and the support it wishes to give to it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u25	... at a time when some people are questioning him, and saying our satisfaction – I say it to my colleague in the group. The Republicans, Maxime Minot – to see that France 4 is maintained. Finally, I welcome the long-awaited transposition, by way of order, of the Copyright and SMA Directives, as well as the directive, known as CABSAT 2, establishing rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain online transmissions of broadcasters and retransmissions of television and radio programmes. This bill, which we are completing today's parliamentary adoption process, is therefore focused on strengthening the fight against piracy, creating a new regulator, the result of the merger between the CSA and HADOPI, and protecting the French public's access to cinematographic and audiovisual works in the event of a proposed divestiture of catalogues of works. With regard to the fight against piracy, of which it is worth recalling that the impact is estimated at more than EUR 1 billion a year, the draft law contains necessary progress, much expected by the sector, the creators and which we had ardently called for. Among these new provisions, which reinforce the existing legislative arsenal, I will mention the blacklist mechanism, the fight against mirror sites, the blocking and de-listing of counterfeit sites and a specific mechanism for retransmissions of sporting events. Personally, I have a small regret: that the criminal transaction mechanism that was defended in the Senate by the rapporteur of the text, Jean-Raymond Hugonet, and voted by the High Assembly, was not retained in the compromise reached between our two assemblies. But I understood that there was no consensus on this specific subject. The Republican Group, for its part, regrets that this debate did not provide an opportunity to further preserve universal and free digital terrestrial television and to make progress towards the modernisation of the TNT. While we are pleased to see the subject of the ultra-high definition incorporated into the provisions of the bill, we regret that this is not the case with the proposals that our colleague Jean-Jacques Gaultier has put forward very broadly, including the development of the HBBTV standard, which is, however, essential for the modernization of the TNT. This standard, which already exists in several other European countries, is, however, demanded by both public and private actors. We very much hope that we will have the opportunity to return, perhaps through another legislature. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur, also applauds]] Once we have mentioned these few shortcomings, we reaffirm our support for all of the proposed provisions. At a time when digital giants and platforms are doing everything they can to impose their laws and content, MPs and senators The Republicans are convinced that the proposed text will promote support for French creation, the protection of our creators, cultural diversity and the cultural sovereignty of our country. We will also vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u26	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u27	Since the beginning of the debates on the audiovisual reforms initiated by the Government, I, together with my parliamentary group, denounce the attacks on freedom of expression on the Internet...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u28	Always that sense of measurement!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u29	... and general monitoring of content. For good reason, since the cases of censorship on the various digital platforms are increasing. This is due to the exclusive use of algorithms, where we argue that human verification is essential before any deletion of content. In fact, the European Commission is adamant in our view, since on 4 June 2021, in its guidelines to help Member States transpose Article 17 of the Copyright Directive, it calls on the Commission to restrict automatic blocking to manifestly illegal content reported by a right holder, with other content to be placed online and examined by a human being. There is now a lack of counter-power against the main digital platforms, which is unacceptable. We cannot let them decide alone what may or may not be published. Similarly, they cannot, without the consent of the users, collect, store or sell their personal information. On the other hand, your project completely neglects the public audiovisual sector. This confirms the Government's lack of ambition in this area, which has made the choice every year to reduce the budget allocated to this sector. The merger between the APF and HADOPI within ARCOM also raises questions. In our view, HADOPI is an expensive and ineffective device. We hope that the task of protecting intellectual property will again be entrusted to the judicial judge rather than to an administrative authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u30	Independent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u31	We also call for the development of legal offer through the creation of a public Internet service and a public platform offering online music, films and other cultural content. As for the APF, it needs to see its governance fundamentally reformed to ensure its independence. It is not for the Head of State to appoint its President: he should be elected by the Cultural Affairs Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate. On the other hand, we always defend the idea of the representatives of the users. Such measures would provide both guarantees of independence and democratic demands. In response to the growing mistrust of our citizens about the media, we proposed the creation of an ethics council composed of representatives of users, media representatives and representatives of journalists, including the precarious and freelancers. It would thus give citizens the means to enforce their right to objective information. The issue of media independence from the power of money is equally crucial. One would have to be naive to believe that the nine billionaires who share 90% of our media are engaged in this activity out of passion for journalism. For the sake of plurality, it should therefore be prohibited for a group to control several television channels. However, you are doing the opposite by raising the permitted concentration threshold for local television channels. In the same sense, the same group should not have both the broadcasting network and the production. In other words, an Internet and box TV provider should not also control TV channels. In short, these lengthy debates on the audiovisual sector have shown that we are defending a political project other than yours. The one we have chosen places in his heart the general interest rather than that of a few; It is a political project with requirements for transparency, democracy, pluralism, when you refuse any reform of the governance of the APF; a political project that preserves the freedom of expression and the freedom to inform oneself, when you favour censorship by algorithms and refuse to entrust the power of regulation to the judicial judge to leave it in the hands of private companies; a political project that gives the same rights to the inhabitants of the overseas countries and territories and to those living in Hexagon; a political project that allows everyone to share the spectacle of the great sports competitions – women, men and mandisport – when you reserve it to those who have the financial means to cumulate the subscriptions with the major private groups. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, once again, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u32	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u33	This text, which was originally quite ambitious, has lost some of its feathers since the beginning of its examination, interrupted by the health crisis. The CMP's version nevertheless preserves the three objectives of strengthening the fight against piracy, merging HADOPI and the CSA to create ARCOM and protecting public access to French cinematographic works. In plain terms, and a few months from the end of the quinquennium, it is not the big bang of the audiovisual promised by the candidate Macron to which we are witnessing, but a project whose ambition has been revised downwards. If the transposition of European directives could be carried out, we regretted that it was by order, again depriving Parliament of a fundamental right. Hence the reform of the contribution to public audiovisual, which needs to be reinvented in order to support the public audiovisual sector. The abolition of the current system is in complete contradiction with the need for our public media to wage the fight to defend the essential stakes of cultural sovereignty, freedom of expression, plurality and quality of content, to accompany developments in techniques and practices and to combat misinformation and the manipulation of information. For several years, the French audiovisual landscape has been undergoing profound changes that deserve our attention, and that is the whole point of this discussion. The consumption patterns of audiovisual media have changed dramatically with the arrival of US giants Amazon, Netflix or Disney+. Their fierce competition in the production investment market calls for our vigilance to protect independent producers and the French and European audiovisual heritage. In view of these profound changes, the short-cut text of the Joint Joint Committee is probably already far behind in our time! As often, our laws run slowly behind realities – that's how it is. These provisions operate the announced merger between HADOPI and the CSA to form ARCOM, which we believe is a good direction to better regulate content. It appears that this merger gives rise to a certain enthusiasm among the teams of the two structures, provided, of course, that the budgetary resources are available to accompany and consolidate the immense work of protecting works and modernising tools. We will discuss this again in the forthcoming budget discussions. The part of the draft law on the protection of the exploitation of cinematographic works in the event of a transfer is also a positive step, even if it should have been strengthened and if we would have wished to have included the delicate issue of digital pollution in past and future discussions. Nevertheless, we regret the CMP's deletion of Article 7a, which was intended to consolidate a public service chain as a sport reference. Amazon's capture of most of the circulation of League 1 illustrates very unequal power relations in favor of the American! On the issue of neighbouring rights, we will be vigilant about the proper application of the directive following the deletion of Article 2a. The Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education hears the warnings issued by a large number of actors: in the face of the enormous predation of our cultural heritage by the GAFAMs and other digital giants, Parliament must ensure that the sentences handed down by the competition authority are carried out without fail. Moving into a dynamic power relationship with these giants is a necessity if we want to get out of the current asymmetrical situation, with platforms opposed to any form of regulation and which do not aim to present the press in an impartial manner. We must arm ourselves and create the necessary tools. I therefore welcome the process of bringing together the actors of the press publishers around a new collective management body. However, it may be necessary to find the right legislative vehicle, in France and Europe, to guarantee the independence and quality of the content created by our publishers and news agencies. Finally, I want to reiterate our concern about the proposed merger between TF1 and M6, which will lead to multiple forms of concentration: information, advertising – up to 75% of the advertising market! – but also the production of series or telefilms. This questions us about the space left to independent production. We need to adopt new anti-concentration tools to preserve our diversity. As we all know, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is to give us the means to combat the looting of works and the capture of the value that our creators produce, whether in the field of the press, music or audiovisual as a whole. At a time when the competition authority has made strong arbitrations, Parliament must fully play its supervisory role. From this point of view, the text we are looking at again here, if it has not taken into account all the issues relating to the regulation of markets and the protection of works, is a step forward that we readily recognize. Of course, we support the organic bill: it is essential that Parliament be able to express its views on the appointment of the presidents. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] So, despite the reservations I have expressed, and because the expectations of the audiovisual world are important and we want to defend the place of public audiovisual in this landscape, my group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u34	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u35	I would like once again to welcome your willingness, Minister, to act against piracy like that of our chamber and the Senate, which have been able to find a balanced agreement in CMP. It is true that with the advent of an increasingly digital society, illegal practices around cultural works have evolved considerably: from private copies to streaming to downloading, it is difficult for the legislator to keep pace with the new methods. Thus the establishment of a unified authority, with broad powers and means of intervention, is good news for the protection of works and especially for the promotion of good behaviour. More broadly, the rationalization of administrative authorities and state agencies is a good thing. I hope that ARCOM will be effective, but above all that we will be able to listen to it in order to anticipate and respond to new fraudulent practices as quickly as possible. But the action of ARCOM must not be the only one on which we rely to move things forward. Indeed, the evolution of music consumption patterns, a sector in which the development of a legal and inexpensive streaming offer has made it possible to counter illegal downloading, must prompt us to reflect on the situation of other works. Of course, the stakes of the cinema market or series are not the same, but the extension of catalogues and offers should be able to better regulate a market where too many players are currently competing, not leaving the consumer who does not have multiple subscriptions the possibility to watch works of his choice. The same goes for sports. The multiplication of actors and the explosion of operating costs are now incomprehensible to him, which sometimes has to juggle with three different subscriptions to watch his favorite teams or competitions. Without apologizing to anyone, we must see that such complexity favours piracy. More generally, the entire audiovisual landscape at national and international level is evolving. We cannot but regret that the important provisions of the audiovisual bill passed by the Committee on Cultural Affairs in March 2020 have not been taken up. While international players such as Amazon and Netflix come to compete with French and European historical players, it seems urgent to redefine the framework of the audiovisual market so that our players can continue to play a major role in the dissemination of culture. Europe has not been the driving force behind the digital revolution that the world has been experiencing for more than 30 years. It would be inappropriate for our players in the cultural world not to adapt to the emergence of new consumption patterns and new technologies under the pretext of too restrictive a regulation that would hinder their development and, with it, that of the French cultural industry. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mrs Sophie Mette and Mr Maxime Minot also applaud]] However, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of the agreement reached in the CMP, hoping that we will continue to take the necessary steps quickly to combat all forms of piracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u36	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u37	We are pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has reached agreement on this new audiovisual bill. The text was very much expected by all actors in the cultural sector after the suspension, due to the health crisis, of the examination of the original text presented by Franck Riester. This is the culmination of a long work started with the parliamentary fact-finding mission that our colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel, from Agir together, had the honour of chairing and leading with the rapporteur Aurora Bergé, whom I salute. For more than six months, they conducted a hearing cycle of 222 stakeholders in the sector. The shared observation is that the legal framework needs to be adapted to the challenges posed by the profound and rapid transformation of the audiovisual ecosystem. It is also a success after the transposition of the "SMA" and "copyrights" directives by the Government, which allow for a better sharing of the value produced, provide greater protection for authors and performers and attest to our need for Europe in the globalized competition. This bill passed in the CMP is indeed another step forward that it seems important to put in the context of the unprecedented health, economic, human crisis that we have gone through collectively. Indeed, the covid-19 pandemic has particularly affected the world of culture. I am thinking of intermittents, artists, authors, TPEs – very small businesses – and SMEs – small and medium-sized businesses – festivals, theatres, museums, cabarets, theatres, cinemas. The Government has taken unprecedented and unparalleled measures in the world. But the health crisis has largely contributed to the acceleration of changes in the audiovisual sector, rapid changes in usage and a sharp decline in the advertising market in 2020. Today, the end of the crisis is on the horizon. As proof, Madam Minister, the beautiful inauguration a few days ago of the new buildings of the House of Culture of Bourges. More than ever, the rapid adoption of a new regulatory framework is necessary to support cultural recovery in our country. The text thus provides concrete answers on three major issues in the field of audiovisual communication. First of all, the protection of the rights of authors, producers, broadcasters, and even sports federations: for this purpose, our arsenal of anti-piracy is muscular and the offending sites that profit commercially from the illegal exploitation of cultural works are precisely targeted. The organisation of our regulation, then: it must be streamlined, modernised and adapted to the gradual convergence of audiovisual and digital. There is a need for a more powerful, more armed and competent regulator over the entire scope of the regulation of audiovisual and digital content. The creation of ARCOM marks the desire to include this action in a broader policy of online content regulation. Finally, the third issue: the text seeks to defend public access to French cinematographic and audiovisual works, which constitute our heritage and forge the cultural identity of France and Europe throughout the world. Thus, this major text is part of the Government's ongoing efforts since 2017 to protect our model of cultural exception, strengthen our audiovisual sector and offer it new weapons in the digital age to compete with international platforms. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Group will therefore vote in favour of the compromise reached with the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u38	On the ordinary bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u39	It is regrettable that the great audiovisual bill promised since the beginning of the quinquennium has been reduced to a grudge. In our view, the text proposed today is not up to the ambition we should have for the audiovisual sector in general and the public service in particular, especially in view of the repeated attacks on this sector. The audiovisual field is undergoing profound changes which should be analysed and dealt with. The public audiovisual service, in particular, is the victim of growing budget cuts. For example, since 2012, France Télévisions' total workforce has decreased by more than 6%. For years, public audiovisual companies have been subjected to successive economic plans that have bleed their workforces, challenged their missions and hindered their development capacity in the face of a much better-armed private sector. Many central issues are not covered by this bill: the audiovisual fee, the tasks of the public audiovisual service, but also the disturbing explosion of advertising in the private sector. The first version of the audiovisual bill examined last year was for commercials: it allowed a third advertising cut, extended the possibilities for product placement and made it legal to broadcast advertisements in a corner of the screen during the broadcast of sports events. These subjects will be dealt with by decrees or ordinances. We oppose such methods, which are usual during this mandate. Questions remain about the future of certain channels in our public audiovisual service. The maintenance of France 4 after months and months of mobilizations by the audiovisual sector and elected representatives is good news, knowing all that the latter brought to the young public during the crisis of the covid. On the other hand, the abolition of France Ô not only aggravated the lack of visibility of our overseas fellow citizens but also reduced the offer for 50 million viewers. Last but not least, this bill does not raise the major issue of media concentration. During the previous reading of the audiovisual bill, we were opposed to the creation of a holding company comprising France Télévisions, Radio France, France Médias Monde and INA, the National Audiovisual Institute, but we see that the process of concentration is under way in the private sector, in particular with the merger of TF1 and M6, the monopolistic situation of which is another blow to the pluralism of information. Together, the two channels would control 70% of the advertising market, or 2.3 billion cumulative revenues. That is why we have been calling since the beginning of the quinquennium for the development of a powerful and democratic public service of audiovisual – I would even say: powerful because democratic – a vector of pluralism and capable of meeting contemporary challenges. Let us return to the text which, despite its lack of ambition, presents some developments, in particular the merger of the CSA and HADOPI within ARCOM, although we regret the lack of a genuine reflection on the evolution of the missions and resources attributed to the new regulatory agency. I welcome the abolition in committee of the system of criminal transactions added to Article 1 by the Senate right. Indeed, we considered that the €350 fine for pirate netizens would penalize the youngest or the neophytes in computer science, who are not the ones who commit the most serious or repeated offences. Piracy of sporting events is, of course, a crucial issue, but it seems to us that it is too artificially dealt with in the bill we are considering. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the end, there are too many gaps in this text to give us frank support. We are also opposed to the content of future decrees and ordinances to take up the problematic aspects of the first version of the audiovisual bill. These are the reasons why we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u40	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u41	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u42	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee to propose a text on the remaining provisions of the bill. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. The Minister is in favour of coordinating amendments Nos. 1 and 2, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u43	These amendments take into account the texts that were voted between the Joint Committee meeting and the examination that we are conducting today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u44	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u45	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u46	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u47	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 49 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u48	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee to propose a text on the remaining provisions of the Organic Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u49	I put the whole organic bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u50	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u51	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u52	The next item is the second reading of the proposal for a law establishing the office of principal or principal (No 3981, 4485).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u53	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u54	Sometimes the Republic has an appointment with itself. This is often the case when we look at legislation on education, and it is particularly true today with the second reading of the bill by Mrs Cécile Rilhac, which deals with one of the most essential functions of our school: that of principal or principal. In our 54,000 schools, in our cities and in our countryside, there is, with teachers, a director or director who is a landmark for everyone – parents, children, teachers and mayors. In the morning at the gate to welcome the children, on the telephone with the inspector or inspector of the national education to deal with an unforeseen, listening to the parents who wonder, worried about a child who does not feel fit, always benevolent, always demanding and, in addition to all this, most of the time, in charge of a class. I know the hard work of school directors and principals, and that is why we have moved forward to improve their discharge – I will return to it. We know that during the pandemic, morning and evening, they were able to cope and organize in all circumstances the continuity of the teachings of the students. This afternoon, very solemnly, I would like here to express my gratitude and gratitude to the principals and school principals of France. They are the heart of our school and, therefore, at the heart of the Government's four-year school policy, whose priority, as you know, is primary school. So we will talk a lot today about school directors and principals and, speaking of them, we will talk about primary school. Nothing will make us deviate from this fundamental path for the students, for their families and for our country. This is the absolute struggle of our nation, because it is a vector of emancipation through the consolidation of fundamental knowledge and vector of freedom, equality and fraternity because the citizens who make up our country were first primary school pupils. The fight of a nation that fights against all fatalisms – those resulting from pessimism, the feeling of impotence and birth – of a nation that wants to give the best to all its children by fighting at the root against the difficulty of school. The general rise in the school level of our country and social justice: that is, in two words, what sums up our desire for primary school, and that goes through a well-positioned principal or principal. During these four years, we have never dissociated raising the level of students from improving the working conditions of teachers and, more broadly, of staff, because we all know that this is a system. The French need to know that their school makes their child succeed. Often, they do not know that the director has no real power. Today we highlight this issue, because teachers have the right to ask society for the right recognition of their commitment – and this is also true of school directors. For four years, we carried out a determined action for primary school. Today, we are no less determined to give directors the right recognition of the essential role they play. Four years ago, we announced a proactive goal: 100% of students had to leave primary school by mastering basic knowledge – reading, writing, counting and respecting others. For four years, we have been able to do so, by lowering the age of compulsory education to 3 years to make nursery school, even more so than today, a school where every child prepares with the same chances to enter basic teachings; By doubling the large section, CP and EC1 classes in priority education so that each teacher has twice as much time to take care of each of the pupils – nearly 350,000 pupils are now affected by this measure – and by limiting the number of classrooms, throughout France, to twenty-four pupils in major kindergarten, CP and EC1 to give all the best conditions of schooling in favour of basic learning. This is also part of the daily life of school principals and principals. In this year's school year, 86% of the general section, CP and EC1 classes in public education, from all territories, receive a total of 24 pupils or less. At the same time, we are committed, in the Grenelle de l'Éducation, to improving the conditions for teachers' exercise and their remuneration – because it is, of course, what they deserve, but also because it is a lever of progress for our children and for our country. In four years, we have thus increased the priority education premium to EUR 5000 by adding almost EUR 3000 to the existing premiums, in order to stabilise the teams, because we know that this is a factor for the progress of the pupils. We've been talking about it for a long time. Today, this premium for the enhanced priority education network, or REP+, is really attractive, so that we can not find in this network just new entrants, but staff who remain for a long time. We have re-aligned the beginnings of teachers' careers, and the attractive bonus will allow for increases of up to 169 euros net per month for a beginner. This will have taken place in less than a year. If it was enough to press a button, it would have been done a long time ago. What has been set in motion with the Grenelle de l'Éducation is a vast process, a dynamic which, we hope, will continue to occur over the next few years. We have also helped to finance the computer equipment of teachers, with a permanent bonus of 150 euros net, which obviously also concerns school directors and principals. All this resulted in budgetary increases for 2022. These increases, which we will discuss in another framework and which have just been presented, represent EUR 1.6 billion for the year 2022 alone. We can be proud of this, because there is no more productive investment for a nation than educational investment. As I have often had the opportunity to repeat for several months, especially in the context of the health crisis, it is not only France, but also Europe and the world that must invest much more in school – in some countries, to remedy the long closure of schools and, in all, to take into account the challenges of the 21st century. This additional investment in education should focus particularly on primary school and should have an impact on the role of principal and principal. As you know, the conditions under which school management is exercised vary widely depending on whether you are in rural or urban areas and in small or large schools, resulting in a wide variety of school profiles, and hence missions. This obliges us to show a lot of pragmatism. We have already taken steps for school management in view of this bill, which is a fundamental milestone in the overall recognition process. Starting in the summer of 2019, I wanted the project to improve the situation of school directors and principals to be part of the ministry's social agenda. This has given rise to a great deal of consultation, the results of which we can see today, a great deal of consultation and negotiation. We released the results of this consultation, which allowed us to measure the extent of the expectation expressed by our school directors and principals. Work has been initiated and initial responses have been provided; I will quote the main ones. First of all, in order to give more autonomy to those who work as school principals and to alleviate their administrative tasks, I wanted them to be given full responsibility for the programming and implementation of the one hundred and eight hours of service per year within the existing regulatory framework. This annual time, in addition to teaching hours, serves – as you know – to support students in difficulty, to receive parents, but also to train themselves. Let us not forget that until the 1970s the principals were responsible for the training of teachers. From now on, the constituency team is helping them and that's a good thing, but we have probably forgotten a little bit that the school principal has always been the driving force behind educational ambition; We've got to get this idea back. This shows that the goal of consolidating the profession of school principal is also to consolidate the teams under his responsibility, in the interest of team spirit. I am not unaware of the objections to this bill: the fear that a hierarchical power will be created, that it will result in a weakening of freedoms on the ground. The opposite is proposed. The more initiatives the director and the director can take, the closer the actions will be to the field, in consultation with the teachers of each institution. Secondly, we have improved the digital management tools so that the directors and directors focus on the essentials, namely the steering of their school. Third, we have been experimenting with a reference function since the last re-entry. Referring to the directorates of the Department of National Education, the focal points provide guidance and guidance to the directors in the performance of their duties; It is an accompaniment that complements the two days of training now granted – at least. The aim of the proposed law is to generalise the experiment. Fourthly, in the autumn of 2020, we paid school directors an exceptional allowance of €450 in recognition of their fundamental role in managing the health crisis. The sustainability of this allowance in 2021 is an additional – but not the last – step in favour of the fair recognition of the conditions for the exercise of these professionals. As part of the Grenelle de l'Éducation, we will continue to upgrade this function. On the other hand, since the beginning of 2021, as I had committed myself to it, a new system of landfills has been introduced: 600 additional jobs are devoted to them and 40% of the directors and directors are involved. Their lives are changed: while they had to constantly juggle among dozens of priorities, they now have time to do their job well. Finally, school principals benefit from the major advances that Grenelle made in 2020 and 2021. I sum up the premiums: an exceptional bonus of 450 euros in 2020, an indemnification of 450 euros per year from 2021, a computer equipment premium of 176 euros per year, an attractiveness premium of 1400 euros per year for the beginnings of career in 2021, to which 800 additional euros will be added in February 2022; Finally, the rate of access to the exceptional class has been improved. Finally, mention should be made of the premiums for priority education in the areas concerned. The aim of this bill is to summarize all these elements while going beyond, with a view to full recognition of school management, including by making directors and directors of real teaching pilots of the school team. The text aims to enshrine, if not strengthen by law, the necessary recognition of the role of school principal and his autonomy, as well as the material and human support to which those who exercise him may claim. I know that we need to go further in the aid that we collectively need to provide to school principals – for the non-law part – but I will come back to that during the debate. The aim of this bill is to strengthen and secure the employment of school principals. It is necessary to recognise the mission of those who occupy it, to recognize their function of stimulating, coordinating, encouraging and harmonising the initiatives of the teaching team; This is what we are working with pragmatism and demand so that they can better and more effectively bridge the gap between families, local communities, teachers and student success. To recognize their role is to recognize their role – that of pilot within a collective, contributing to the exchange of practices, to the coordination of teachings for a better continuity of learning – and it is to recognize their strength of proposal in community support and training so that they better meet the needs of the team of teachers at their school. Constellations, for example, are continuous training processes implemented within the framework of the French Plan and the Mathematical Plan; They are the result of a "horizontal" vision of continuing training, as they respond as closely as possible to the needs identified by the teams themselves, under the coordination of the principals and principals of the school. The two plans thus give us an idea of the form that a broader approach could take to the initiatives taken as close as possible to the field in terms of teacher training. There is, as we can see, a link between our efforts to promote the recognition of the role of director and educational efficiency in the service of pupils. A principal or principal who is stated in his or her duties, he or she is a student who will succeed better tomorrow. To recognize these functions is to better defend the school project with the communities and parents of students, as well as with the school institution as a whole. The school is thus placed in the centre of the village. In short, it is a matter of bringing an additional stone to the building of a school that takes on its full meaning – the meaning given to students' learnings, which are illuminated by research and evaluations; that of the profession of teacher, better recognized, more at the initiative of his teaching, better trained and member of a team; the Director's or Director's missions, a true pedagogical pilot of this team. I want once again to pay tribute to the work of your rapporteur, Cécile Rilhac,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... which has been able to move forward on a fundamental text and which has done so for many months through consultation; I believe it was a model of parliamentary work that allowed listening and maturation. The subject is not simple – otherwise, it would have been settled for a long time. It is important to make international comparisons – we have observed the example of Quebec. Why can't solutions that seem to produce good results in other countries be acclimatized in ours, in keeping with our school tradition and the expectations of the field? These expectations, precisely, have evolved, as demonstrated by the consultation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This debate and the subsequent votes are a reminder that the role of school principal is essential: it is one of the cornerstones of the school system and of primary school. The bill thus consolidates the legitimate place that we must give to school directors and principals in the institution, for the benefit of the whole school in France; I therefore invite you to adopt it very broadly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u57	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u58	I am delighted to start the debate again on my bill to create the position of principal and principal of school. Discussions at first reading in the Assembly and the Senate confirmed that this issue is crucial; It is therefore logical that this text comes before our chamber for a second reading examination. I thank all the colleagues in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education for their involvement and their proposals, which have been very helpful to me in the construction of this bill. I also welcome the contributions and improvements made by our honourable senators, in particular Messrs. Julien Bargeton and Max Brisson. The question of recognition of the duties and responsibilities of school principals is not new. The improvement of their working conditions is an essential point for them, but also for the proper functioning of the school for which they are responsible. Few parents of students – and few people – know this: the principals and principals they see working every day are actually teachers like the others. From a legal point of view, the title of school principal does not exist or have any basis. The text I propose provides answers to the question of recognition of the duties and responsibilities of school principals. The objective is finally to recognize a full and complete function that values its actors and confirms the priority given to primary school – a priority desired by the President of the Republic and confirmed by the proactive policy pursued in this direction for the past four years. Several measures directly affecting principals have been taken as a result of our discussions at first reading. At the end of the consultation with the social partners, you decided – and I thank you, Minister – to sustain the exceptional premium for the €450 covid-19 per year. It now takes the form of an increase in the special hardship allowance paid monthly to each principal. In addition to the compensation aspect, during the school year of 2021, 600 additional posts were devoted to the reinforcement of landfills, the distribution of which was the subject of extensive union consultation. These landfills meet two widely shared objectives in the field as well as in this Chamber. The first is to give more days of discharge to the directors of small schools – those with between one and three classes and which are particularly located in rural departments. The second aims to bring the conditions of practice of kindergarten principals closer to those of elementary principals. These advances have already been adopted, but I am aware that there is still a long way to go, and that is why we are here. The health crisis has shown the investment and professionalism of school principals. They were an essential link, during confinement first, to maintain the link between the members of the educational community and to offer students a real pedagogical continuity, then during the deconfinition to put in place the sanitary protocols, and finally to keep our schools open. Our debate will allow school principals to focus on their essential mission: the steering of their school. The aim is to give them more time, to simplify procedures, but also to accompany them by encouraging exchanges between peers. I hope that this text, once adopted and promulgated, will be translated into concrete developments from the start of the school year of 2022. I turn to the text itself and to the work of the Senate and the Assembly's Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which have led to several developments, while affirming the following objectives: recognition, simplification of tasks, support for the school principal and upgrading of the profession. Recognition, first of all: it requires the affirmation of the essential tasks of the principals of the school. Article 1 strengthens their power of initiative and decision-making. Moreover, the functional authority introduced by senators in this article is far from an aberration. This new terminology allows the idea that a director will now have the opportunity and the duty to act for the proper functioning of his or her school to be enshrined in the law. I would point out, however, that the duties of the principals remain unchanged. Let it be clear: no, the text does not provide for any hierarchical authority. Article 1 establishes a functional authority: in other words, the principal or principal of the school shall have authority in the administrative sense of the term,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u60	...that is, "a legally defined decision-making power" – that's what I mean by functional authority. No, the text does not provide for a peer review assignment to the school principal. No, I mean, he doesn't create new assignments for school principals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u61	All right, let's call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u62	Article 2 creates a job as school principal whose specific tasks and responsibilities are thus recognized. This progress allows a new articulation of the leadership function with tasks that the director already assumes, such as education, training, or coordination. These are not additional missions. The debate will continue on this point but, in my view, the new wording of Article 2, paragraph 8, of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education is balanced. This new wording makes it possible to clarify the procedures for granting educational discharges not only according to the number of classes, but also to the specificities of the school. Thanks to this innovation, many specificities can be taken into account: the diversity of the territories, the diversity and number of pupils, the precariousness in which some children live, and the socio-professional category of parents. The aim is to increase the time spent on landfills, and thus to give even more time to school directors and principals so that they can carry out their duties. This is also the recognition of their core business. The second objective of the text is to simplify and reduce the tasks of school principals: this is a necessity. Article 2 states that they will be discharged from complementary educational activities (CLP) in order to focus on their management tasks. Article 2a provides that administrative and material assistance may be made available to them according to the size and specificities of the school: this is still a much anticipated step forward. I would even say that this measure, along with the landfills, is part of the first requests made by the directors today. In addition, the new wording of Article 5 will make it possible, thanks to the digital vote, to reduce the organisation of the elections of the representatives of the parents of pupils, and Article 6 attributes mainly to the academic authorities the drawing up of the famous special safety plans (PPMS), simplification, again much expected on the ground. The third objective, support for school principals, is the creation of a focal point within each academic direction. This measure responds to the real need of directors to have another contact person other than their superior, the National Education Inspector (ENI). I would point out that he will retain his hierarchical position vis-à-vis teachers and directors: nothing in the text will change that. However, the establishment of referents is important because directors do not always dare to communicate to their hierarchy any difficulties of a very variable nature, which may, for example, concern their relations with parents, elected officials, colleagues; They fear being misjudged or even misrated. In this respect, the referent will be a true support, while remaining a peer among his peers, having himself performed these functions before being discharged from his leadership and teaching duties in order to listen to his colleagues. This progress is also very much expected, and the improvement made by senators is a welcome response to the diversity of the territories. The fourth and final objective of this text is the upgrading of the profession of school principal. Article 2 creates the necessary legal framework for its recognition, clarifying the conditions for appointment, training and exercise. This article also provides for the payment of a specific allowance and a faster progression in the ranks throughout the career. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, this text allows concrete and pragmatic progress; it meets expectations on the ground; It is necessary in order to finally recognize the remarkable work of our school directors and principals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will conclude by stressing that this bill is a first step in improving the working conditions of these professionals. Because of the complexity of the fabric of the 44455 public schools, it is impossible to settle for a global response. A reflection as close as possible to the territories, the needs and specificities of each institution remains necessary in order to facilitate the day-to-day work of the directors. Far beyond political rivalries, this text is guided, I repeat, by a single motivation: to recognize the function and improve the working conditions of our school directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u63	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u64	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, I would like to express my support for the number of national education personnel who came to the outskirts of the Palais-Bourbon in order to express their opposition to this bill. I took part in their collective action: they defend their current framework of work, that is, the council of teachers, and refuse the prospect of a managerial school. They can count on the parliamentary group La France insoubted to relay their demands within this House. During the first reading of the text, you contradicted me when I said that it would ultimately lead to the creation of a new statute for school principals. I was alerting you at the time about the massive rejection of this status by the profession itself: according to various opinion polls, more than 89% of those concerned denounce this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u65	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u66	The President of the Republic finally gave me reason to assume your intentions. On 2 September, in Marseilles, he announced a major reform for "the school of the future", including the ambition of a new statute for school principals. I listened carefully to his speech: what awaits us, if we do not quickly change course, is an even greater liberalization of the public service of education, starting with the conversion of school principals to HRD – directors of human resources. Indeed, in the school of the future, President Macron said, the teaching teams will be recruited by the director who became head of the school, a mix between teachers, who belong to the national education system, and not teachers, who are employed by the communities. Derogations from national school rhythms will become possible; In short, after the declining labour code undertaken per company, we will be entitled to an unequal school system, varying according to the schools, therefore according to the territories. The bill that we are considering again today, aimed at creating the office of school principal, serves only as a stepping stone to the destructive project of the President of the Republic and Minister Blanquer in the field of education. There is no teacher union calling for the creation of this function, as planned. I have discussed with the inter-union on the court of the Palais-Bourbon: it calls for the complete abandonment of the text, and more means rather than more hierarchy. Despite this, you continue to set the stage for a school principal status that threatens republican equality, as well as the principle of territorial equality of the public education service. Contrary to what Mr Blanquer meant in our debates at first reading, we do not want to abolish any hierarchy in national education: we believe that a hierarchy is necessary in first-level education, that it exists and that it should therefore not be changed. This hierarchical framework is embodied in the INE, the superior of teachers, including principals, who are themselves teachers of schools; It has to stay that way. Now, as proof of your willingness to prioritize the school, you expect the director to have a delegation from the academic authority in order to ensure the proper functioning of the school he runs, which amounts to making him a manager in his school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u67	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u68	According to the Decree of 24 February 1989 on principals, the latter "represents the institution to the commune and other local authorities", a provision which is sufficient to enable it to carry out its tasks. However, in the explanatory memorandum to your text, it is deplored from the first paragraph that the Director finds himself "without real decision-making power" and suggested that he become "decision-maker in the debates". Your goal therefore lies in the abolition of the collegial operation of primary school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u69	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u70	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u71	In addition, you want to amend the Education Code so that the principal no longer only gives his or her opinion, but endorses the decisions of the school board. Even before this text was put to the vote, a communiqué from the Ministry of National Education, dated 2 July, indicated that directors could now decide on the allocation of 108 hours of annual service due by teachers in addition to their 24 hours per week in front of students. Thus they will organize alone, without any consultation of the council of teachers, the working time of their teachers, who will have ceased to be their peers. As for the remuneration of these future school HRDs, you are considering a specific plan, which will in fact create a separate body from that of teachers. Currently, all principals benefit from 8 points of index bonus, plus an additional 2 points depending on the size of the school, as well as a special hardship allowance for management, which itself consists of a common main part and a variable share related to the size of the school. In total, they receive an additional gross monthly remuneration of 240 to 445 euros, plus, as you said, in the priority education networks, REP and REP+. However, in the explanatory memorandum to the text you refer to an increase in the allowance from 150 to 300 euros gross: according to the CGT Education, this amounts to 50 to 12 euros net per month, i.e. a derisory sum. We would prefer an index bonus that would be taken into account in the calculation of current pensions. In addition, I would like to take this opportunity to state that under no circumstances should the directors be appointed by the academy inspector, as originally envisaged in this bill: the function could have been conferred and withdrawn in accordance with the Inspector's wishes, which would constitute an unacceptable means of pressure. Like the unions, I find the current system satisfactory – registration on the aptitude list after advice from the joint administrative committee of the department, then participation in the movement and assignment according to the number of points accumulated during the career. Subsequently, the Director may be withdrawn from his employment only after notice of the same commission. This system guarantees relative transparency in the allocation of posts, controlled by trade unions, which we wish to maintain. [[Mrs Maud Petit protested]] I would also like to warn you about the legal responsibility you wish to transfer a part of on the shoulders of the school principal: it is to be feared that the hierarchy may take advantage of it to get rid of him. I regret that these provisions are being referred back to the regulatory area, because this important subject would have merited a legislative debate. The blurry of the current text suggests that your goal is to keep you free, I repeat, to make the director a manager responsible for recruiting teachers and other members of the educational team – in order to respond to the wishes of the President of the Republic. To sum up, this bill does not in any way address the difficulties of school principals, as listed in the explanatory memorandum. Once again, the creation of the post of director and thus increasing the hierarchy within education will not solve these problems of administrative burdens, of safety management, of access to school, of insufficient discharge time or of too low remuneration, which in fact concern not only directors but also their colleagues. Even though they concerned only 25 % of the establishments and did not know about rural areas, the landfills provided for at the first reading stage were abolished; the Minister's circular awards are not up to date. The replacement posts to allow directors to take their discharge days will never be in sufficient numbers until new posts with decent income are opened for competitive examinations. Colleagues, just a few months from the presidential election, we see that education, working conditions and the remuneration of teachers occupy the public debate. That's a good thing. Only this bill is part of a vision of the school modelled on the business model, of which I do not want. I prefer to defend the public service, the collegial and democratic functioning of primary school. In the face of overburdening and lack of resources, the State must shoulder its responsibilities by increasing landfills, including in rural areas, as well as providing the necessary human and material assistance. This text and the strategy it pursues go absolutely against such ambitions. Just as with Bill 4D – Decentralization, Differentiation, Deconcentration and Decomplexation – now 3DS – Differentiation, Decentralization, Deconcentration and Simplification – rural areas and neighbourhoods suffer from your liberal policies aimed at differentiating access to public services. That is why I ask you to hear the request of the overwhelming majority of interested parties:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u72	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... let us abandon this text, let us vote in favour of this motion to reject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u74	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is for Mr Gaël Le Bohec.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u75	This evening the Bronner Commission will be set up, which aims to understand and measure the dangers that digital technology can pose to national cohesion, to democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of La France, I would like to make some adjustments. You're giving numbers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u76	The percentage of school principals opposed this reform: 89%!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u77	...without citing your sources. I would appreciate it if we showed consistency and respect. Directors are watching us on television, others are following our discussions here in the gallery, and I would like to congratulate them. You argued in committee that none of them were in favour of this text, that it was unanimous against it; However, like us, you have also had to receive unions of directors who want and support this legislative development. Clearly, your relationship to the hierarchy is not simple: be it! I accept it all the more as I understand it more by looking at some figures: an article in the Figaro, at the end of 2018, referred to you as the most monolithic group, the one who, in seventeen texts, had practically no divergence in his votes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to point out that this bill was drafted in consultation. The rapporteur Cécile Rilhac, who has been working there for several years, has visited dozens of different territories to interview school directors and principals, with great respect. She spoke with senators to change the text. No, this bill advocated by the majority does not confer hierarchical authority on school principals. It has only one intention: to recognize, devote and highlight the missions they already carry out. It entrusts them with a functional authority that will assist them in the implementation of the school's pedagogical project, as close as possible to the field, and which will enable them to carry out all their tasks, of course, as well as of coordination and training. It will provide them with access to a career-long training offer and administrative assistance, as requested. It is for these reasons that we will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u78	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Republican Group sincerely regrets the arrival of this motion of rejection. The opportunity to debate the school is too rare in this House so that we can miss out on the debate. The text will finally clarify the legal framework attached to the role of school principal. Ladies and gentlemen of La France, you say that 89% of teachers are opposed to it, but you had to read the survey backwards, because 89% of teachers are waiting for this text. So let's debate it! I repeat: the LR Group will oppose this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u80	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The school institution has undergone major changes in recent years, as has the management function. We must therefore, without delay, anchor this function in the marble of the law, out of respect for our school directors and principals who need recognition, a framework and means. In view of the considerable work done by our two chambers over the last few months, it also seems to us astonishing and desolating to see today a motion to reject this text. As you will know, the Dem Group will therefore vote against the motion put forward by our colleagues in La France insoumée.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u82	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u83	The text we are looking at this afternoon at second reading does not meet the expectations of school principals. Since its sources need to be cited, I recall the ministry's investigation in 2019 to launch the consultation. The school principals clearly expressed their expectations. Increasing their discharge time, simplifying administrative procedures and human aid for the management of administrative and material tasks: they legitimately demand a reduction in their tasks. However, the text adds to their tasks, given the prospects for training and coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u84	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u85	Unfortunately, the bill does not provide a response to the situation of school principals of less than four classes, who are the majority in our rural territories. These managers are unable to be replaced during their discharge time. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In addition, we are firmly opposed to the notion of functional authority: it suggests that the collegial organization that operates within our schools is no longer relevant. For example, the rapporteur, we do not understand why you refuse to include in the marble, as you did at first reading, that the directors will not have hierarchical authority. For these few reasons, our group will vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u86	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u87	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] First of all, I believe that, on all benches, we respect school directors and principals, as well as teachers. It seems important to me to say that they are doing a great, very difficult job, and that we support them with strength and conviction. Each then develops its arguments. But I cannot let you say, Mr Larive, that we want to liberalize the school and that we consider it a kind of business: well, no! What we have been doing for four and a half years now is strengthening equal opportunities. Double classes as a priority education network and as an enhanced priority education network means giving more to those who have less social and cultural capital at the outset. You may have dreamed of it, but we did.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u88	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u89	We put in place the Duty Made system because it seemed important to us to help children in need of school support. It is for the same purpose that we have carried out the reform of the baccalaureate and guidance: to promote equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u90	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] When we act to upgrade the profession and increase teachers' incomes, we fight for the school. And when we increase the national education budget as we have done for the past five years, it is because we believe in school and believe in teachers, directors and directors. I do not want to let it be said that we want to liberalize the school and that we consider it to be business. We are fighting for equal opportunities, with very significant evidence for four and a half years now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u92	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u93	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Our group will not vote on this motion to reject. To reject the debate on this text seems inconceivable: finally, we are talking about the situation of directors! We believe that we must represent them, debate, support progress, perhaps express our concerns and expectations. What is certain is that the directors deserve our full recognition, and we will express it by participating in the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u94	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u95	[[A Member of the LaREM group]] Producing a law to solve the serious difficulties faced by school principals was an imperative that you dealt with as early as 2018, but, three years later, the second version of the bill aimed at solving these famous difficulties appears, I tell you clearly, as a farce and manipulation. Yes, a farce, because far from responding to the heavy problems faced by school principals, this bill tends to amplify them. Perhaps it is worth recalling what the duties and duties of a school principal are, and the difficulties he encounters. It faces an increasing administrative workload and an overload in the logistical management of the school, to the detriment of what is at the heart of its function: the coordination of the teaching team, its animation, the monitoring of pupils, the relationship with the parents and with the institutions of the local authorities. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, when school principals ask for a reduction in their burden, the bill burdens them with new tasks and responsibilities with vague outlines. When they request more hours of discharge, the new version of the text no longer provides for any improvement in this direction. When they ask for real administrative assistance, you sneeze about the possibility of jobs in an integration contract that represent more of a burden than an aid – etc., etc. But when these directors say they don't want hierarchical relationships – you've received tons of emails in this direction! –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u96	No, not tons!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u97	A little silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u98	... you establish a functional authority, coupled with the delegation of powers of the academic authority, by refusing to include in the body articles which the director does not exercise hierarchical authority over the teachers of his school. That's where the manipulation nests! Because, in addition to new missions and responsibilities, you impose your managerial vision of the school. It is not without echoing the presidential discourse of Marseille and experimentation in laboratory schools...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u99	I invite you to conclude, Mrs Rubin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] ...where principals could choose their teachers. Ask yourself why they don't want to do it! We will vote against the motion to reject this bill, which does not address the working conditions of the directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u101	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u102	Our group is reserved on the content of the text. Of course, we know the importance and irreplaceability of the work of school principals. We take note of the ill-being of many of them, in particular their lack of recognition. In the face of this situation, the first steps that have been taken are welcome. The return bonus, in particular, as well as other positive measures referred to decrees, must be welcomed. There is clearly no consensus on the text. The profession is largely committed to teamwork and many directors – not all of them, but many of them – do not want to create a status comparable to that of secondary school heads; In fact, they called us in that direction. In this respect, like other colleagues, we want to understand how functional authority will really change their working conditions. Should the text be rejected a priori? No. We are still in favour of democratic debate on this and other texts. We hope that, in this debate, everyone will express their views on this important subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u103	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u104	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 72 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 17 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u105	In the general discussion, the floor was for Ms Sylvie Charière.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Cécile Rilhac, who has been defending this text since the beginning, and to pay tribute to his tenacity. Since 2018 and the drafting of a report with Valérie Bazin-Malgras – which I welcome –, the rapporteur has been working tirelessly on this subject. I would also like to pay tribute to my colleagues in the La République Group on the move. Many of them, sometimes former school principals themselves, have invested heavily both to enrich the bill and to contribute to its success. I thank them for that. Many representatives of the profession have also recently expressed their support and told us how much this bill is expected. The consultation launched in 2019 with school principals, following a tragic event that marked each of us, was revealing. It has led to the emergence of three central expectations, which remain our guideline: the need to reduce the workload of school principals; the need for human and material reinforcements; the desire to benefit from more solid training. Mr Minister, you have repeatedly expressed in this Chamber your willingness to improve the day-to-day lives of school principals. I welcome the introduction of strong measures following the Grenelle de l'Éducation: a €450 bonus for all school principals and an improvement in the discharge regime which already covers 40% of directors. These decisions demonstrate that the Government and the presidential majority fully share the will to take action to enable school principals to perform their duties as best they can. As you pointed out yesterday, today we are addressing crucial issues for school principals. First of all, in Article 1, delegation of powers and functional authority: by giving the director more responsibilities, we strengthen his autonomy and his ability to act and make decisions in a spirit of educational collective. The work in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has made it possible, I hope, to clarify things and to reassure ourselves that we want to create a real directorship without disrupting the unique organisation of our schools. No, we do not create a hierarchy between the director and the teachers, we maintain the fundamental balance that exists on this point. Another issue is the reduction of bureaucratic constraints associated with the Director's missions. It is the subject of article 6, which deals with the prevention and safety plan, but also with article 5, which, while simplifying the process of electing representatives of parents of pupils, aims at strengthening democratic participation. As we know, the role of the school principal in our public policies is crucial. He must ensure the proper functioning of his school, the relationship with the parents of the pupils, the coordination between the teachers and the relations with the inspector of the national education, the municipality and all other partners, including associations – in short, everything concerning his institution. Although at the centre of the education system, the principal has little room for manoeuvre. Creating a function means recognizing and valuing its role. If it is essential to make this profession attractive again, it is also, let us not forget, because we work every year to find teachers who want to be in charge of management. Our work in committee has made progress on this point. In article 2, paragraph 4, we obtained that the requirement of three years' seniority in the position of teacher was sufficient to be placed on the aptitude list, as opposed to five years at first reading. This will allow young teachers who wish to invest differently in their school to do so sooner. These candidates will receive training that will guarantee a more serene entry into the profession and they will then be able to benefit from the support of referents. The redrafting of article 2, paragraph 7, confirms a strong position regarding school principals' discharges. These must be adapted to the diversity of our schools and take account of their specificities. Whether they are located in rural communes or in neighbourhoods covered by city policy, all schools are different, especially since geographical disparities are added, for some, to the care of children with special needs or specific forms of organisation. Article 2 bis deals with another major subject, which corresponds to a major concern of school principals: the need for administrative and material assistance. It offers a first response: we have hoped that the State, as well as the municipalities and their groups, will be able to participate in the establishment of this administrative aid. That is why we have re-established this co-participation. Not to give the municipalities and their groups this opportunity tomorrow, it would be to go back and even question their skills in the management of elementary and nursery schools. As we know, many municipalities are already helping the directors by providing them with human and material assistance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Gatel also applauds]] This bill is only a first step, but it is a giant step towards recognizing the role of school principal and improving working conditions. It will undoubtedly require further adjustments and the Working Republic Group is pleased to be able to discuss this subject again and to find collective answers to this central issue for today's and tomorrow's school, namely, the strengthening of the leadership and decision-making capacities of the directors and the improvement of their working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u107	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u108	This bill allowed us to pay real attention to the situation of school principals, indispensable links in our educational system that unite the various members of an educational team. But the heaviness of their daily tasks – I don't have enough time to enumerate them – is not taken into account and they cruelly lack recognition and time. And here I want to pay tribute once again to the time-consuming work that each of them is doing. During the examination of the law for a school of trust, several of us asked for a true recognition of this function of director accompanied by the corresponding means. Madam rapporteur, Minister, I thank you again for giving us the opportunity to discuss this very important subject, both for the directors and for the future of our school. The first reading of this text was an opportunity to highlight the often very difficult situation of our school principals. It was important to recognize, in this bill, the particular place they occupy. In this regard, I welcome the developments made by our colleagues in this chamber through useful changes that ensure better support for our directors, while correctly clarifying their missions. The concept of functional authority strikes the right balance between recognizing the status of school principal and maintaining the important principle that he remains a teacher in the same way as his colleagues. If this text rightly recognizes the special status of our principals, we must not forget that they are above all seeking more favourable conditions to carry out their work properly. On the issue of compensation and landfills, I hope that your services, Minister, will remain responsive to the ground so as not to lose the benefits of a situation that is improving but that remains fragile. It should be noted that school principals want to be given more time to carry out the tasks essential to the pilotage of their school, to the benefit of the students' success. Effective release of time for school principals can be achieved either by increasing educational discharges or by providing administrative assistance. We should welcome the article which provides for the provision of special facilities for schools in need, but also stresses that all directors need resources, whether their schools are small or large, wherever they are located. If I can imagine that material aid may depend on the municipalities, I believe that it is up to the State to guarantee administrative assistance to these establishments – I will present an amendment to that effect. There should not be any disparities between the municipalities that can easily finance the necessary investments and those that cannot, and there are. I also want to relay the questions of teachers and directors following the announcements made by the President of the Republic in Marseille, which, it must be said, surprised us. I really believe, Mr Minister, that experiments can be a good thing, but they must be well defined, well explained, and above all that Parliament must be able to assess the results before it can see if it is really beneficial to make a change. We proposed an amendment to that effect, but it was unfortunately considered inadmissible. Finally, it is necessary to ask the question of the place of the persons acting as directors. If the selection and training of principals are not to be called into question, it is important to give priority to a principal acting as principal during the year so that he or she will remain in charge of his or her school the following year. I will defend an amendment to that effect. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] Our colleague Cécile Rilhac's proposal seems to us to be going in the right direction overall, but it does not satisfy us fully. We will vote in favour so that we do not oppose the beneficial arrangements it provides. However, we remain firmly committed to certain measures that have unfortunately been rejected and we will continue to defend them so that school principals can obtain humane working conditions. In order to stop receiving distress messages, so that there is never more Christine Renon, we must have ambition for our school, prepare for the future of our children and think of tomorrow's school: let us not forget that our directors and directors are an essential link.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u109	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u110	The principals and principals of primary schools are in great difficulty today, for lack of means and consideration, and it is not your bill, alas, that will meet their needs. You take advantage of the opportunity to implement your managerial and liberal vision of the school, without, however, openly assuming it, which distorts the debate. However the teachers of the schools are not fooled: several unions have called for rallies today before the National Assembly, the parliamentary offices and the directorates of the departmental departments of national education to protest against your bill. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] The demands of the directors are, however, concrete. What do they want? They ask for statutory administrative assistance in each school, a real reduction in administrative tasks, an increase in management discharge quotas and a weekly discharge. In response, you create a functional authority that actually involves a hierarchical authority that does not say its name...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u111	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u112	... and which the main concerned do not want. A consultation launched in November 2019 by the Ministry of National Education with school principals confirms this: only 11% of them expressed support for the creation of a statute and only 3% expressed a need for more autonomy. A school principal is not a head of a school, he is a teacher in charge of coordinating the teaching teams, a peer among his peers, guaranteeing pedagogical collegiality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u113	That's exactly what we're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u114	As far as workload is concerned, you can see that you assign them additional tasks and responsibilities, the framework of which is sometimes unclear. Thus they will be delegated functions that were previously the responsibility of the academic authority and will be responsible for training and coordination. Directors will now participate in the supervision of the education system, i.e. the ministry will be able to entrust them with assessment missions, for example, in the maintenance of the career appointment, simply using the regulatory route. In addition, these new tasks, defined in consultation with the academic inspection, would go through individual negotiations, breaking the statutory framework, individualising the missions of each director and leaving him alone in the face of his hierarchy, without looking at the unions. So you're going to increase the workload of school principals by entrusting them with tasks they don't ask for. Besides, it's no coincidence...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u115	Conplotist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u116	... if this bill is debated at the time when the President of the Republic announces an experiment of the school of the future in Marseilles. Once it has been approved, it will make it possible to spread it more quickly throughout the country. So it's a prerequisite. The vision of the school-business that you are advocating will be set up in 50 establishments in Marseille. For the time being, schools are not rushing to participate, which should prompt you to question yourself. School teachers were hoping for the renovation of 174 dilapidated schools. Again, you answer next door. With this experiment, a school principal will have the opportunity to rethink learning projects, school rhythms, recreation, course duration and how to teach with the teaching teams, whether or not they have been recruited. What is happening here is the end of the current method of assigning teachers and therefore the link between the competition and the position. In short, it is the status of teacher official that is attacked. If this experiment were widespread, public schools would then function like private schools under contract: teachers who would pass the competition would then have to approach the institution in which they wish to teach.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u117	We're in fiction politics right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u118	No, we are not in politics-fiction, dear colleague, but in the ideological line that the Government wants to put in place and you lend yourself to this game. This bill, it is important to reiterate, is a prerequisite for the generalization of the liberal vision of the Government in the elementary school. As it is already at work in higher education and research, it is not surprising that you wish to extend it. Competition between schools, professors, administrative staff and school officials will be just as harmful as competition between universities and researchers has been for higher education and research. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Your bill does not address the problems faced by school principals and opens Pandora's box. That is why, of course, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u119	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u120	Regularly, we discuss the situation of school principals, aware that this situation is no longer satisfactory, given the difficulties encountered on a daily basis by these women and men who are so devoted to their profession and to the public service. Let us remember that in 2019, when the bill for the school of trust was being considered, this subject came up again in an amendment introduced in the Senate that created a hierarchical status for these school principals, which was subsequently deleted. Last year, the debate on the hierarchical or non-hierarchical nature of the statute resurfaced on the occasion of the first reading of this bill and here we are, a year later, meeting for its second reading. Over the past two years, there has been a strong case for a change in the profession of school principal, with an increased sense of urgency. In September 2019, Christine Renon's dramatic suicide at her nursery school in Pantin highlighted the difficult daily life of the directors. In the letter she left, she explained her workload, the absurdity of administrative tasks and, finally, the loss of sense of her job. We know these things only too well. To this was added the health crisis which has not ended to oversolive school principals and, more broadly, all the educational staff. This is obviously no longer acceptable. Every year, we continue to deplore an ever-increasing number of Director vacancies. Some directors eventually give up, others admit not having asked to perform this function, the majority fortunately makes the choice to remain despite the difficulties, animated that they are by the sense of public service and the love of pedagogy. The consultation set up by the Government allowed for initial progress, in particular to limit the sense of loneliness of directors and to perpetuate the start-up bonus. However, other messages continue to raise concerns among teachers and managers about the future of their profession, and these concerns need to be addressed. Let us first take those from this text. Initially, there was a question of functional use, but a change was made to the concept of functional authority. This functional authority, if not a hierarchical authority, continues to divide. In addition to this, Emmanuel Macron's recent announcements in Marseilles and his desire to experiment in some fifty schools in the city as early as the fall of 2022, the freedom for school principals to choose the teachers of their teaching team. Once again, the idea of a potential hierarchical authority has come back to watermarking, even though we know that the profession remains very attached to team functioning and that many school principals do not want the creation of a status comparable to that of secondary school principals. Above all, they care about the cumulation of their function with the work in the classroom. The surveys carried out with them attest to this: what animates them are the pedagogical missions and the follow-up of the students. This is why the majority of them reject the idea of being given hierarchical status, which would involve belonging to a different administrative body than that of teachers. However, let us not be mistaken about debate and fall into the trap of thinking that the only relevant question is whether or not to create a hierarchical status. The priority is to improve the working conditions of school principals on a daily basis: they need more discharge time and human support to manage the complexity of the tasks within the school. The text contains positive measures that should be welcomed, such as the creation of a reference. Landfills and the reclamation of compensation are referred to decrees, but the bill is a first step on these issues. On the other hand, it does not provide a satisfactory solution to the lack of administrative and secretarial assistance in some schools. The drastic reduction in assisted jobs since 2017 has created a vacuum, forcing some school principals to work Monday to Sunday without any help. To remedy this, the text proposes the mobilization of young people in civic service and the possibility for the State and the communities to provide them with administrative or material assistance. This measure, introduced by Article 2a, is not satisfactory given the territorial inequalities and the optional nature of this assistance. We will therefore propose that we return to the drafting of the Senate so that the State systematically takes charge of these means. As you will have understood, the Libertés et territoires group retains its reservations about this text, which does not meet the demands of directors and teachers, always waiting for an improvement in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u121	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u122	Today, at second reading, we are considering the bill creating the position of principal or principal. We started discussing this topic more than two years ago, the draft of which was born after the consultation launched by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports following the suicide of Christine Renon in Pantin. This school principal, like others, had denounced the overload of work related to administrative tasks and the deterioration of working conditions, sometimes leading to a loss of sense of the profession. In some territories, school directors and principals are now resorting to the dismantling of public services and the reduction in the number of contacts for parents. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that you have been like me, as local elected officials, alerted to difficult social situations. Helping families in difficulty has become a full-fledged activity for school principals and principals. The Act of 11 February 2005 on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities, known as the Inclusive School Act, also increased their workload, as did the health protocols related to the covid-19 epidemic, but they did not receive any additional assistance in exchange. The existing tasks are becoming more complex and new tasks are emerging: the demands of school directors and principals for greater discharge of their administrative tasks, better working conditions and higher wages are therefore entirely legitimate. Each measures the importance of significantly improving the working conditions of school principals. Unfortunately, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left considers that this bill does not meet the expectations that school directors and principals have expressed for so long. Worse still, some of the measures contained in the text go back to their requirements. As has been pointed out by several colleagues, the consultation conducted by the Ministry concluded that there was a categorical refusal by school directors and principals to exercise hierarchical authority over teachers. Even before the consultation, their position was known in the world of education. However, article 1, which is the core of the text, gives the school principal functional authority over school teachers. At no time is there any mention made of the role of the council of teachers, yet central within the French schools. The democratic functioning of the council of teachers makes the peculiarity of school management in our country. We all know how much the teaching staff of national education are attached to this body, which was established in 1908 to promote power-sharing on educational issues. All government attempts – this one is not the first – to return to this model have led to a lifting of shields on the part of the profession. The French school does not recognize "little chefs". The authority and credibility of the principal comes precisely from the fact that he is a peer among the peers. During the examination of the bill in committee, socialist and unsubstantiated colleagues tried to clarify in the bill that the director did not exercise hierarchical authority over the teachers in his school, but all their attempts were swept away by a turn of hands. The Government clearly did not want to reassure those who participated in the consultation of the Ministry and expressed their categorical refusal to exercise hierarchical authority over teachers... It is an ultraliberal ideology of school that permeates this text! A few moments ago, one of our colleagues denounced the alleged conspiracy to link this measure with Emmanuel Macron's intention to allow Marseille school principals to recruit their teaching staff directly. No, it's not conspiracy: it's an ultraliberal school project!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u123	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u124	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is one of the reasons why we will oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u125	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u126	First of all, allow me to congratulate you, the rapporteur, on your commitment and your work on the ground to defend this bill creating the position of principal or principal of school. Mr Minister, in response to the arguments put forward by the Members of the French Parliament and, at the moment, by Elsa Faucillon, I would like to recall why we have been supporting you for four and a half years. They spoke of ultraliberal schools and denounced the contempt of the majority for teachers and school principals. It's the opposite, really, and I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u127	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u128	First of all, when we increase the national education budget as we have done for four and a half years, it is because we believe in school...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u129	What about when we take out posts?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u130	... and the principle of equal opportunities which it embodies. Secondly, when we divide the classes of CP and EC1 into the schools of the priority education networks and those of the strengthened priority education networks – that is, when we give more resources to the elementary classes that accommodate children with less social and cultural capital – it is because we believe in school and equal opportunities. It was this government that did it, not a socialist government! I'm sure you're sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u131	Lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u132	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] You could have taken such steps when you were in charge, but you didn't! When we did the reform of the baccalaureate and the orientation, we defended the same vision of education and we guaranteed the equal opportunities that founded the Republican Pact and the mission of the school. Finally, Minister, if we have supported you for four and a half years, it is because you have always consistently and consistently defended the Republic and secularism at the heart of the school. This seems essential to us because the school must enable every child to emancipate himself and build his own future and freedom. Colleagues, we love the school and we support school directors and principals just as we support teachers. They are the architects of tomorrow's world because they are preparing the future of our children. That is why we have worked with the rapporteur on this text. School principals have many responsibilities. Little to say, the management of a school is a full-time commitment. In order to carry out their mission properly, they lack adequate time and resources, on the one hand, and a function recognized as such, on the other. The current situation, of course, generates tensions and a sense of impotence, or even fatigue, among these professionals, to such an extent that it has become very difficult to attract younger generations to positions of principal or principal. In fact, too many posts remain vacant today. Since 2017, the Government has acted. It gave greater recognition to the heads of schools by allocating new financial, human and material resources, granting them an additional day of discharge and aligning the discharge regime of elementary schools with that of nursery schools. The Government had also introduced a new system of support for school principals, strengthened their role as a teacher pilot and paid each of them a return grant of 450 euros in February 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u133	A wonderful world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u134	With this text, we will revalue the very meaning of their mission at the heart of the school and our project for equal opportunities. The bill affirms the decision-making status of the school principal in terms of teaching and the daily life of the school. It is essential to include in the marble of the law the tasks assigned to the function in order to legitimize the status of the principal of the school with the teaching team and with the parents of pupils, of which he is the first contact. The Group of the European People's Party believes that the proposal for a law is in the right direction by valuing the status of principals and preparing them for them by means of solid prior training. A pillar of national education, principals and principals ensure the well-being of all and the success of all. Here's the priority! It is therefore crucial that the law gives greater legitimacy to school principals, commensurate with their mission and work. When you love school and want to serve it, when you think about the future of children and want to support school directors, teachers and teachers, you don't try to put them against each other, but to bring them together. That is exactly what we have been doing for four and a half years. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] When large budgets are allocated to schools and when historical reform such as class duplication is implemented, the role of the opposition should be to support the government's policy rather than criticise it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u135	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u136	Ganged by communalism and multiculturalism, perverted by deconstruction, affected by the ensauvagement of society, the school of the Republic is undeniably in danger. Its essential mission of transmitting the knowledge and values of the Republic, in the rejection of any discrimination, is further challenged every day. No more, the search for excellence, the merit and the learning of respect for everyone! Too many renunciations and levelling down have led to the current situation. This is not a fatality. There is still time to reverse a dangerous trend for our future. As elected representatives of the nation, it is our responsibility to restore the school's landmarks, a course to follow and the means to meet the challenges. The bill we are considering at second reading contributes very indirectly to this mission by remedying a legal vacuum that is detrimental to the proper functioning of our schools. Expectations on the ground are strong because, as has been pointed out, the tasks entrusted to school principals have increased particularly in recent years. In 85% of our schools, directors are teachers who provide leadership responsibilities in addition to their teaching responsibilities. Their decision-making power is limited, but their additional workload increases over time. By forcing them to establish an evolving protocol and to deal with various situations, the health crisis has been a powerful indicator of the place they occupy and the statutory shortcomings they suffer. However, I would like to commend their professionalism throughout this period. While the ambition to give recognition to the duties and responsibilities of school principals is not new, the question has therefore arisen with increasing urgency in recent months. The status quo is neither tenable nor desirable. Everything that can improve the smooth running of institutions and the attractiveness of the profession is in the right direction. Thus, in both the Senate and the National Assembly, we have been animated by an open and constructive spirit, provided that the law does not defeat – as it does too often – the regulatory power. That is why the Republican Group is in favour of creating a statute giving school principals first recognition, then autonomy and finally additional resources. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] In view of the exchanges that I have been able to conduct in my constituency and the reservations that have been raised, I also point out that if the reference has been deleted by the Senate, the authority that the principals will have will be not hierarchical but functional; It is necessary for the fulfilment of their tasks, which are specific and specific. Nevertheless, let me make three regrets. First of all, we regret that some amendments to the Senate have not been accepted when they appear to us to be timely, such as those relating to the training of directors. Indeed, it seems to me particularly useful, given the requirements of the position, for directors to be subject to certification training. Similarly, in Article 2a, the Commission has re-established the possibility for municipalities or their groups to provide school principals with material and administrative assistance in addition to that of the State. The Senate had, quite rightly, amended the text, in order to warn of the high risk of inequality between the communes and groups that could provide these valuable aids and those that could not, especially since it was above all a matter of State competence. Rural schools are likely to be the first to be affected by this, unless the state undertakes to compensate for the imbalance, but we know how things end, too often, on the ground. The second regret relates to the method used, which consists of legislating in pieces to please the majority. It's a waste of time, isn't it? It would probably have been more useful to include this measure in the law for a school of trust. Finally, we regret, thirdly, that we were unable to convince you to adopt several of our proposals, in particular those of our colleague Constance Le Grip, which would allow the majority to be in tune with the presidential announcements. The amendments in question were considered inadmissible, but I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss them in the coming minutes. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that we will reach agreement on this indispensable text, which undoubtedly contributes to improving the functioning of our schools. For its part, the Republican Group, which I represent, will vote in favour. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, let me make a wish: I hope that the school of the Republic will soon return to its compass, so that it becomes this place of knowledge and demand that it should never cease to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u137	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u138	"A school principal has powers that Prime Minister was never given," said Winston Churchill. Indeed, in primary education, the director ensures the proper functioning of each kindergarten or elementary school and makes every provision for the school to perform its public service function, that which, since the law of 2013 for the re-establishment of the school of the Republic, directs it to be "a place of success, autonomy and development for all; a place of awakening to the envy and pleasure of learning, to intellectual curiosity, to the openness of mind". The principal ensures that the best conditions for cultivating the adults of tomorrow are met: a huge task and a heavy responsibility! It had therefore become necessary to clearly define its function. What mission, what duties, what role, what tools and what framework for school directors and principals? That is the objective of the bill advocated by our colleague Cécile Rilhac, whose second reading we are now beginning. Its text thus seeks to change the tasks and responsibilities of school principals, who have been regularly at the heart of debates on public policy in the field of school education. Our principals, apart from having a coherent legal framework, do not enjoy the recognition that should be given to them. The revision of their function is demanded by many; It is essential, as the scope of their prerogatives and their tasks has expanded. The function of school principal suffers from well-identified shortcomings: low salary valorisation, lack of time and administrative support, too heavy tasks, lack of support and recognition during the career, loneliness. Yet the responsibilities attached to it are important. Thus, this afternoon's bill is the result of a broad consultation with the public concerned, a ministerial commitment to improving the situation of the directors and a constructive and thoughtful work carried out by our two chambers. Article 1 defines the principal's essential tasks and acts on his or her decision-making role. However, the director remains a teacher like the others, an integral part of the teaching team. This principle of primus inter pares, at the basis of the concept of work, cooperative and horizontal, which prevails in the primary sector, remains unchanged. Teachers are particularly attached to it, in that it preserves their pedagogical autonomy. Article 2 creates a functional job as school principal and acknowledges the need for prior training, which will, in particular, enable the director to receive an annual specific management allowance, to pursue his career in his original corps in an accelerated manner, and to be discharged from classes in establishments with at least eight classes. In committee, several amendments stressed the importance of autonomy and social dialogue. For example, members of the Movement Démocratique (MODEM) and related democrats have been granted the flexibility of the training requirement every five years, added by the Senate, by calling for a preference for a regular training offer. It seemed to us healthy to allow the teaching staff the freedom to organize and work in concert on this issue. With regard to Article 2a, our group, like the rapporteur, has taken a position in favour of re-establishing the original version of the text, which we believe to be more balanced, since it opens up the possibility for the State to take over the powers of administrative and material assistance, but without this being made mandatory. This version also includes local authorities, who are, let us recall, the main actors of educational policy in the territories; It is therefore essential to involve them in such decisions. With regard to article 3, concern has been raised about the tasks of school principals, which must be defined by decree. In order to reassure the staff concerned, could you, the rapporteur, Mr Minister, reaffirm here the objectives of accompaniment and dialogue which will be at the heart of the action of these referents? Finally, we will not defend an amendment to reinstate clause 4, deleted by the Senate, but we believe that the subject of the Director's involvement in the organization of extracurricular time should be addressed at a later stage. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applauds]] With this bill, I want to believe that we will provide our principals with the necessary framework and tools to ensure that the school continues to cultivate the talents of tomorrow. So you will have understood, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and its related democrats will vote in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u139	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u140	The school is this particular space, both a sanctuary for the development of children and a large window open to the world; It is a place where the children of our country can learn, spend, think and build their citizenship. In order to guide and accompany them in this demanding project, the staff of our schools do a tremendous job, working daily for the development of the children for whom they are responsible. Here I want to thank all the educational staff on strike last week and those who demonstrated today; This quinquennium, marked by a lack of consideration and listening, will have been a source of concern for them – the words of the President of the Republic have not fixed anything. The text we are looking at, although it has allowed us to discuss the situation of school principals and principals – I know the rapporteur's commitment to these issues – is not satisfactory. The directors and directors are indeed the guiding thread guaranteeing the proper functioning of the establishments; They defend the power to act in a spirit of collegiality and responsibility. We have heard several trade unions representing the profession and we have listened to what the women and men concerned are asking for; Clearly, we have not heard the same things! Their expectations are very clear and I would like to remind them: they want an increase in discharge time, a simplification of tasks – often time-consuming –, human assistance in the management of missions and an upgrading of their profession. Finally, most people are calling for a reduction in their daily burden, in view of working conditions that have deteriorated in an increasingly tense context over the years, assigning to school the heavy task of repairing everything society struggles to correct. By increasing their ancillary tasks while eliminating assisted jobs, the Commission's bill leads to an increase in their tasks without providing them with adequate resources; We cannot therefore be satisfied with its content, first of all because, contrary to what we had decided at first reading, you have chosen to return to the establishment of a functional authority, a concept which very few directors claim. The council of teachers already allows, in the framework of an open dialogue, the decision-making necessary for the proper functioning of the school. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] Minister, the rapporteur, if the school is a human enterprise in search of the development of our children, it cannot under any circumstances become a company subject to the laws of the market and profitability. For if it is a shared observation, it is indeed that of the appetite for collegial work. There may therefore be a question of including in the law any link of subordination or hierarchy, even in disguise. In committee, several of us have asked you for clear and unambiguous wording on the place and role of directors and directors. However, the wording you have chosen is likely to distil doubts and fears in the minds of those concerned. This provision may ultimately be a source of unnecessary tension between teachers, for whom the notion of peer-to-peer relationship remains a founding principle. We call for its abolition and for the inclusion in the law of the absence of a hierarchical link between directors, directors and teachers. It's pretty simple: a subject, a verb, a complement! There is concern that directors and managers may end up carrying out additional missions related to training, coordination or inclusion, with objectives to be achieved. These areas of work, while essential, must remain the fruit of a fluid dialogue between administrative authorities, teams and families. We also ask ourselves about the index bonus as well as the allowances and bonuses: they deserve to be increased, even though the apparently established social dialogue has failed to achieve a broad consensus on these issues. The same applies to discharge times, which should be sanctified. This is one of the keys to the problem: the amount of work devoted by managers and managers to their responsibilities is not purely mathematical, because some tasks are incompressible. In addition, as we have already mentioned at first reading, the lack of replacements to support the teams remains a major problem. The question of the attractiveness of the teaching professions as a whole is always acute, at a time when too many jobs remain vacant due to the lack of candidates. In this regard, we have tabled an amendment aimed at introducing more flexibility in the conditions for the enrolment of teachers on the school principal qualification list; If we believe that it must be prior to taking up office, its absence must not be a hindrance to the realization of a project. We will always be in favour of providing material and humane assistance to personnel, as long as it takes place in practice, through budgeted and quantified means. Thus, we are also committed to ensuring that the State has the capacity, throughout the national territory, to equip the teams to function properly. Territorial inequalities must be corrected by the will of a fully committed State alongside its teachers and youth to pursue an ambitious emancipation policy. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] The upgrading of the position of school principal, which all and all call for of their wishes, cannot be satisfied by the proposals that you make to us. For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u141	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u142	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u143	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u144	In November 2019, more than 29000 school directors and principals responded to a consultation carried out by the Ministry of National Education on their working conditions – this was said earlier but it should be repeated. 89 per cent did not mention the creation of a specific status as a concrete path for improvement, and 97 per cent did not say that they needed more autonomy or wanted to make decisions without the approval of their direct supervisor. Had the Government taken into account their actual requests for human assistance in order to increase their discharge time and alleviate their tasks? How can laws be drawn up without taking into account the real problems of national education and the people working there? Through the figures cited, you see yourself that everyone is attached to the current model and that there is a need, not for new leaders, but for means to function better. The school is not a business and will never be able to function as such. On this occasion, how can we allow school directors and principals to choose their teachers? You know as well as I do that such a system will lead to injustices, with some teachers being chosen because of affinities of culture, network membership or physical appearance. Some will therefore be set aside, despite their skills and desire to work, which will only exacerbate the difficulties we face in ultramarine schools. Remember that a director does not exercise hierarchical authority over the teachers of his school. This is therefore the end of a national public service, since the role of director, and therefore the organisation of the school, varies according to criteria which are still unknown. This article went wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u145	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u146	Section 1 focuses on the main concerns we have with this bill. It reopens an old and sensitive debate about a possible hierarchical status for school principals. Of course, as drafted, it does not create a formal hierarchy between directors and teachers. However, our honourable senators have put in place a functional authority that feeds the fear that such hierarchical status will sooner or later come into play, with the risk that the director will no longer be considered a peer. Worse: The Senate has removed a clarification adopted here at first reading that the director would not have a hierarchical authority over teachers, which was likely to alleviate a little of the concerns that lie ahead of us. Directors and directors need more time, systematic human assistance, and not hierarchical authority. The results of the consultation conducted by the Government in 2019 corroborate my remarks since school principals plebiscite the pedagogical aspect to the detriment of administrative and logistical tasks: more than 80 per cent of them believe that collective monitoring of pupils, teamwork and the development of aid schemes are the core of their profession. That is why they fear being offered hierarchical status that would make them belong to an administrative body other than that of teachers. Finally, the functional authority, as provided for in this article, puts managers at risk of being isolated from their peers, to the detriment of team coherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u147	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u148	This bill strengthens the duties and autonomy of the school principal by establishing a delegation of competences from the academic authority. It was so long-awaited! At the initiative of senators, section 1 gives functional authority to school principals and principals. The text provides for the Director to organize discussions on issues relating to school life. He has a delegation of powers from the academic authority for the proper functioning of the school he leads and the fulfilment of the tasks entrusted to him. This functional authority does not confer on managers and supervisors a hierarchical relationship with other teachers in the school: they remain the peers and do not become their superiors. The aim is to complement and strengthen their autonomy in order to endorse the decisions taken collectively at the school council or the council of teachers, to implement them and to facilitate the implementation of school projects and pedagogical projects. In addition, by means of a provision added in committee, the place and work of school officials will be recognized in the law. This mention gives recognition to the more than 3,500 teachers working in a single class, often made up of several levels, in the heart of rural villages. Like the principal, they ensure the operation and organisation of the school, the good relations with the elected representatives and the parents of the pupils. Within the inter-communal educational groups, they ensure that they work in coordination with the other teachers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Redefining the duties of the principals, asserting their functional authority, recognizing those in charge of schools, so that the majority and the Government show their commitment to primary school and to those who ensure its proper functioning on a daily basis, including in the very small rural schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u149	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No 35, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u150	By this amendment, we oppose the delegation of academic authority's competences to school directors and principals and the creation of a functional authority for these teachers. First, we refuse to allow directors and directors to form part of a new chain of command in which they become "managers" of their school. The Grenelle de l'Éducation, organized by the Government, proposes, in the synthesis of its work, to create a "directorship status by giving them a decision-making and functional authority" to make it an official "to assume leadership", installed in a "management culture". This is not our conception of the public service of national education. Secondly, I recall that more than 89% of the 29,000 school directors and principals, who responded to the November 2019 consultation on their working conditions, do not mention the creation of a status as a concrete path of improvement. You wanted to know what our sources were? There they are! These data are corroborated by the unions. Those who doubted it could have visited them in front of the National Assembly at 1300 hours, as they were invited to attend. On the other hand, the directors requested human assistance, more time for discharge and a reduction in their duties, as much as the Government and the presidential majority refused to grant them. Finally, the powers delegated to directors and directors are not mentioned in this article. Nor are the contours of this functional authority defined. How can we agree to insert such vague terms into the education code? The school cannot function on the model of the company, with the establishment of managers in each institution. There is currently a superior officer, the inspector of national education, and a collegial operation within each school. We are committed to this model, like the vast majority of teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u152	I will obviously be against this amendment, which is in line with the logic of your motion to reject, Mr Larive, and which tends to delete an article amending the legal framework for the exercise of the role of school principal. We too are committed to collegiality in primary schools. This text, let us repeat, does not alter in any way the organisation of the council of teachers and school councils – they are inscribed in the code of education and we do not touch it. On the other hand, Article 1 explicitly recognizes the duties of principals, who are currently recognized only implicitly: Article L. 411-1 of the Education Code refers only to the "exercise of specific functions" by principals. It's just as blurry, to take your word back. Contrary to what you say, Mr Larive, the directors ask for some autonomy, not for themselves, but for their teaching team. For the success of their students, they want to have the means to pilot and implement the projects of their school, decided collectively within the council of teachers. They also want more autonomy in order to be able to make decisions more quickly, especially with regard to safety, instead of having to call their inspector and ask him to sign a particular document, the paperwork causing a loss of energy and time. This text will put an end to a kind of infantilization that has been suffered by school principals for several decades. Let's go back to your sources, Mr. Larive. When you quote the 89% rate, you omit to say that the department's survey posed a very open question to principals. They were asked to express themselves spontaneously on possible avenues for improvement. Some 11 per cent of them spontaneously applied for hierarchical status, whereas the question was not directly asked of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u153	What about the others? 100 minus 11, that's 89!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u154	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Many school principals and teachers were outside the National Assembly at 1300 hours, you say. For my part, I would like to pay tribute to those who are present in this House and who also represent their union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u156	Many arguments have already been exchanged regarding this essential section of the bill. First of all, I will make a general comment, in line with the comments made by Mr Bournazel. Our discussions must be based on the clear goals we have for primary school as well as for the whole school system: raising the general level and reducing social inequalities. Our proposals for principals are part of this global will. Whether in the opposition or in the majority, no one should try anyone to pursue objectives other than those they display. Some spoke of deregulation, neoliberal vision, etc. All this is false and does not correspond to anything. Several speakers responded that, more than any other government, it had increased the national education budget and strengthened priority education networks. If your accusations were well-founded, we would not have done that or started the education Grenelle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u157	Unbelievable! What are we not obliged to hear?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u158	[[Rites and exclamations on SOC and GDR benches]] Our methods of achieving the result may not be right for you, but when you suggest that we pursue objectives other than those we display, you enter into a logic that weakens democracy. Why always postulate the bad faith of the interlocutor? I am not postulating any bad faith on your part, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. I fully credit you for really pursuing the objectives you have set out, for really wanting to fight against social inequalities. I think you're quite convinced. On the other hand, I do not agree with you on the way. By hearing your comments, I find that you are defending a very conservative position: you want the status quo, especially not to change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u159	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u160	We want more resources and more landfills!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u161	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u162	After all, we can discuss this, knowing that I am convinced of your willingness to have a strong public service of national education. For your part, do not doubt our willingness to strengthen the public service of national education, by strengthening school principals and principals. You have the right to think that our path is not the right one, but know that our goal is very clear and visible: to strengthen the public service of national education, which will raise the general level and combat social inequalities, giving more strength to school directors. As the rapporteur has just pointed out, this is tantamount to strengthening the teams. We aim at the exact opposite of the corporalization feared by some: giving more power to the field, the principal and the principal of the school embodying the team on a daily basis. The concept of functional authority is pragmatic in that it allows delegations of competence from the inspectors of national education who, note, are very demanding of this evolution, far from any vertical vision and idea of conquest of power by one or the other, because the subject is not that one. It's about having an effective vision, as close as possible to the ground. As a result of this development, national education inspectors will be able to devote more time to support, in support of the teams, especially in terms of teaching. As the rapporteur pointed out, Article 1e r will reduce bureaucracy: the director or director will be able to make daily decisions – for school leavers, for example – without necessarily having to fill out a paper for the inspector of national education. As essential as functional authority, delegation of competences is pragmatic and is part of a logic of trust in the actors. Let us trust the interlocutors – by crediting them with good faith – and the school principals. As the cornerstone of this bill, section 1 is a very important development, we do not say otherwise. Its provisions are also very pragmatic, and do not upset what works in primary school in France. On the other hand, the adoption of this text will make it possible to unblock some of the points that emerge from the survey carried out by the Ministry, in which the principals complain above all about the administrative overload and the difficulties of everyday life. We have addressed this in part through the measures I have listed earlier. The aim here is to respond to this through the functional authority of the principals and the delegation of competences of the academic authority to these teachers. Let me conclude by stressing, as I did during the presentation of the text, that, in such circumstances, international comparison is far from unnecessary. If our ideas were so absurd that you claimed it, we should also consider as such the way in which certain countries operate. However, there are societies that apply a logic of teamwork, accountability and autonomy in primary school and are doing well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u163	We could talk about Sweden, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u164	Let's open our windows, learn to evolve rather than camp on conservative positions – which are obviously the easiest to defend – and think about how to modernize our primary school, while keeping what it has excellent. I had the opportunity to remind you of this – and from this point of view, I register falsely against the catastrophic picture made by MP Minot, even if he is no longer present: no, the French primary school does not deteriorate. On the contrary, it is strengthening. I will not go back to the measures I have already outlined concerning basic knowledge, the logic of continuing training, the plans for the teaching of French and mathematics, or the evaluations that are taking place at this very moment: all this shows that we are concentrating our resources on what enables students to succeed. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] Let us not cultivate pessimism in order to foster political arguments. On the contrary, let us be optimistic and constructive. Let us also try to be as united as possible, for it is only if society is united around it that the school can function. Let's create the conditions for a primary school that works best. This will involve the application of a logic of trust, accountability and decision-making as close as possible to the ground. These decisions, however, can be made by school principals, because they work with and listen to their teams on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u165	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u166	It is true, minister, that we absolutely do not share your vision of school, or even of society. Before transforming anything – to be "progressive," as you say – it seems to me that you should strengthen the institution that you are in charge of, because it is completely untying, so much so that no one wants to come to it. Whatever you say, and despite the use – which I find, for my part, somewhat hypocritical – of the terms "revalorization" and "recognition", article 1 profoundly alters the function of school principal, when no one asks for it. The principals do not ask to become the delegates of competences of the academic authority! What skills are they, by the way? Those of the Academy Inspector (IA), of the Academic Director of National Education Services (DASEN), or of the Rector? All this is very blurry! What do the principals ask for? Simply having a decision-making power – with the support, depending on the urgency, of the school board or the council of teachers – on certain procedures that are currently the responsibility of the NIS or DASEN. These procedures would be very narrowly circumscribed, since they would be limited to those which facilitate the work of the school and its proper functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u167	That's what's planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u168	No! Having decision-making power over certain procedures is not the same as being delegated to the academic authority...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u169	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u170	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] ...– or you have to go back to school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u171	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u172	Moreover, when the delegation of the academic authority is accompanied by the establishment of a functional authority, forgive me, but we have the right to doubt! And since you state, in your explanatory statement, that the school principal will not become a hierarchical official, why not include him in the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u173	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u174	[[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In fact, it's a whole jargon that you use to break the status of school teacher and make him a little leader, which is indeed representative of the way you design organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u175	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u176	I will not waste time responding to the conservatism trial that the minister is doing to us, but I will focus on the facts, actions and words surrounding the discussion of this bill. In the synthesis of the workshops of the Grenelle de l'Éducation, the terms used mark the choices, or even turns, that are made. Here I will take up the words already mentioned by my colleagues: the desire to establish a director's status "giving decision-making and functional authority", to encourage public servants to exercise a "leadership... assumed" and to establish a culture of "management". Admit, however, that these are not words associated with the status of civil servant, an emancipatory school or a public service,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u177	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u178	... but rather terms referring to a liberal ideology or a management culture inspired by private enterprise. [[Ms Muriel Ressiguier and Mr Michel Larive applaud]] And if there were only words! In my view, the speech already takes note. But in addition to our discussions and the debates surrounding this bill, the President of the Republic made announcements in Marseilles. While national education, all public services and the population in this city are calling for autonomy, they do not ask to be able to decide everything. Autonomy is not a liberal concept, but a progressive concept through which the actors concerned must be given all the means, tools and the course necessary to assume and carry out their missions, including in a collegial manner. The meaning of this word, I know, has been completely diverted by the law of 10 August 2007 supposed to advance the autonomy of universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u179	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u180	[[Ms Muriel Ressiguier and Mr Michel Larive applaud again]] If we want to establish parallels, let us look at the results of the application of this law! They obviously lead me to vote in favour of the deletion amendment advocated by Mr Larive, because this autonomy is neglect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u181	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u182	[[Smile on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We're finally going to hear some sensible words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u183	Mr. Minister mentioned Mr. Minot's intervention. We really believe that everything is not going to the best of the worlds for school. On the other hand, my colleague has made it clear that we will vote in favour of this bill. We believe that it is in the right direction, as it helps to clarify the legal framework applicable to principals. I regret, however, that this text appears to be very different from the version originally proposed by Mrs Rilhac, which we adopted at first reading. With the current editorial, we remain in the middle of the ford. But probably many directors will be reassured. The adoption of this bill should, it is to be hoped, create new vocations for the office of school principal. Article L. 411-1 of the Education Code states that "a director shall ensure the proper functioning of each school". Since the committee has adopted an amendment to also mention school officials, this amendment is intended to adopt the following wording: "a school principal or school principal shall ensure the proper functioning of each school [....]. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u185	As you said, this is an editorial amendment. It seems to me that the version adopted in committee, according to which "a principal or school officer ensures the proper running of each school", is sufficient and is in line with your request, which is therefore satisfied. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u186	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 24 and 45. I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u187	A similar amendment has already been discussed in committee. I thank the rapporteur for having made it clear in her report that "after an amendment by Mr Frédéric Reiss, paragraph 2 was finally intended to include in the provisions of Article L. 411-1 primary schools, which include nursery and elementary schools". This amendment is not intended to go back to the spirit of the wording that has been adopted, but, as Mrs Descamps has tried to demonstrate in committee – and I do not succeed in doing so this time – we believe that it is important, for the sake of consistency, to mention schools in the same order as in the following paragraphs and the other articles of the text, and therefore to refer to school principals as "primary, elementary or primary".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u188	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u189	I have indeed tried to defend this amendment in committee. I shall therefore simply make it clear, in open session, that it is identical to that of Mr Reiss. This wording would indeed be much more coherent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u190	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u191	You have done well to turn around, because it is true that the wording you propose is more logical. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u192	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 2, 3, 30, 36 and 4, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 3, 30 and 36 are identical. On Amendments Nos 2 and 4, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u193	It is intended to delete the sentence that the principal has functional authority. We really do not understand your stubbornness on this issue. I understand that we are conducting a dialogue of the deaf and that we will not be able to make ourselves heard, but it is only a matter of developing a terminology that a majority of the people concerned explain to you that it does not satisfy them, because it instills doubt. We really don't understand why you're trying to camp on your position. We feel that, considering that the current functioning is ineffective, you are seeking to modify it in your own way. I regret it, because it is harmful. Nevertheless, 80% of teachers consider functional authority not to be an essential element. Why, then, make it a blocking point? It's incomprehensible. We will have the opportunity to come back to it several times, but I must say that I am very surprised at this position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u194	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u195	The issue of the supervisor's hierarchical authority over teachers is a key point in this text. In any case, it leads the discussions, not only here, but also outside the House. Following on from my colleague Michèle Victory and after pointing out this in committee, I would like to express the misunderstanding of this provision. As you know, incomprehension creates doubt as to the objectives displayed. We therefore propose to include in the marble of the law the absence of any hierarchical authority of the school principal over teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u196	I call Mrs Typhanie Degois to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u197	It aims to alleviate the fears of teachers by clearly stating that the principal does not exercise hierarchical authority over the teachers of his school. Madam rapporteur, what details can you give to the teachers who are listening to us, in order to reassure them on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u198	On the identical amendments Nos 3, 30 and 36, I have received a request for a public vote from the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u199	I share the misunderstanding of my colleagues – Mrs Tolmont and Mrs Victory, but also Mrs Faucillon, who spoke during the general discussion. If words have meaning, use them to clarify things. The amendment, identical to the previous amendment, seeks to clarify that the director does not exercise hierarchical authority over the teachers of his school. You ensure that the bill is not intended to establish such a hierarchy. If that is the case, why not write it in the law, for the sake of clarification? Perhaps because your words, in fact, do not reflect what you are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u200	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u201	This withdrawal amendment constitutes a final attempt to make it clear in the text that the functional authority as provided for in paragraph 6 does not entail the establishment of a hierarchical link. The current wording is all the more surprising, Madam rapporteur, that, when considering the bill at first reading, you agreed to include such a clarification. This change of position is truly regrettable. We are therefore trying one last time to ensure that everyone is informed and that the position adopted is appropriate for a majority of the people concerned by this text. It is not very difficult: as my amendment suggests, it is enough for a subject, a verb and a complement, and everything is said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u202	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u203	I will make a comprehensive response to amendments that either simply delete the sentence on functional authority or supplement it or replace it with the sentence: "It does not exercise hierarchical authority over teachers in its school. » Today, I am convinced that the wording proposed by the Senate is the correct one. At first reading, it was decided to introduce a delegation of powers. The Senate deleted the negative sentence: "It does not exercise hierarchical authority over the teachers of its school. He replaced it with: "It has a functional authority to enable the school to function properly and to carry out the tasks entrusted to it". The functional authority shall supervise the delegation of powers. Authority is not a bad word. A person who is responsible is authoritative because he or she is a reference, because he or she is competent, because he or she makes the decisions. Yes, the school principal alone assumes certain responsibilities within the school. As Mr.Minot pointed out in the general discussion, honourable senators have made it clear that functional authority cannot be confused with hierarchical authority. It's not the same. The functional authority makes it possible to affirm that the delegation of powers cannot be confused with any delegation of missions tomorrow. This formulation makes it possible to include in the marble of the law that the directors have authority over the missions as defined in the 2014 circular. To be very clear, I will give you some examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u204	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u205	In order to create a partnership in a school for an artistic, sporting or scientific project with interventions by associations or even municipal staff, for road prevention or training in first aid gestures, for example, it is necessary today to refer it absolutely to the inspector, to whom it is necessary to affix his signature. Tomorrow, with this bill, once the teaching team has made the decision with the stakeholders, the director, with this initiative, will be able to discuss with the elected representatives or the president of the association and sign himself. He will no longer need to rewrite the project and send it, in I don't know how many copies, to the NEI – which will also have to send it back – which is a waste of time and energy. That is what the delegation of powers corresponds to. These are not new missions, we remain within the existing framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u206	Write it down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u207	I won't write it. Imagine that it is necessary to write in the law all the missions and actions of the directors on a daily basis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u208	You wrote at first reading that the director did not exercise hierarchical authority over the teachers at his school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u209	The question of delegation of powers can also be addressed from the point of view of signing authority. Another example is internships. What an infantilization when the director finds himself facing a former student, returned to his institution to perform his third internship, and that he has to say to him: "Wait a little wolf, I have to send a paper to the academic inspector who will perhaps sign it in two months! The same applies to trainees in education sciences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u210	But who do you think we are? It's gonna be okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u211	I can also talk about a crucial mission of school principals: the relationship with families. It's very important. Would it not be interesting to allow the director to give warnings to families whose children are regularly late or absent? Would it not be desirable for this to be part of his role? This would further anchor his authority within the school. Today it is not up to him to carry out this task, but, once again, to carry out the inspection. With this bill, the Director could manage the situation himself in the event of a problem. That is what the delegation of powers corresponds to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u212	We agree with all this, but that's not the point: we're talking about hierarchical authority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u213	I will also mention a fundamental mission: pedagogical guidance. For example, with regard to the organisation of the school's life, the introduction of a staggered re-entry or a second day of pre-entry are decisions which the director should be able to take himself, with of course the teaching team, but without necessarily having to call the academic inspector to obtain his signature, i.e. an authorization. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u214	Do it directly, in-house!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u215	I give a last example, very eloquent for the parents of children who have had to skip a class or for whom a cycle maintenance has been decided. Some school principals, as well as their teaching staff, would like them to apply directly once such decisions have been made, without the need once again to waste time and energy. When I say that the functional authority governs the delegation of powers, this does not imply a hierarchical authority at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u216	Let's write it down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u217	It is simply a matter of carrying out the tasks defined today in the Code of Education and in circulars which already define the framework of this profession perfectly. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You will understand, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u218	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u219	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u220	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u221	Madam rapporteur, frankly, you think we're idiots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u222	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u223	[[Caroline Fiat and Michel Larive applaud]] Who can believe that we need to discuss for eighteen hours, or even less, on the benches of the House, in order to enable the directors to carry out the tasks you have just mentioned? Don't make us think it's necessary to vote a bill for that! The Ministry wants school principals to exercise hierarchical authority. That was part of the bill even though it was not exactly what you wanted with this bill. Today, after several discussions – because everyone must be aware of the existence of these debates – you have found a form of compromise, and you finally introduce a sentence that brings nothing but a little more blurry and difficulties. That's it! [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] If we ask you to clarify things, it is not to lengthen the law but because we see clearly, with regard to the plans and reforms that you are introducing, on which side the blurry that you are introducing risks tilting the balance: towards a form of liberal autonomy, competition between institutions. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] We are not the only ones who want to be reassured. I am thinking of school principals and principals who, when they read it, perceive the doubts and vagueness of your text. We ask you to give a clarification, not because it would please us, but because this precision is essential. Without it, the text may lean on the other side and the text may be understood in a way contrary to the one you have just indicated. Without this clarification, functional authority can appear as a hierarchical authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u224	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u225	Madam rapporteur, you are making a diversion so that you do not reply on the substance. As my colleague has just said, we are not stupid. We're not children either. We have a fundamental, ideological disagreement. We have already dealt with this issue in committee, but since it is necessary, I will repeat: no, authority is not a big word. It is certainly part of the French language, and it has a meaning. If I have authority, I decide. If I can decide but my colleagues cannot, then, implicitly but effectively, I also exercise hierarchical authority. I would prefer that we say things frankly, that we debate the substance of our ideological differences regarding the role of the school and the orientation that must be its own. As we have seen with your high school or higher education and research reforms, you are consistent – something you cannot be blamed for – but this coherence is not ours. We're fighting it because we think what you're putting in place is dangerous. We all ask you to clarify because we fear that you will also introduce this logic into the elementary school. If this is not the case, say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u226	We keep saying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u227	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Write it down, it'll be easier. If you don't, you're not being honest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u228	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u229	After hearing the rapporteur's question, I wonder what the role of the NSI is and what your intentions are about it. In my department, when school principals talk to their INS about activities they want to launch, it happens quickly and carelessly. I therefore feel a little bit that the role of the NET is changing, from the point of view of its relations with its interlocutors and of the decision-making chain. I don't know what they think about it and how it's going in general, but I think it's a little strange.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u230	Mrs Catherine Daufès-Roux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u231	[["You're a Member of Parliament! » on several benches]] I would like to address the opposition colleagues. I'm a school principal... I was a school principal – I am today a Member of Parliament, temporarily. I'd like to share a personal memory. In 1987, a bill providing for the creation of the Master Director status had been introduced because there was no school principal at the time. In the 1960s and 1970s, teachers became principals at the end of their careers, that's how it was. But in the 1980s, they no longer wanted to do so, preferring, for financial reasons, to ask for a replacement post in either ZIL – a localized intervention zone – or in a brigade, a more remunerative post if travel allowances are taken into account. [["Ah! » on the SOC benches]] In view of this aberration, the creation of the status of master director was therefore proposed in 1987. The unions that you support then all shouted their opposition to such a project and their rejection of the hierarchy. We lost more than thirty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u232	There you go! Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u233	I am not sure that with such a reference you really helped the rapporteur and the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u234	[[Exclaims on several SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Today the Government has the courage to upgrade this function, to give autonomy to the principal of school I wish to give you my experience as principal of school. In my view, this is a step forward. Fear of hierarchy is only a fantasy that hinders evolution. In secondary schools, colleges and high schools, there is a hierarchy. However, it is not a bagne and this system does not create any dysfunction. This bill does not provide for the creation of a hierarchy in schools, but for the granting of autonomy to school principals and their upgrading. I thank the Government for its support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u235	I put Amendment No. 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u236	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 61 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 13 Against 48
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u237	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 3, 30 and 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u238	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 61 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 12 Against 48
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u239	I put Amendment No. 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u240	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 14 Against 48
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u241	Amendment No 66 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u242	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 2. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u243	I want to thank the minister who said that he accepted the contradiction and therefore the opposition's proposals. No, we're not conservative! You have a liberal vision and the right, which has understood it well, proposes to vote in favour of the text. Our vision is different. If you wish, we can propose another text that would reflect the wishes of the principals and school principals, i.e. those concerned. In particular, it would provide for administrative and effective assistance, without pinging into the staff of the local authorities but by recruiting from within the national education system. You see, that's another approach. I have just said that, Mr Minister, you have my respect, but I would like to say the same about the rapporteur. We felt a form of sufficiency and condescending towards us. There is no need for infantilization: we know very well what this is about with this bill. I would add, Mrs Daufès-Roux, that it is not necessary to have been school principal to discuss this text. If we did not perform this function, that does not disqualify us. We are all representatives of the nation and sitting on those benches as such. I therefore only ask that our exchanges be based on respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u244	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u245	This article sets out the legal framework for the appointment, promotion, training and working conditions of school principals. If the health crisis has delayed consideration of this text by interrupting the parliamentary shuttle, it will nevertheless have revealed the need to strengthen the attractiveness of this function. In this regard, the December 2019 consultation had already highlighted the desire for greater involvement of school principals, in particular through their willingness to be decision-makers on the use of 108 annual hours devoted to complementary teaching activities, with 87% of those responding to this survey speaking in this direction. It is therefore a question of accompanying the teaching pilot role of school principals, and the text provides a legislative basis for this. The conditions of advancement and appointment were clarified as successive readings were made, with the Senate rapporteur, Julien Bargeton, noting in particular that there was no adjustment of any quota measures to the advancement of school principals. Teachers will now receive training to be on the aptitude list, and specific training is provided on the basis of a dialogue with the Academy Inspection. The discharge system has also evolved along the shuttle. The mechanism as a result of the Committee's work is now balanced. Dialogue and compromise will undoubtedly allow the two chambers to reach agreement on this text, as well as the school to appropriate this important and useful reform of the administration of its management. It is thanks to this method that our social contract will be strengthened rather than by publicity effects and confrontations which, too often, have in the past rhythmized the reforms of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u246	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u247	Article 2 of this bill aims to recognize and value the specific tasks of school principals. This is obviously a good thing because the function attracts less and less. And the covid crisis didn't fix anything. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a true tribute to all the school principals in my constituency, whether in Béziers or in the surrounding villages, both in the public and in the private sector. All the people I met, without exception, impressed me, as they appeared to me respectful, invested and conscientious. I will mention in particular the tremendous work done by the director of the Tamaris school, burned down in November 2019, who worked tirelessly with his teams, architects and municipal services to raise the bet of a new school completely rebuilt and inaugurated since this school year: low hat! For these school principals, we can only welcome the fact that the bill has been improved: I will mention, for example, the discharge determined according to the specifics of the school and not only according to the number of classes, which will undoubtedly be more pragmatic. On the other hand, and with the same logic, it is obviously regrettable that, despite the announcements by Emmanuel Macron on September 3, it is still not allowed for school principals to choose the teaching team they want to be around. I had tabled an amendment to this effect to allow them, on an experimental basis, to choose the teachers who work in their schools, knowing that most of the directors who work in difficult neighbourhoods, i.e. in REPs or REPs +, wish to do so because this would allow the teaching teams to combine, over time, around a project adopted by all, which would lead to more efficiency in areas in need of it. It is a pity that my amendment was deemed inadmissible: it could have saved time for all of us, and especially for our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u248	We come to the amendments. Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u249	By this amendment, we are opposed to the development of school management provided for in this article. Indeed, it adds new missions to school directors and principals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u250	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u251	...e.g. training and coordination, which are currently being carried out by other national education staff. While it is true that some directors or directors wish to coordinate arrangements in addition to their management responsibilities, it is not currently mandatory, and we fear, like teachers' unions, that your objective is in fact to abolish positions among staff dedicated solely to this coordination task, such as, for example, the coordinators of priority education networks or district pedagogical advisers, their tasks being now assigned to school directors and principals. Yet only a tiny minority of them are asking for it. And you are still not responding to what they want and have been repeated to you both in committee and in the Chamber: additional time and additional administrative resources. I would also like to remind you that we want these human resources to be exclusively statutory and staffed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u253	Your amendment, Mrs Ressiguier, proposes to delete almost all of Article 2. However, sub-paragraphs 2 to 12 are necessary as they set the conditions for the recruitment, training and performance of the duties of principals. I would also point out that we have deleted from Article 1e r a paragraph of Article L. 411-1 of the Education Code in order to reintroduce here the new Article L. 411-2. Let me point out to you the extent of what you would delete: the recognition of leadership employment, long awaited by a large majority of school directors and principals; the inclusion of landfills in the law while they may otherwise be deleted by a simple circular; a dedicated training offer although the academic training plan does not currently provide for any training for these directors; the possibility for an educational team to benefit from training specific to its needs, although possibly in relation to the specific needs of the students, with an innovative pedagogical project – regional languages for example – or with a territorial project – I am thinking of the territories that can benefit from activities such as skiing, sailing, surfing, Basque pelota. You want to delete all these specific trainings... Teachers should appreciate it! In addition, you would also remove by this amendment the acceleration of careers for school principals when they do not now have value for their daily career commitment. This article is also intended to change this point, and you object... The principals and principals will appreciate it! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u256	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u257	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u258	Training for principals already exists. Beyond everything you say, Madam rapporteur, there is no agreement on the substance, that is, on what you want to do and on the direction in which you want to go. You can always add words to words,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u259	It's not words, it's the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u260	... chaining interventions that don't really make sense, it doesn't change anything on the bottom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u261	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u262	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u263	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u264	The principals and principals of schools are employed as directors but are part of the faculty of the schools. It should therefore be pointed out that the hierarchical authority over teachers in the first level of the school in which they hold the position of director or director is exercised by the inspector of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u265	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u266	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] I would like to thank you, Mr Causse, for giving me the opportunity to return to the hierarchical chain in force today in the national education system, reminding me first of all that nothing in this text changes it. The inspector of national education, you are right to point out, is the direct superior of the teachers and hence of the principals of the school, and he will remain so after the adoption of this bill. It will always be he who will continue to evaluate teachers and school principals. If it is nowhere in the education code that an academic inspector is the superior of the teachers, neither in primary nor in secondary school, nor the academic director is the superior of the inspector – and I could thus go up the whole chain of command to you, minister – it shows to my mind that it is not necessary to confirm such evidence legislatively. For this reason, it is not mentioned in Article 1 that the principal does not exercise hierarchical authority, since this request is implicitly satisfied. And then I would like to remind you that we are writing here the law and not the organization chart of national education. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u268	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u269	Is the amendment retained, my dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u270	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u271	Amendment No 65 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u272	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u273	The aim of this clarification amendment is to remind the school principal to be free to choose the school in which he or she will be appointed, as is currently the case. I therefore propose to clarify in paragraph 4 that the principal is appointed "after giving his consent", the remainder of the paragraph remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u275	Public service law, Ms. Ménard, applies not only to school principals but also obviously to all teachers. It does not seem useful to me to write in the law what does not change. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u276	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u277	Paragraph 4 introduces into the legislative part of the Education Code clarifications as to the conditions for enrolment on the school principal qualification list, although these provisions may very well remain in the regulatory part. That is why I propose in this amendment to delete the second sentence of paragraph 4, which would allow you, Mr.Minister, to provide any useful clarification by regulation. I would point out that I had already tabled an amendment at first reading in order to keep the possibility of a single direction for the schools in the basement – there are already a number of them and they are functioning – and for private schools under contract with the state. Minister, you were then silent on the matter; Madam rapporteur, you told me in committee that you understood the problem and that we would have this debate in the House. Contracted private education has, since 2017, unified the status of the head of school, and the text would be a step backwards in this process, leading to new distinctions that would be even more difficult to change at a later stage. I believe that the idea of implementing common directions at the first and second levels is innovative and goes in the direction of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u279	You are raising an important question, Mr Reiss, but, as I said in committee, it seems to me to be a matter of regulation, and I would prefer to let the minister respond in substance. As your amendment seems to me to be an appeal amendment seeking clarification from the Government, I would ask you to withdraw it afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u281	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u282	Mr. Reiss? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u283	I do not withdraw this amendment and, Mr Minister, I would still have wanted some explanations, not just me, but also the private school under contract. We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u284	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u285	You will understand, Mr President, that I am once again trying to help ensure that the debates can be conducted in a synthetic way and, since I am in real agreement with the rapporteur's comments, that is why I am expressing the same opinion. Of course, this was not a lack of respect for your argument, but the rapporteur has just explained that the risk is that the legislative amendment you are proposing will affect the public sector. I can assure you orally that we can provide all the necessary clarifications on private education by regulation. If we can understand the spirit of your amendment, I can confirm to you that, from a legal point of view, all those who must be reassured by regulation can be reassured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u286	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u287	It happens, even if it is rare, that teachers are, from their first year of practice, assigned to a leadership position, for lack of other candidates. The aim of this amendment is to allow these young people who have served as directors for one year to apply for their inclusion on the aptitude list after, I say, having completed the required training, instead of having to wait three years like the other teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u288	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u289	Mrs Descamps, I understand the meaning of your amendment because it is true – Mrs Victory has mentioned it in particular – that we are facing a shortage of school principals, since more than 4000 positions are not filled every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u290	To grant teachers and teachers in schools who have served for one year as principal access to the aptitude list would be to create a two-speed regime. I prefer to improve the working conditions of school principals in order to attract more candidates and to ensure that the situation you are referring to is brought to an end. I invite you to withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u292	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u293	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u294	I am not going to withdraw my amendment: it would give recognition to young teachers who have served as school principal for a year. It would be possible for them to apply for inclusion on the aptitude list; If they don't prove themselves, they won't be registered. In the current state, even if they have proved themselves, they are told in a way: "Thank you for having served as director for a year; Now you're going to have to wait two years to be on the aptitude list." It's really a shame for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u295	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u296	We are making the same observation as Mrs Descamps – that of a difficulty related to the lack of candidates for director positions – and we are also proposing solutions. We would like more flexibility with regard to the inclusion of teachers on the aptitude list. Thus, if it is obviously necessary to intervene prior to taking up the post, training as school principal should not be a condition for inclusion on the aptitude list. This would make it easier for teachers to become school principals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u298	Your amendment relaxes the provisions contained in the bill: training would no longer be a prerequisite for inclusion on the aptitude list, but it should still be followed before taking up the position, which is currently the case. As I have already indicated to Mrs Descamps, we want to upgrade the profession of school principal so that he becomes attractive again. I am not in favour of this amendment, which weakens the scope of the text. We demand that training be provided to become a school principal; It's a commitment. It will be of quality, and probably longer than what is proposed today. Some spoke of certification training. It seems to me that we have found the right balance between a certification training that would be very binding – especially as it appeared in the bill by applying to a certain category of director – and mandatory prior training. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u299	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u300	We wish to supplement paragraph 4 by reintroducing the idea of certifying training for school principals who receive a total discharge of education – this is therefore aimed at a certain category of principals. It seems to us that the text, as amended and voted by the Senate, contained an interesting step forward that would increase the credibility of the role of school principal in schools of a certain size, particularly those of more than thirteen classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u302	I have just spoken on this subject: it does not seem to me desirable to create categories within school principals. The bill is supposed to be addressed to all principals, from the single class – we talked about it from article 1 with the introduction of the school officer – to the very large schools. Making a distinction in the law really doesn't seem useful. Training is required; It's written. As I have indicated, it seems to me that this paragraph allows a proper balance between a training which would be certifying and that which already exists. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u304	The idea is interesting. It is all the more worth taking into account that, in general, in the context of the Grenelle de l'Éducation, certification of skills can go hand in hand with the valorisation of continuing training and the ability of staff to evolve throughout their lives by "creating, if I dare say, competences through certification". Your idea is therefore entirely admissible. Simply put, the rapporteur said in part: I do not think that is a matter of law. This would be far too rigid, while the situations are very different. On the other hand, work will follow the law – as we have said abundantly, the law is a milestone; There have been things before, there will be more after. In this context and in the continuity of this law, it would be normal to deepen your idea, not in a global and undifferentiated way, but so as to take into account the realities on the ground. For this reason, the opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u305	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u306	Minister, I thank you very much for your very specific and very engaging remarks – that is how I receive them. You consider the proposal to be of interest and a path that deserves to be explored. I hear what you're saying; I consider that you have actually made a number of commitments for what will happen after the law is passed. Because we hear carefully what you are saying and because the LR Group is constructive, given your comments, I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u307	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u308	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u309	The aim is to draw attention to the teachers of the schools acting as principal. My amendment aims to ensure that these teachers – who serve for one year as school principal because the position is vacant and that national education asks them to do so – are included on the aptitude list. This is the same subject as that raised by my colleague Béatrice Descamps. I would also like to raise another subject: the year following the intervention of a "functioning", or even two or three years later, if the position of director is reopened and a teacher so requests, the teacher can be appointed to the management of the school by passing the "functioning". In our schools, we all know situations like this. If they are of course part of the modalities of movements in national education, this creates difficulties in the school and undermines the experience gained over the years as "functioning". This subject is not regulated by law as such. It requires treatment to recognize the work of "functioning". The latter allow schools to function in years when, alas, no one wants to take the lead – these cases being, as we know, more and more numerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u311	Mrs Brugnera, your amendment concerns the "functioning", the situation of which has been regularly referred to by Mrs Descamps. However, it poses a legal problem as it would create unequal access to the aptitude list. You want to grant the "functioning" an automatic entry on the aptitude list; In addition, it would be sufficient to have served for one year to become a director on a priority basis. This is no longer a matter of compulsory training, maintenance or file preparation. However, there are directors and directors who have invested themselves in order to be placed on the aptitude list. Because it creates inequality, I ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u313	My answer will be in the same spirit as the previous one. Of course, the problem you're pointing at is real, but by including in the law what you're proposing, the risk would be to pass on the other side of the horse, if you allow me to express it. The automaticity thus created would in turn have disadvantages. The cases you report represent a form of injustice; Ending it is a goal to be achieved. Many "functioning" prove their commitment and create a good precedent; Many people would like to be able to devote them to their duties because of what they have demonstrated. At the regulatory level, we must follow your idea by giving it flexibility, which goes through a little bit of our debates and characterizes the spirit of the bill – this is consistent with some of the arguments we have heard today. To be as close as possible to the realities, we must let the actors on the ground – in this case, no doubt the inspector of national education – appreciate concrete situations in order not to commit injustice in the name of a blind rule. We need to create a relaxation to address the problem you pose. In this respect, as I have already mentioned, you will be able to exercise your right of continuation. For all these reasons, the opinion will be unfavourable, since I do not wish to amend the law in the sense of your amendment. On the other hand, I will gladly follow his direction at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u314	Amendment No 67 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u315	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u316	The purpose of this amendment is to enable teachers acting as principals of schools who have taken training in the course of the school year to become principal and who are on the aptitude list to be given priority in order to obtain, the following year, the direction of the school where they have already practised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u318	The minister has just spoken on the subject. As with Mrs Brugnera's amendment, this is a request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u320	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u321	Mrs Descamps, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u322	I'm taking it off, though it's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u323	I call Mr Henriet to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u324	The aim of this amendment is to adjust the training proposals to the actual needs of the teaching teams and to better involve all actors in defining their training paths. Indeed, the proposal for a law tends to base the training initiative solely on principals and to offer the council of teachers only an advisory role. Conversely, the wording proposed by this amendment involves all the actors while giving the school principal a decisive role in training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u326	The amendment seems to me to be satisfactory: teachers in schools, like teachers, who have already justified three years of exercise, will remain in school. We have made this clear in the text which was amended in committee to improve drafting. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u327	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u328	We wish to supplement paragraph 6 to clarify that the training activities proposed by the school principal to the inspector of national education take into account the directions of national policy, which the senatorial majority had included in the bill on the proposal of Senator Max Brisson.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u329	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u330	You wish to reinstate the requirement that the Director follow the guidelines of the national policy in his training proposals. The training proposals are in any case validated by the supervisor of the national education inspector. It is of course desirable that they should be in line with national education policy. However, one could fall into another direction that has sometimes been denounced by teachers: that they should only be offered training to implement the reforms of the ministry. However, teachers may need to train themselves in more general or timeless skills, which are not directly related to the policy of the moment, such as deepening in a subject or innovation. For these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u331	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u332	This appeal amendment deals with the specificities to be taken into account in the allocation of management discharges. As a result of developments, in particular the merger of kindergartens and elementary schools leading to the establishment of primary schools, some schools are spread over several sites, sometimes far away. We have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u334	I understand your concern. Specificities may be territorial, in rural areas, in the mountains or in priority education networks. They may be related to the buildings, depending on the functionality of the premises or the location of the Director's office. There are many reasons. If we begin to cite examples for each specificity, we risk embarking on an endless inventory. I prefer the legislative provision to remain general, leaving it to the decree or circular to clarify these criteria. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u335	I'm taking it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u336	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u337	The purpose of this amendment is to abolish training missions for directors and directors. We consider that they do not have specific skills in this field, but the profession of trainer requires expertise, which is acquired through training validated by a certificate. This training has been severely weakened in recent years. There is no link between school management and training: training pupils is a profession in its own right, training teachers is as well. As we have been saying this afternoon since the beginning of the discussion of this text, while the directors are calling for a reduction in their duties, with Article 2, you are imposing additional tasks on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u339	Teachers, especially school principals, are already required to be trainers, particularly among trainees. When the teacher trainer is not present, which is normal because he works in different schools, the principal supports and advises the teachers of the trainee schools. Introducing the training mission as one of the criteria for obtaining additional discharges is an explicit recognition of tasks that are performed implicitly. These tasks already exist, it is not at all a question of replacing the master trainers who have received specific training, but the principals welcome the master trainees to their school and take care of them daily. I ask for withdrawal, if not unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u340	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u341	I shall return for a moment to my amendment No 59. It was very different from Amendment No 27 tabled by Mrs Brugnera, and I proposed that teachers acting as school principal on the aptitude list during the school year – who would have taken the training to become director – should be given priority in order to get the direction of their school the following year. Amendment No 46 proposes that dialogue be established at the level of district inspection. Given the regular working relationship between the district inspector and the school principal, it is logical that the dialogue should be at this level and then validated by the academic inspection – the word "academic" should be added, which was forgotten at the end of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u343	I understand this desire for clarification, but I do not think it is up to the law to fix these details. It is important that there is a dialogue between the inspector and the school principal, without specifying whether the inspector is an academic or a circuit inspector. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u344	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u345	I associate our colleague Sylvie Charière with this amendment, which aims to regulate and legally secure a practice existing in Paris and other cities in France. In 1983, Jacques Chirac had concluded an agreement with national education to allow a total discharge of directors whose schools have five or more classes, by taking over part of their salary, in return for wider, negotiated responsibilities, including those relating to extracurricular time. Under no circumstances is the amendment intended to introduce any obligation. It aims to maintain the possibility for municipalities and groups of municipalities to delegate their competence in the organisation of extra-curricular time to the benefit of the principals of voluntary schools, in agreement with the academic authority, since the conditions for discharge under this contract are laid down by the Ministry of National Education, as specified in Article 2 of the draft law. This provision would have the merit of avoiding certain tensions between school principals and educational leaders in cities and would make the school principal the sole contact of parents. It would also make it possible to open up and create complementarity and flexibility between school and extracurricular time. Many of the applicant directors would be able to manage the student's overall attendance time in the school. Of course, the municipalities and groups of communes would remain at the initiative of this delegation of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u346	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u347	This provision, in a different form, was part of the original bill, which enshrined its article 4. At first reading, it was discussed at length in committee and in session. Many Members, including the Dem Group to which you belong, had opposed it for various reasons. Some saw it as the source of new expenditure and obligations for the communes, others as additional tasks for the principals. For these reasons, the Senate has deleted this clause. I have heard all these arguments, and although I remain convinced that this provision could have had a positive impact, particularly on students, I agree with the majority of parliamentarians and with the committee. Request for withdrawal, if not, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u348	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u349	The aim is to clarify that if the director does not participate in complementary teaching activities, it is necessary to ensure that his pupils are cared for by other teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u350	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u351	We found in the committee that practices differ between schools and territories. It is common sense – it is even obvious – that students in the director's class benefit from complementary educational activities in the same way as others. These activities often mix students from different classes. We will not solve this problem in the law, but as the minister has said, the decrees will make it possible to enact a national rule because it seems that this issue is not treated fairly throughout the territory. Request for withdrawal, failing which adverse notice is given.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u352	I'm taking it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u353	Amendment No 63 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u354	Amendment No 16 by Mrs Constance The Grip is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u355	Amendment No 64 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u356	Amendment No 18 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is editorial. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u357	Favourable opinion. It improves the wording of paragraph 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u358	I have before me Amendment No 49 by Mrs Béatrice Descamps.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u359	Mrs Sylvie Charière, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u360	Article 2a concerns administrative aid. This is an important article which should allow school principals to have the material and human support financed by the State, the municipalities and their groups. This is one of the principal demands of directors to improve their working conditions. We have shown pragmatism by re-integrating, by amendment in committee, the municipalities into co-participation in administrative aid for school principals. It can be seen that in order to perform these functions as effectively as possible, and although the new recognition of the specific nature of schools in the discharge system is a major step taken by the State, school principals need logistical support related to the reception, maintenance of the school, or the identification of the number of half board members. All these tasks are directly related to the management of the structure, which is the responsibility of the municipality. It is a choice of coherence, but also equity, because many municipalities are already helping schools. As such, it would not be legitimate to revert to this point. At the same time, however, for various reasons, the communities in some territories do not provide any assistance to the directors. The drafting resulting from the Commission's work refers only to the possibility for the State and the municipalities to set up this aid. Attention will have to be paid to the implementation of this proposal on the ground and to go further for schools with a large number of pupils. Indeed, while in some colleges with 400 students, the head of the school can rely on a reception and maintenance officer funded by the departmental council and on a steward, secretary and part-time nurse, the head of a school with similar staff does not have the same human resources. Of course, a school does not have the same legal status as a college, and therefore not the same administrative and pedagogical autonomy, nor the same needs. However, in order for the principal to be able to carry out the pedagogical piloting, the operation of the school, and to maintain good relations with the parents and partners of the school, he needs to be available when the school has 400 students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u361	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u362	You're right, school principals need help, especially at the administrative level. But it is not for the territorial community to take on these tasks, it is for the Ministry of National Education to recruit. I'm a member of a rural department. This is discriminatory because we will not have all the means to comply with your request. Discrimination will take place according to schools and territories. This is an example, minister, of our absolute differences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u363	We come to the amendments. I have before me six amendments, Nos 40, 6, 41, 43, 9 and 56, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 6, 41 and 43 are identical. Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u364	We wish to re-establish the article as it was written in the Senate, while at the same time specifying that the State must assign public officials or trainees of the public service in order to provide administrative assistance in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u365	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u366	As Mr. Larive said, territorial inequalities also stem from the fact that communities do not have the means to implement measures such as those proposed in this article. Mr Minister, you who have worked in the Academy of Créteil, which I know well, you know that inequalities would be greater if we were to bear the cost of this measure by the local authorities. There is no worse for the school of the Republic: inequalities are the crucible of problems. You have explained by a + b that you want a school of the Republic that offers the best for our children, it is time to restore equality. I did not follow the proceedings at first reading because I have only been a Member of Parliament for a year, but it was very clearly requested that these provisions be taken over by the State. This would be a measure of equality so that all school principals have the means to operate. Our amendment tends not to place these costs on local and regional authorities: all those in rural areas or in difficult or sensitive urban areas need equity and equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u367	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u368	It is an amendment by which we wish to reinstate the clause as it was voted in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u369	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u370	It aims to return to the drafting of the Senate, with regard to the administrative or material assistance provided to school principals. As has just been said, a multitude of local and regional authorities do not have the budgetary and financial capacity to provide staff to accompany school directors and principals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u371	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u372	That responsibility should therefore lie with the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u373	This is for the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u374	This improvement was introduced by the Senate and we believe it is legitimate to maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u375	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u376	It is written a little differently, but it goes in the same direction as the previous ones. It is desirable to include in the law the administrative and material assistance of school principals, depending on the circumstances and situations. With the current drafting, this assistance is mainly the responsibility of the municipalities or groups of communes. As some colleagues have already pointed out, this poses a major danger: there is a risk of creating a two-speed school based on the wealth of the communities involved. Rich communes will be able to help schools more than small rural communes with limited resources. Of course, the State can also make available resources, but it should above all provide administrative assistance, which the small communes will not be able to provide. The current wording therefore deserves clarification and improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u377	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u378	The purpose of this amendment is to recognise that it is up to the State to provide school principals with the means to guarantee them administrative assistance. Recognizing that this role could be shared with the municipalities, one risks creating inequality between the territories where the municipalities have the means to intervene and those where they cannot. We ask that the intervention of the municipalities be limited to the material means. Small municipalities are often those with small schools, but also those with the least means. I therefore fear that small schools will be the most penalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u379	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u380	I will vote on all the amendments, although Mrs Descamps's is slightly different from the others. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that school competence is now indeed shared between the municipalities and the State. The commune manages non-teaching staff such as the specialized territorial officers of nursery schools (ATSEM),...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u381	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u382	[[Ms Sylvie Tolmont and Mr Jean-Louis Bricout exclaimed]] ...but some of them employ, for example, school wardens. If the law states that "the State shall make available to the principals the means to guarantee the administrative and material assistance of the principals", what will happen to these guardians?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u383	There's nothing like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u384	I'm asking the question. We must be careful when drafting this article. Where the Senate has introduced an obligation for the State, our commission has returned to a faculty: the State and the communes "can" provide administrative and material assistance to school principals, within the framework of this shared competence, which has given rise to beautiful initiatives. I am fortunate to be elected in Val-d'Oise, a pilot department for a future investment programme entitled "Digital educational territories" and I can assure you that the state's investment was real and that the small communes – Vexin has very many small communes and therefore many inter-municipal educational groups (IPPs) – were delighted to benefit from this assistance. They just had to predict who a wifi connection, which a storage room.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u385	"Just"? But the whole problem is there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u386	Without state aid, they would not have been able to benefit from this project. Partnership is therefore very important. I would like us to stick to the text adopted by the committee, which is also the text we adopted at first reading. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u387	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u388	Ah, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u389	I answer you because I feel you have the desire, and I do not want to disappoint you. [[Smile on many benches]] Of course, I agree with the rapporteur's arguments, but I would like to make it a case of school, Mr Larive. We are certainly very different: you are very conservative, we are very progressive; You want the status quo no matter what, because it reassures you, we want progress for our students. Our differences are real, I gladly agree with you. This debate illustrates this: all the risks that you have just pointed out actually refer to the current situation. The Parisian school principals, with whom I spoke this morning, describe very interesting arrangements, because the commune of Paris has been rich enough for a very long time to finance them. However, as some speakers have described, the State is able to compensate for the differences between the municipalities. Thus, we do for the Val-d'Oise – an example chosen by the rapporteur – what we do not do for Paris, because Paris does it well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u390	For Créteil too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u391	I could multiply the examples. In some places of the Academy of Creteil, state resources go beyond municipal means. The current wording once again reflects pragmatism and flexibility in the service of true equality. Yes, we must move and not remain at the status quo defended by some of you; Rule 2 bis must therefore be voted on. But we must remain pragmatic: we must be able to compensate by state means for the lack of the resources of the communes, without replacing them entirely with them. Some municipalities can afford to invest; Moreover, they may want to engage in certain projects and they cannot be prevented by too uniform regulation. We are in favour of true equality, which in this case is synonymous with flexibility and pragmatism. That is the meaning of Article 2a. I am against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u392	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u393	Minister, we must not let the state go away. I had tabled an amendment which proposed to return to the spirit of the Senate's drafting: "the State shall provide school principals with the means to guarantee the administrative and material assistance of the latter." My amendment was considered inadmissible and I do not understand. I believe that it did not prevent municipalities or groups of municipalities from providing, where appropriate, additional resources. We will therefore vote in favour of the amendments re-establishing the drafting of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u394	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u395	I have the impression, minister, that you don't know our campaigns. The mayors of the small communes do everything they can for their schools,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u396	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u397	...but when we know that they sometimes don't even have the means to have an employee to maintain the lawns and do it themselves,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u398	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u399	... we understand that they cannot take on any personnel costs that are discussed here, which can be very important. Thank you for the experimentation carried out in the digital field, in Val-d'Oise and in Aisne; it proves that you are aware of the problem of territorial inequality. Town halls can't do anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u400	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u401	Well, be responsive! In our departments, which were in great need, small municipalities have benefited from digital equipment. If you have followed the file, you know that tomorrow they will face the problems of maintenance of these equipment, because the small communes cannot provide it either. This requires hiring staff and small municipalities are unable to bear the same costs. [[Sylvie Tolmont and Muriel Ressiguier applaud]] The State must be present in the school; It seems to me that it is his primary mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u402	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor. You promised me a quick intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u403	Yes, the mayors of the small communes do a lot for their schools. They're doing what they can. Today, Minister, I'm worried. What will happen to the attractiveness of management positions in these schools if inequalities increase so much in the capacity of municipalities to provide administrative support to directors? I'm really worried!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u404	Amendment No 68 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u405	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u406	This article creates one or more school directors in each department of the department of national education. Let us welcome this initiative, which provides a concrete and pragmatic response to requests made on the ground. This provision will facilitate the work of school directors and principals on a daily basis. The referent will be a dedicated interlocutor, a contact person, a peer among peers. Neither inspector nor supervisor, the referant will be an experienced colleague with whom exchanges will be facilitated because of his field profile. He will accompany the school principal to face the difficulties of everyday life, in his relations with parents, teachers and elected officials. This accompaniment is welcome. As a former school principal, I look forward to the creation of this position, which will be both a resource, a crutch, a support and a council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u407	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République en marche group and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u408	Article 3 provides that the referents must have exercised executive duties. This is not a high school management or an engineering school; That is why the amendment makes it clear that this is a school management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u409	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u410	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u411	I understand your concern for accuracy, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u412	Ah, there's a "but"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u413	... the writing of the article makes it clear that the management tasks to be carried out refer to the management of elementary, primary or kindergarten schools. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u414	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u415	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u416	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u417	I think this clarification is useful. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u418	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u419	I support Mr Reiss' amendment. Madam rapporteur, you say that is obvious; It is for you, but we are here to write the law and it is an amendment of common sense. You like to tell us regularly that the law must be clear, precise and concise. Vote on Mr Reiss' amendment; The law will then be clear and precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u420	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u421	Article 5 provides for the possibility for school principals to use electronic voting in the election of pupils' parents to the school board, after consultation and approval by the school board. This is indeed a possibility and not an obligation laid down by law. This article responds to one of the first objectives of the bill: to discharge school directors from certain missions, and thus simplify their administrative tasks as soon as possible. The organisation of these elections is, by the very admission of the school directors, very heavy and time-consuming, and comes at a time of year – a few weeks after the start of the school year – where it is more useful to devote time to welcoming students. Article 5 therefore also recognizes the importance of holding these elections. It is the fruit of our joint discussions and work, and it is a real step forward. I am also surprised that an amendment by our colleague, Michel Larive, calls for its abolition, while it will make it possible to strengthen participation in the elections. This is currently low, and 80% of parents who vote already do so by correspondence. I hear the desire to bring together the educational community during the elections, but there are plenty of opportunities – let's think of the information meetings that are organized, in each class, by the teacher in charge of it. Article 5 therefore perfectly fulfils a dual objective expected by school principals: to alleviate their administrative burden and to increase the participation of parents in the life of first-degree schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u422	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u423	[[Smile]] Since Bertrand Sorre asked me to defend him, I do! It is not acceptable to give up elections for material reasons. However, this is proposed in Article 5, which aims to replace traditional paper voting with electronic voting – a method that will exclude many parents of students. An INSEE study published in November 2019 reveals that 15% of the population did not use the Internet during the year. This situation affects 34% of those with little or no qualifications – compared to 3% of those with higher education – and 16% of the poorest households – compared to 4% of those with higher education. The study adds that 38% of users do not have basic digital skills. Moreover, according to the digital barometer published in 2019 by the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes et de la distribution de la presse (ARCEP), only 32% of the respondents do their administrative work online without difficulty. The Defender of Rights has also alerted us on several occasions: dematerialization increases inequalities and causes exclusion of users. The school must not reproduce and reinforce the inequalities that exist in society; On the contrary, it must welcome all parents of pupils, and encourage them to invest in the operation of the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u424	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u425	I will be brief, because Mr Sorre has fully explained the value of Article 5. Note, Mr. Larive, that this does not introduce an obligation: we let the directors decide according to the reality of the terrain. The organisation of student parent elections is a heavy burden for directors, and I do not think that electronic voting increases abstention. However, if a principal or school board – and I say this must be the principal and school board – consider that the student's parent population in their school is not ready or does not have the necessary means, they will not use electronic voting. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u426	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u427	[[Laughs and applause on various benches]] It is intended to add a clarification to paragraph 2, but since it has already been rejected in committee, I will not add any more blablabla!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u428	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u429	The blabla is still important, Mrs Manin, since your amendment deals with the specifics of school safety plans in the overseas regions. The subject is therefore important, and I would like to reassure you: it is already included in the PPMS and in the regulations. I therefore request the withdrawal of your amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u430	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u431	If the bill targets the difficulties of school principals – an excessive administrative burden, the management of safety and access to school, insufficient discharge time, low remuneration – we defend another option and other answers. As for the answers, the text does not bring any. How can you seriously consider that adding missions and responsibilities to principals and principals will help them do their job better? No teacher union requests the creation of a director's or director's position as presented in the text. Why take action against the opinion of the first interested parties, while the Ministry of National Education consulted them during a survey in December 2019? Why not follow the results of this investigation? Why not take up the proposals of the teachers' unions? Why do the Government and the majority continue to decide alone against all? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] The terms of the text, empty of legal meaning, reflect an ultraliberal vision of school – you are right, minister, we have a radical divergence from this point of view. The President of the Republic has described this vision of the school in Marseilles perfectly: he does not give any additional means to improve its functioning, but imposes more hierarchy. We oppose such a school modelled on the business model; instead we defend the public service of the school and the collegial and democratic functioning of the primary school. Faced with the overload of school principals and the lack of resources, the State must assume its responsibilities by increasing landfills and providing the necessary human and material aid – and not by asking the territorial community to commit itself to remedying the state's disengagement. The state has to recruit. For all these reasons, we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u432	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u433	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] The status quo of the teacher directors, as well as the lack of administrative and legal resources, are no longer in line with the increased responsibilities inherent in their role as directors. Even if the text is not perfect, and even though not all of our proposals have been adopted, we want to believe that the small step we are taking for directors today will be a big step for schools tomorrow. The Republican Group will therefore vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u434	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u435	The IDU and independent group will vote for this bill, which represents a step forward for school principals and is expected by them. However, I remain very concerned about the territorial differences that may result from the possibility for municipalities to make available resources to school principals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u436	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u437	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u438	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The bill of our colleague Cécile Rilhac, which we have just considered at second reading, was welcome: it has the merit of recognizing the tasks and functions of school directors and principals; it affirms their essential tasks and creates a functional job facilitating their realization, without hierarchies; It introduces specific training, annual compensation subsidies and larger landfills, increasing according to the size of the establishments; it puts an end to the isolation of school principals who may contact reference staff; It eases the administrative burden associated with the election of representatives of parents and clarifies the PPMS procedure, this heavy task. It was so long-awaited! For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will be very happy to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u439	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u440	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this bill, which comes from far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u441	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u442	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It was worked with the actors on the ground and defended by Cécile Rilhac, whom I thank for his commitment. The text is consistent with the action we have been taking over the past four and a half years, with Jean-Michel Blanquer and the majority, to strengthen equal opportunities. It should be noted that the Ministry of National Education has been provided with additional financial resources. The Government supports schools and teachers, and prepares for the future by doubling classrooms in priority education areas and enhanced priority education networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u443	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u444	Such a reform seems to hinder some of our colleagues, but it is to be put to the credit of the majority. As the minister recalled, it allows children in the 18th or 19th arrondissements of Paris to have the same chances of success as those in the 7th or 16th arrondissements – I speak to you as elected from the 17th. It is therefore an important reform for equal opportunities. [[Murmures on several SOC, FI and GDR benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] If we accept the criticisms of substance – that is the very nature of the debate – we do not accept the criticisms of form according to which we would lead an ultraliberal policy. Moreover, freedom is a beautiful thing: it allows the emancipation of the individual. We need freedom in our society! For you, being ultraliberal means destroying the school. On the contrary, we increase budgets and divide classes; we reform the guidance and upgrade the salaries of teachers; We support the principals by giving them the means to fulfil their role. This is progress for society. The caricature of denouncing an "ultra" policy has no reason to be. Did I charge you with being ultra-unsubstantiated, for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u445	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u446	The La République group on the move will vote with great enthusiasm for this bill, which has been defended by our persevering and dynamic colleague Cécile Rilhac. The text is the result of numerous field work, hearings and the flash mission led by Cécile Rilhac and Valérie Bazin-Malgras. We have had many discussions with the principals, but also with the teachers, who are very attentive to this bill. The consultation launched in 2019 with school principals had raised three central expectations: the need to reduce the workload, the need for human and material reinforcements, and the desire to benefit from stronger training. The bill responds precisely to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u447	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u448	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] While some members of the opposition play on confusion and fear, school principals and teachers know that this text gives them recognition and strengthens their power to act, while maintaining collective and team work in the school. It is for them and for them, to whom the parents entrust their children every day, that we will vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u449	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u450	Two years after Mrs. Christine Renon's death, rather than providing answers and the necessary means to overcrowded and worried school directors and principals, you are organizing, with this bill, a forceful passage against the profession and against the public school, in disregard of the warnings and realities of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u451	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u452	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] Your vision of vertical and authoritarian management is contrary to the status of public service teachers. Let me finish, thank you! For our part, we do not give up on the growth of a horizontal and democratic functioning. [[Caroline Fiat and Muriel Ressiguier applaud]] Although we are part of the opposition, minister, we deserve better than caricature and contempt. There is not, on the one hand, the progressives that you seem to want to embody, and on the other, the Conservatives who would only like the status quo. No, Minister, we do not want the status quo; We have tabled amendments, but, as usual, they have all been swept away with one back of hand. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] For all these reasons, we will vote resolutely against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u453	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u454	We have disagreements, some of which are very deep, and we will continue to have disagreements. It is classic that communists, socialists and insubstantials do not agree – sometimes they are, but it is quite rare – with the ultraliberal project. That is what makes not only the flavor but the foundation of Parliament and our democracy. The problem here is that school principals have been consulted, that you have decided to make a Grenelle, that you have made a synthesis of it, that you have given us the positions expressed during these consultations – as elected officials and citizens, we are also in contact in our territories with teachers. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. – Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Michèle Victory also applauds]] A petition was launched by some teachers against this bill because they found that a consultation had taken place. Were they asking for an additional hierarchical level? No. They were asking for time, landfills and long-term administrative assistance. However, this is not answered because there is a hierarchical level, but no permanent and egalitarian means of administrative aid. It is not that the insoumis, the communists or others want to disagree; It is simply that you do not meet the expectations of school principals and principals who, for some of them, are in arrears and experience a loss of sense that tends to spread.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u455	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u456	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 81 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 65 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u457	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u458	First of all, I would like to thank you, minister, for if you had not asked for an extended sitting in the Senate, this text would never have come back before us. Secondly, I thank the group presidents, Gilles Le Gendre and Christophe Castaner, and the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, Bruno Studer – he had to leave us – for having trusted me from the beginning and for having supported this bill. Of course, I also thank Sylvie Charière and Céline Calvez, as well as all the colleagues who have been present and supported me from the beginning. My thanks go also to the collaborators and administrators who have worked hard with me on this text, especially my team: Victoria Jolly, Jean Exilus and Karim Boulkhoubz. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Finally, I would like to thank the school principals with whom I have worked for the past four years to write this text. Some are present in the fora and I would like to greet them and, through them, all the school principals who have regularly given me their comments and proposals. I think we have taken this into account in developing this bill, which is a first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-29-E3008.u459	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Draft law authorizing the approval of the social security agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Union Institute for Security Studies; Bill authorizing approval of the declaration on the operation phase of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers at the Guiana Space Centre. The meeting is adjourned.
