ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u1	The next item is questions on the strategy for the reopening of places of culture in the context of the covid -19 pandemic. The Conference of Presidents set the maximum time limit for questions and answers at two minutes. Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u2	For fourteen months, both French and professionals have suffered from the closure of cultural places. Culture is indeed a call to curiosity, to dream, to hope. In Paris, it was she who made the light city shine, which is now extinct, as are museums, theatres, cinemas or theatres. Culture is also economically essential. Ile-de-France alone accounts for almost half of the workers in the sector who, fortunately, have been able to benefit from the unwavering support of the public authorities for a year. Since the last announcements by the President of the Republic, cultural actors have had reason to hope, even if the epidemiological situation remains fragile, everyone is called upon to show responsibility. In any case, professionals in the sector are prepared to take their part: the use of gauge limits for theatres, cinemas or museums, as well as strict protocols ensuring the maintenance of barrier gestures and physical distancing, are essential elements of the reopening strategy on which they have worked with the departments of the Ministry of Culture. Minister, we know how much you are personally committed to providing opportunities for the entire sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u3	Cirage!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u4	A new example is the holding of an experimental test on 29 May in Bercy to allow 5,000 people to attend a concert by the Indochina group. Could you explain to us the objectives you assign to this test and its future declinations on other scenes? In addition, what conditions do you envisage for the reopening of theatres, particularly in terms of timetables, particularly between 19 May and 30 June, during which period the curfew will still be in force?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u5	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u6	The objective of the test concert experiment is to strengthen our knowledge of the virus circulation and to improve the protocols that are absolutely essential to ensure the safety of both spectators and participants, as well as artists and technicians. This initiative should not be seen as a condition for the resumption of cultural activities, but as a means of helping us define the protocols and modalities for welcoming the public according to the results we will achieve. It targets events – large gauges, standing spectators – that have completely ceased since March 2020 – not all cultural venues have been closed for fourteen months, but this type of show, yes. The organization is well advanced; an interdepartmental meeting must take place within the next few days to determine whether authorization can be given. As you can imagine, behind these issues are heavy legal issues. We continue to work with professionals to refine the rules on gauges and protocols: many work sessions are scheduled this week on the subject. The reopening of cinemas and theatres will be permitted in sitting configuration with a gauge equivalent to 35% of the maximum capacity provided for by the fire safety standards, up to a limit of 800 spectators. The gauge will be increased to 65 per cent in June before a total lifting of the restrictions on 1 July. For museums and monuments, the gauge could be set at eight square metres per visitor and then lowered to four square metres per visitor on June 9. These are the first elements of my response that I could bring to you, and on which I will have the opportunity to return.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u7	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u8	Minister, it's a real pleasure to be on these benches, I hope you're all right. I am also pleased to discuss with you the strategy for the reopening of places of culture, a subject proposed at the initiative of my group. France is pleased to see that this reopening, announced on 31 March and confirmed on 29 April by the President of the Republic, is about to take place. All the actors in the culture are preparing for it. I am an elected woman from rural areas and I like to witness her particularities. In New Aquitaine, the epidemic has been less virulent than in other regions, and this is still the case today. Therefore, can we consider the application of different gauges in the cultural places of this territory, whether it be cinemas, theatres or festivals? [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] You have had the opportunity to talk about the work you are doing in conjunction with the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, Cédric O, to set up a health pass. Could this pass be a way of reopening cultural places more serenely? I will go over the ethical and legal issues attached to such a measure, which have already been extensively discussed, to ask you about its application in rural areas, which suffers from the digital divide. Indeed, the sanitary pass will exist a priori in digital form, thanks to the internet and an application – perhaps AllAntiCovid. So how can we prevent this measure from paradoxically affecting rural people, who are less exposed to coronaviruses, but who sometimes also have less access to certain technological means?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u9	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u10	Madam Member, thank you for your wishes. When one is affected by covid-19, one realizes the extent to which precautionary measures must accompany any reopening strategy. At this stage, the President of the Republic has wished to establish a national framework for the reopening of places of cultivation, which will be carried out in a uniform manner from 19 May, with reduced gauges for a gradual resumption. For clarity, it seems to me that it is necessary, as a first step, to maintain this national framework. Nevertheless, the President referred to the possibility of using emergency health brakes in territories where the virus would circulate too much. Of course, some departments – you mentioned yours, that of the Gironde – are less affected than others. However, it is known that the epidemic can evolve very quickly. Remember the opening of the museums in Florence in front of a cloud of cameras; A week later, they were closing, but the cameras were missing this time. With regard to the health pass, the Government had decided to apply it to events and places hosting more than 1,000 people, not only in the field of culture, but also to other sectors, such as sport and events. However, the pass will not be required to access everyday places of life such as restaurants, theatres or cinemas. As for the digital divide, it is still present. You raise a crucial point here, but I want to reassure you: in order to guarantee the accessibility of everyone to the health pass, the methods of presenting the evidence can be of different nature, in electronic form in the TousAntiCovid application, thanks to a system of QR code certified and encrypted; but also on paper, the code being in this case printable by the healthcare professional performing the test or vaccination or directly by the user, from the site ameli.fr for the vaccination certificate from 18 May and from the national platform sidep.gouv.fr for the result of the test.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u11	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u12	Madam Minister, you pointed out that the world of culture is suffering from this crisis, but the reality is that the government's action allows the sector to keep its head out of the water, despite the difficulties. In this respect, structural aid is welcome. My question will be about places of cultural expression nearby as one can know in the rural world. This is the case in particular of the House, the house of culture of Nevers, which I recently visited. These places, vital for the dissemination of culture to as many people as possible, will be able to reopen by applying a certain gauge of spectators. However, in smaller cultural places, ticketing takes a proportionately larger place in the balance of the budget. In the event that the imposed gauge does not allow the financial balance to be achieved in the coming months, what will be the mechanisms at work? In order to attract the public to the rooms, it seems to me necessary to use the existing devices, even to adapt them. I am thinking, for example, of the culture pass, for which funding exists, but whose success is mixed. If any crisis gives rise to an opportunity, it is necessary to seize this opportunity to discover or rediscover the living culture to our youth. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Beyond the rooms, it is an ecosystem that lives on culture. Monteurs, producers, authors, actors, technicians, administrative staff: this whole production chain that creates intellectual value must be taken into account, because this is also the French cultural exception. As far as aid is concerned, we are, of course, moving towards the withdrawal of the world of culture, but it will have to be progressive in order not to undermine the efforts made by the Government for many months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u13	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u14	Dear Perrine Goulet, you evoked the house of the culture of Nevers, where we met a few months ago to inaugurate the esplanade Marcel-Narquin, which faces him; I remain very attached to my hometown. The reopening is finally here. Of course, not all constraints will be lifted at once. Indeed, in May and June, gauges will remain limited and curfew will continue, even if we gradually postpone the time at which it begins. The conditions for recovery will thus be degraded from an economic point of view. I have therefore worked on an accompanying scheme which extends, by adapting them, those put in place last autumn for all the channels – cinema, music, live shows: a fund intended to compensate for the losses of the tickets. We are in discussion with Bercy to calibrate it very precisely and the final decisions will be taken very soon. Small structures, often present, in rural areas will not be left behind. As you point out, it remains to attract the public. I really want to encourage the French to reconnect with the pleasure of cultural outings. It is by returning to our places of culture that we will help professionals who have been so affected by the crisis. As regards aid, Bruno Le Maire made several announcements this morning, in particular concerning the maintenance of the solidarity fund for May, before a gradual decrease over three months, from June to August. We have always been at the side of cultural professionals: in no other European country has the aid given to them reached such a large scale. Of course, we will continue to accompany them. As far as culture is concerned, I shall have the opportunity in a few moments to provide further information.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u15	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u16	It has been more than a year since our cultural life, as more generally the life of the French, was put in brackets. "Culture," said André Malraux, "is what answers man when he asks himself what he is doing on earth. That is why the lack of culture has reached the morale of the French. Before the first confinement in March 2020, only one Frenchman in ten had no morale; Today, this figure is 31%. Young people are particularly affected, deprived that they are leisure and social ties, essential to their construction. Culture is paramount. While it could be a powerful engine for the well-being of all and a space for breathing, while many feel deprived of freedom, we must not, we could no longer deprive ourselves of this space of sharing and capital enrichment. It is also, as you know, the minister, one of the areas most affected by the pandemic, and we obviously understand the distress of artists. I, like my colleague, wanted to pay tribute to your unwavering commitment to supporting the sector and the artists. It is 9 billion euros that have been mobilised, in addition to the 2 billion granted under the France Recovery Plan, to help all actors in the cultural world. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The question that I wanted to ask you is a little off-the-shelf with regard to the reopening of cultural places: it concerns cultural activities – I recently met with the staff of the dance sector. The French and French who practice them are eager to take them back. What schedule can you give us tonight on this matter? When will French and French people be able to resume their cultural activities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u17	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u18	You will excuse me, Ms. Jacquier-Laforge, for not immediately answering the question about cultural activities such as dance. I will respond in a few moments, while trying to keep within the two minutes that are given to me. You rightly recalled that state support for the cultural sector, in this crisis, was of considerable magnitude, without equivalent in the other countries of Europe: 9 billion euros, it is an unprecedented amount at world level. As I said, we will continue to accompany the sector in the weeks and months to come. The cultural offer in our country is rich and – it too – unrivalled, both by its quality and by its omnipresence in the territories. The latest report on the cultural practices of the French thus indicates that there are no cultural deserts in France. Every territory – I'm thinking of yours, l'Isère – has many festivals, museums and theatres that are waiting for only one thing: to reopen and find their audience. This reopening is here. It concerns all cultural places which reopen at the same time from 19 May. It is this unique date that has mobilized me over the last few weeks. We will all be able to find cinemas, theatres and concert halls, museums, monuments and galleries. I recall the three phases of the process. From 19 May to 8 June, all cultural venues will be reopened, with the exception of rooms and festivals in standing configuration, and the curfew will be staggered by two hours – so it will start at twenty-one hours. From 9 to 30 June, the gauge restrictions will be relaxed and the curfew will be shifted to 23 hours, allowing for a full evening session.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u19	These are forecasts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u20	We will be able to find real evenings and take full advantage of the cultural places. In addition to 1000 people, establishments receiving public access will have to organise regulated access, based on the presentation of the health pass. From 1 July, the gauge restrictions will be lifted, with distancing taking place only in traffic spaces for establishments in indoor configuration. Really, I encourage everyone to enjoy the cultural outings!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u21	The next speaker is Mrs Maud Petit (Dem).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u22	Minister, we are pleased to meet you tonight. After months that have been particularly difficult for the world of culture, especially since last October, the timetable for deconfining and the measures of gradual reopening are a relief for the cultural sector and for our citizens. We are happy to be able to touch the return to a life where art will finally regain its essential place as a social bond and intellectual food. But the challenge is great and the methods of action complex because, while we support culture today, we must also accompany it towards the future. The first part of my question concerns the organisation of open-air festivals, a unfortunately growing number of which cancel their 2021 edition in view of the planned framework – sitting configuration, measuring less than 5000 people – the delay in the organisation of the test concerts that could allow the return to a standing concert organisation, and the refusal of the assurances to accompany the institutions, by means of exclusion clauses targeting the pandemic of covid. What measures are envisaged by the Government in the short and medium terms, in addition to the support fund, to safeguard these unifying and popular cultural events? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, it is absolutely necessary to accompany the sector in order to encourage the financing of tomorrow's creation. The investment capacity of the institutions, which is a guarantee of new creations, is a matter of concern. This support depends on the sustainability of our cultural model; Financing creation is therefore a crucial issue. What is envisaged, Madam Minister, on this point at this stage?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u23	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u24	It will be difficult to answer all your questions in two minutes, Madame Petit! Indeed, festivals are a very important element of cultural animation in our territories and I have made them a priority of my ministerial action. The Government announced the first framework on 18 February – a maximum gauge, in seated configuration, of 5000 people with distancing – in order to bring visibility to festival organizers, some of whom could no longer wait to position themselves. At the same time, inter-ministerial work has been undertaken to build a step-by-step recovery support system for all institutions receiving from the public. The President of the Republic presented the general framework last Thursday. The Ministry of Culture was the driving force behind these reflections. Through vaccination and the improvement of the health situation, we are entering a period when reopening will be the norm. The vast majority of summer festivals will be held. The arrangements for the resumption of festivals will follow the rules applicable to each category, and as of 19 May, festivals will be able to host their audiences. Of course, the constraints will not be lifted at once. The relaxation, as I said, will be done gradually, in phases. All these modalities will be set out in protocols co-built with the professionals, which we will financially support with the creation of a 30 million euro festival fund to compensate for the operating losses of the organizers who will maintain – and I welcome it – their events despite the health constraints. In view of the reality of the festivals, €20 million will be dedicated to music and managed by the National Music Centre (CNM), in conjunction with the Regional Directorates for Cultural Affairs (DRAC); 10 million will go to the other disciplines and will be allocated by the Ministry of Culture – either by the central administration or by the deconcentrated services. This exceptional fund demonstrates the strong commitment of the state to accompany festivals this year. I confess that there is work, the task is complex; But there is a real will to resume the activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u25	We come to the questions of the Socialist and Related Group. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u26	The announcement of the reopening, on 19 May, of all cultural places is news expected both by our fellow citizens and by the cultural community, whose establishments are among the economic sectors hardest hit by the health crisis. This re-opening will be crucial not only to drive economic recovery but also to re-establish social ties throughout our territory. This will be the case, I hope, in my department of the Sarthe: I have a thought for the national scene Les Quinconces -L'Espal au Mans, the theatre of Chaoué-Port-Belle Eau in Allonnes or the Entracte in Sablé, as well as for all the other places that I cannot quote here. However, this simultaneous reopening of museums, cinemas and theatres, which are burdened with specific problems of ventilation, circulation in space and limits of gauges according to the public, accompanied by a curfew of twenty-one hours, leaves many questions unanswered. Decided without consultation and suspended from the threat of an outbreak of the epidemic, it can only be carried out in a degraded manner and will continue to generate costs for professionals in the sector. As we all know, this sector is very weak. The Senate mission on the impact of the health crisis on cultural institutions points out in its conclusions that the support provided to them by the State has remained generally below their needs, that insurance has not played their part and that these institutions no longer have any cash reserves in view of the recovery. How can we ensure the future of this affected sector, such as cinemas, without a very long-term accompaniment? Minister, in the face of these uncertainties, will you, on the one hand, continue to support the establishments as long as they are subject to gauge restrictions and, on the other hand, help them adapt their activities by creating a fund for the equipping of the rooms with more efficient ventilation and ventilation systems and by supporting the development of digital offers as proposed by the Senate mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u27	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u28	Mrs Tolmont, I cannot let you say that we have worked without consultation with industry professionals. I can inform you of the schedule of meetings which have enabled us, throughout these months, to prepare the protocols and adapt them to the health situation. All cultural professionals welcomed the collaborative work that has been carried out by my firm and my services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u29	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u30	Where you are right, it is that the security protocols, of course, called for adaptation and reflection: the problem of a cinema is not the same as that of a theatre, and between the large iconic theatres and the small theatres, which bring culture to life and to which we are so attached, the stakes are obviously very different. We will accompany and continue to accompany cultural venues, actors, operators and managers. The 9 billion aid that has been directly provided to the cultural sector represents a very considerable figure. While Germany has almost 20 million more inhabitants than France, Angela Merkel announced a first aid salve of 1 billion, and the world of German culture welcomed, as a truly ambitious policy, another billion. Aid to the world of culture thus amounts to 2 billion in Germany and 9 billion in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u31	Comparison is not right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u32	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Of course, this is never enough in this area and it can always be considered that the euro must be compensated, but this aid, which is not at the level of any other country in the world, has been completely new and the concertation, massive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u33	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u34	Madam Minister, first of all, I wish you a full recovery with us tonight. Once again, modestly, I salute the commitment of our artists to ensure that culture remains accessible in a particularly difficult context, but also their struggle for their economic and artistic survival, which nourishes our imaginations and helps us to live. After the announcements by the President of the Republic last Friday regarding the prospects for reopening cultural sites, we feel a little breath of hope, but so many questions remain outstanding. Minister, this evening I wish to relay the dismay of festival organizers and volunteers, important economic actors in our territories. You have just declined the deconfining measures, but what accompaniments will compensate the devices in reduced gauge, sitting or standing, just like the absence of a buvette? I don't doubt your intentions, but do you think that a festival of thousands of people can change its organization every two weeks based on the impact rate of a territory? There is also the question of aid for those who, for the second consecutive year, are obliged to cancel, unable to ensure a financial balance. This is the case, for example, of the Ardèche Aluna Festival, which has unfortunately been denied by your firm the possibility of being a test festival, despite the very adapted protocol that was proposed. It's a big disappointment. Will the 20 million you have announced be directed towards these festivals and what will be the criteria for obtaining these aids? We are also concerned about the conditions under which intermittent young people will enter the labour market after this dead year. In this regard, Madam Minister, are you going to plead for new measures to accompany intermittents and for the abandonment of the reform of unemployment insurance which, for these workers, announces a huge loss of income? Finally, support for the roaming of creative circuses has been put in place, and I welcome this measure; But what about the more popular fairgrounders and demonstrations? It is more than 100,000 events that irrigate our territories: votive festivals, various festivities organized by communities, associations and holiday committees. What mechanism has the Government put in place to assist foragers, whose work tool has been shut down for more than a year? I know that the subject matter is not directly within your department, but these events are still part of our heritage culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u35	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u36	A little ride ride!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u37	I hope you give me two hours, Mr. President, to answer all these very technical questions! I have already largely answered the question of festivals and aids which will of course be adapted and calibrated. We are working with the Minister of Economy and Finance. Your question shows how diverse the cultural sector is. Some of the activities that are close to it do not belong to my ministry: for example, foremen. The discotheques, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, could also be mentioned. On the other hand, small circuses, including these family circuses that so well irrigate the cultural life of our territories, fall within my competence; I have also created a specific fund to support them, the existence of which will be renewed. The border of the world of culture is therefore tenuous. In any event, I do not want to reduce the merits of each other in relation to the others: all the actors I have mentioned participate in the territorial animation and benefit from the best support from the competent ministry. You asked me about intermittents. Together with Mrs Borne, the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration, we have received a report from Mr André Gauron which goes back to their situation at the end of the white year, which ends on 31 August 2021, and proposes protective measures applicable from 1 September. Decided from the beginning of the health crisis by the President of the Republic, the White Year played an essential role in the social protection of cultural professionals and the preservation of the artistic and technical capacities of live performance and audiovisual. I note that I have exceeded my speaking time, but I will have other opportunities to go back more precisely to the conclusions of the Gauron report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u38	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u39	First of all, let me thank our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats for putting this debate on the agenda, because culture is also an essential subject for us. I would also like to thank you, Minister, for your exemplary commitment to artists and to all professionals in the world of culture, who are in great need of them. In this unprecedented health crisis, the Government, by your voice, responded present. I am thinking this evening of performing professionals living, musicians, actors, soloists, intermittent or non-intermittent, plasticists, authors, curators-restaurants, and more generally of all the professions of art, culture and heritage whose activity has been at a standstill since March 2020. State aid has been massive, and it was legitimate, but cultural actors have, more than others, experienced difficulties in benefiting from it. Madam Minister, as you said, what would be terrible for the world of culture is stop and go: that is why the Government worked on a reopening schedule, announced last week. This timetable is clear and allows professionals in the sector to finally see the end of the tunnel. In contrast to the previous phases of deconfination, we now have the weapon of vaccination to combat the virus and to consider with more serenity the reopening of cultural places. If cinemas, museums, theatres and theatres can again receive from the public from 19 May, this gradual resumption will be conditioned, until 30 June, by the application of strict sanitary protocols, compliance with curfews and the fixing of reduced gauges. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] While waiting for a return to normal, which we all hope for quickly, can you tell us how the state will financially accompany cultural places so that the only partial reopening of their doors does not threaten their economic balance?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u40	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u41	Stopandgo is what we would be exposed to if we did not take specific health protection measures, applicable both to places and to people, as well as to spectators, artists and technicians. Those who wonder about these measures or who would be tempted to force the move must be aware of the disaster that would result from an uncontrolled reopening. Indeed, reviving the activity of the world of culture is not like lighting up the light: we need to re-launch rehearsals, put the places back into operation, ensure the distribution of films in the theaters... And professionals tell us all the difficulties that this entails. Museums, too, need to convene their teams, train them to new health standards, coach them – still anglicism! – and to remotivate them after a long period of inactivity. That is why protective measures – an expression I prefer to that of "barrier measures" – are absolutely essential, even if they are sometimes perceived as constraints. The success of the reopening is therefore also in the hands of the French, who will have to continue to respect these measures during the three phases that I have described. The accompanying measures will also depend on how the recovery takes place. The same applies to a number of direct aids to the personnel concerned: we are calibrating them. I have already given some details, but these provisions will be refined in the coming weeks with the Ministry of Economy. I repeat, we will not let anyone down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u42	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u43	The group Agir ensemble welcomes the announcement of the organisation of several concerts-tests in Paris and in the region, which we had asked for several months ago. These concerts will allow us to measure with greater precision the risks of infection associated with this type of event and to determine more finely the sanitary protocols to which the concerts will have to be subjected again authorized. The scientific work at our disposal shows that no cluster has ever been formed outside. It is therefore essential, in order to ensure the resumption of the activity of the cultural actors, to find places available in the open air, particularly in large agglomerations. I am thinking in particular of festivals and events involving more than 5000 people. Beyond communal green spaces, other outdoor places, such as the "isles de loisirs" in Île-de-France, could allow for a large audience while respecting the requirements of safety and public tranquillity. Minister, will outside concerts be held as part of the ongoing experiment? Can you also tell us how the Government works with local and regional authorities, including municipalities and regions, to mobilize places available to promote open-air cultural events?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u44	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u45	I'm very much in favour of these open-air concerts. We have received a number of proposals, for example Emmanuel Demancy-Mota about the Autumn Festival in Paris, and we are studying this in the best way. For several months, cultural professionals have been developing experimental concert projects with scientific institutions. These experiments, I repeat, aim to improve our knowledge of the circulation of the virus and to improve health protocols. It is not a question of allowing disguised or anticipated reopenings, but of helping us to adapt, according to the results obtained, the arrangements for welcoming the public. Various stages of scientific validation are planned: consulted, CAPNET, the ad hoc national steering committee for therapeutic trials and other research on Covid-19, may issue the label "national research priority" to studies it considers priority in the fight against Covid-19; when one is in the field of research involving the human person, the Committee for the Protection of Persons (CPPs) shall also give its opinion on the research project presented; Finally, the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products (ANSM) must also decide. It is also necessary to take into account the health conditions of the territory in order to carry out the experiment. To date, two projects have passed all scientific advice and are awaiting government approval to derogate from the existing regulatory framework. Other projects are less advanced. With regard to financing, like any scientific experiment, it is the bearers of cultural projects and their promoters who have to bear the burden, but here too we will help them, as do the local authorities. For example, the Paris City Hall has made available the Accor Arena room free of charge, which is a substantial aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Hidalgo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u47	We come to the questions of the IDU and independent group. Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u48	In any war there are fighters but above all victims and I believe that, in what the President of the Republic called a war against the virus, the world of culture, as well as traders long considered non-essential, has suffered the greatest damage. We are pleased that the time has come for liberation, although everyone fears that it will last until the autumn. As part of the general resumption of activity, the President of the Republic announced the reopening of the places of culture on 19 May; We obviously welcome this announcement. However, there are still many uncertainties related to recovery conditions, which are feared to be disparate depending on the epidemic situation, incidence rate and saturation of resuscitation services. In addition, gauge limits are a concern for some museums or theatres that may not be able to reopen if the ticket office does not cover their costs. In this activity, the financial balance is almost full. These reservations are rooted in the evolution and fracture of cultural practice over the past year, not to mention the sense of frustration experienced by the cultural world, which feels abandoned by politics. I'd like to ask you about the gauges, Madam Minister. On 19 May, approximately 10 million French will be vaccinated and this number will continue to increase until the restrictions are lifted on 30 June. As the vaccination campaign is expected to accelerate further, 13 million people are expected to be fully vaccinated by 9 June. Knowing that people who are fully vaccinated are not, it seems, more contagious or likely to be infected, this makes for the rooms a significant potential of safe clients. Therefore, could we consider not taking into account vaccinated persons when calculating the gauges, so that the filling of the rooms ensures that they are at a level closer to the rate of return?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u49	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u50	To speak of abandonment by the public authorities, while France has provided the cultural world with assistance of an unprecedented scale, without equivalent in the rest of the world, seems to me deeply exaggerated. The reopening will concern all places of culture without distinction. It will be done gradually, but over a short period of time. I am fully aware that, in some establishments, only a full gauge will achieve financial profitability, but this gauge limit will only take effect until 1 July: the financial balance you want can therefore be reached very quickly, provided of course that the French return to the path of the places of culture and that they are offered – but I do not doubt – attractive programmes. The plan presented by the President of the Republic on 29 April envisages, in order to enrich our arsenal of fight against the epidemic, the establishment of a health pass aimed at facilitating the reopening of establishments and the resumption of activities in situations where the risk of epidemic spread is highest, while the virus continues to circulate very actively on our soil. Without this tool, we would likely have delayed the reopening of cultural and sporting venues and events for more than 1000 people. The Scientific Council was asked to give its opinion on the desirability of introducing this health pass and its conditions of use. This opinion is expected by the Law Commission's consideration of the draft law on the management of the exit from a health crisis. Three types of evidence are envisaged: negative test, positive test to indicate the immunity of the person who has already been infected, vaccination certificate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u51	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u52	I want to ask you, Madam Minister, about the situation of our youth. After seeing its summer of 2020 sacrificed, since she could not attend any concert or participate in any festival, it seems that she is about to experience a similar new summer. Many cultural actors fear this new summer. Indeed, if, as announced by the executive, vaccination is open to all French people from 15 June, will we have enough doses and staff to vaccinate all young people? Thus, in the presentation of its deconfining plan, the Government indicated that from 30 June onwards, the maximum public limit would be adapted to events and the local health situation. However, places of cultivation must be able to organise their activities in good health or economic conditions. I am thinking, in particular, of the numerous Vosgesian associations that I have met with representatives, notably the Airplay association and the Modern Dance Academy of Remiremont, which organize concerts and shows in the open air or in the theatre. The vast majority of young people are concerned that they will not be able to participate in these cultural events. As for associations, they wondered whether they would receive financial compensation if a limit was set on the number of eligible spectators. They also bring numerous subcontractors to life during the organization of concerts and festivals. That is why they are asking for precise information on the conditions under which they will be able to work this summer, as well as human and financial support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u53	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u54	There is no reason to doubt our country's ability to carry out the vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u55	The Government has proved its worth in the last few months!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u56	The questions you ask me are more a matter for the Minister of Solidarity and Health; I have no doubt that he will have the opportunity, in a forthcoming debate, to answer you fully on the supply of vaccines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u57	It's all right, Mrs. Marquise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u58	Colleagues, please listen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u59	That's all we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u60	As far as the health pass is concerned,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u61	Mr Cordier, stop interrupting the Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u62	The brouhaha doesn't bother me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u63	Brouhahaha? There are five of us in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u64	The health pass, therefore, as envisaged today, should provide for three types of evidence: the negative test, the positive immunity test and the vaccination certificate. As for the cultural associations, to which I am very attached, they participate in the richness of our cultural offer. If we have a national framework, it is for the sake of setting a clear framework before developing differentiated responses according to the territories and types of cultural activities. The situation is complicated enough like this: to help the actors to find themselves there, I called for a single date for reopening cultural places and for a sufficiently wide margin of adaptation. As for the amateur practices, to which I am very attached, I said, they will not be forgotten. We are working to give them visibility and the possibility of being adapted very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u65	What about the financial aid?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u66	With regard to the braking measures, which you are referring to, the President of the Republic has indicated three factors to consider: the incidence rate, the sharp increase in this rate and the saturation of the resuscitation services. If the thresholds are met, the Government, in consultation with the prefects and local authorities, will of course take the necessary decisions. In any case, it is the French who, in keeping with health standards, will allow everything to go well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u67	What about the financial aid?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u68	We come to the questions of the Freedom and Territory Group. Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u69	It is essential to recall the context in which the possible reopening of cultural places will take place, since they are entirely dependent on the development of the health situation – which is normal. At the end of January, the President of the Republic chose not to take firm measures, although their social acceptance was still strong at that date. The choice was thus made, unlike other countries, to allow the contamination curve to rise to a level which today leaves France only a very narrow margin of manoeuvre. It is in this context, without real visibility, that the Government therefore envisages a reopening of cultural places around 19 May, with a strategy of resumption of three phases. In fact, concerts and festivals will not be able to restart as early as 19 May. The recovery strategy, which can only be gradual, concerns only sitting gauges, which is not suitable for certain types of concerts or festivals. The proposed Phase 1 to date is not feasible for a large part of the players because of the territorialisation and maintenance of the curfew at 7 p.m., without the possibility of time stamping. However, this system had the health advantage of separating flows. The same applies to private theatres, for which phase 1 is too unprofitable. The experiment of a test concert with 5,000 standing people will only take place on May 29th. You have not been very clear, Madam Minister, on the funding of this experiment, particularly its scientific aspect. I therefore ask you the question. Important resources were allocated during the crisis to the cultural sector, which is to be welcomed, but in the face of the uncertainties that remain and the restrictions placed on financial support for the actors – my colleague Christophe Naegelen also did not get an answer to his question on this point – what is planned to ensure the recovery of the sector in May and beyond? The announced reopening does not rhyme with the return to economic equilibrium, which will not be possible for months to come. As you know, the situation is also catastrophic for authors, who have no other income than the rights of their works. Finally, the idea of a health pass to access cultural places is on the way to the Government and you have told us a little more this evening. However, after culture has been classified as a non-essential activity, you again choose to marginalize it on the grounds that cultural sites present risks from the point of view of virus circulation. This argument may be agreed, but many other activities pose a similar risk. Why do you mention the circulation of the virus and the health risks for cultural places and not for other activities? This is the question you must answer in order to prevent the cultural sector from feeling stigmatized over others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u70	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u71	[[Smile]] The world of festivals presents extremely varied situations. The term "festival" is used to refer to events of a diverse nature that expose to different health risks. Between a festival of baroque music that gathers, in a Romanesque church, between 100 or 150 people and a festival of metal, electro or rap music, which sometimes gathers 10,000 to 20,000 people, one can see clearly where the health risk lies. We all know the habit of the young people who attend these concerts to gather around the stage where the artists perform by practicing the pogo, the mosh or the wall of death, which consists of forming two groups of spectators on either side of the pit and heading towards each other in disorderly movements. It is easy to understand, the configuration is not at all the same in such a concert as in a baroque music concert organized in a Romanesque church! There are therefore different constraints, depending on the case, on the health precautions to be taken. In reality, most of the metal, electro and rap music festivals have been cancelled for a long time, and not for our sake. The truth is that the large foreign groups usually programmed have chosen to abandon Europe because they do not want to expose themselves to the risk of contamination. As early as February, they informed the organizers that they would not participate in the festivals. The whole of Europe is also affected by this decision, not just France. Some festivals were simply cancelled. However, I would like to commend the organizers of several festivals popular with young people, who have done a remarkable job of reorganizing themselves. I am thinking in particular of the Old Charrues and the Green Cabaret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u72	All right! It's in the Ardennes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u73	I'll go to several of these festivals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u74	You're invited! It's in my constituency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u75	I've already made an appointment to go to the Old Charrues, but I don't rule out participating in other festivals. Their organizers have done a great job of adapting and will offer shows to our young people this summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u76	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u77	My colleague Christophe Naegelen and I will therefore have no answers to our questions... Too bad! Let me turn to my second question. Going to the cinema is the second prohibited leisure that French people miss the most – 63.6% of them – after going to the restaurant or the café – to 82.4% of them. As you pointed out, minister, the films are getting mixed up in the distributors. No less than 420 films would be on the shelves, compared to 370 films released in 2019. For this reason, in February, the Film Mediatrix seized the Autorité de la concurrence to request that an agreement be reached between the distributors on a film release schedule in order to preserve the diversity of the offer and the widest possible distribution of the films. In its opinion delivered on 16 April, the Autorité de la concurrence considered that such an agreement could be authorized in the exceptional context we know, but clarified that this timetable could only be voluntary. The decision at the individual level, for each film and for each company, how can we accept to sacrifice investments on one side and talents on the other? According to what criteria? With what legitimacy? Even if such an agreement is made, there will be sacrificed films anyway. Before the crisis, the number of films released every Wednesday was already a major issue and the mechanism in force led to the speedy sanctioning of a film that did not fill a sufficient number of seats per room. What about a reduced gauge room? Selecting the date and number of copies are strategic elements. Again, the decisions taken at the end of January to allow the contamination curve to rise and to continue to use the AstraZeneca vaccine, which it is established does not protect against variants, do not give visibility to the actors. The rooms will open, but there is no guarantee that they will remain open or that the gauges will be able to increase. But only visibility would allow film releases to spread. In the face of this uncertainty, should we not work as quickly as possible on the financial situation of distributors and producers to help them hold on to time, by reflecting on the financial costs, the improvement of the support fund and the maintenance of cross-cutting aids, which would make the spread of films viable? If producers and distributors do not recover their investments, they will not invest in other films. After too many films, we risk being confronted with a lack of films.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u78	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u79	We can first of all welcome the fact that, in this difficult period, shootings have continued to be allowed, thanks to which 150 French films have been shot in recent months, with the massive support of the Ministry of Culture through the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image, the CNC. We must welcome the existence of this state operator, which, despite the vagaries of the changes of the majority, makes it possible to carry out a real policy of support for cinema and to probably retain in France the last film industry in Europe. Today we find ourselves in front of what has been called "a film wall", since 150 French films and 250 foreign films are waiting to be released, which is a real challenge when we need to reassure and win back the public. I am, however, more confident than you, Mrs. Dumas. You call on me to engage in dialogue with distributors and producers, but this dialogue has already begun for several months with a view to overcoming, under the best possible conditions, the challenge of this film wall before us. Fortunately, as you said, the Autorité de la concurrence issued an extremely encouraging opinion on 16 April, opening the possibility of a temporary agreement between distributors on the timing of film releases. In response to this opinion, at my request, the CNC is actively working on a framework agreement that distributors could adopt in order to arrive at a concerted timetable for exits. I trust the responsibility of all distributors to ensure that this agreement is concluded quickly and for the benefit of everyone. This agreement will be complemented by the temporary development of the media chronology, which has already been in place since 1 April, which allows distributors who wish to do so to release their films directly on a channel other than the cinema, while retaining the assistance that the CNC has paid them. Finally, the film mediator and the CNC will be able, as was already the case in June 2020, to publish a complementary recommendation on programming. However, we already know that several American blockbusters will not be released in the first opening period of the theaters, leaving an important time slot for the release of French films. In any event, film professionals are confident that a satisfactory solution can be reached at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u80	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u81	[[Mr. Bastien Lachaud applauds]] "Culture sacrificed! "Government disqualified! "No to the reform of unemployment insurance! These slogans can be read in Angoulême, Marseille, Orléans, Lille, Paris or Rennes. That you find the occupation of places of culture useless and dangerous, Madam Minister, the intermittents have nothing to do with it; They want rights. From the Odeon, a glimmer of hope has rekindled and won the whole country: more than 100 cultural places have been invested to reaffirm that art is essential to our society. For art makes political spaces possible and it increases the power of the imagination; Cyrano de Bergerac walked on the moon long before Neil Armstrong. The intermittents of the show were added the intermittents of the employment, the forgotten, the set aside, the invisibles who serve, clean, prepare, ensure safety. You may think that May 19 will mark a return to normal for them: far from there! The sector is permanently affected and the resumption of cultural activity will take place in stages. Tens of thousands of intermittents will still not be able to return to work and on May 19 will not sign the end of their movement or anger. The reopening of cultural places is nothing without social guarantees to accompany it. The intermittents shouted loudly at the May 1 demonstration: "No culture without social rights! » As for the 2.2 million unemployed, they have nothing or nothing but crumbs. All are calling for the withdrawal of your unworthy reform of unemployment insurance, criticized by all the unions, which will impoverish more than 1 million people compensated in the midst of a pandemic, as the number of jobs collapses. The latest figures are without appeal: on the basis of employment and equal pay, people will be able to receive allowances fifty times less than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u82	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u83	[[MM. BastienLachaudandPierreDharrévilleapplaud]] You're more quick to make the pockets of those who suffer than to tax those who profit from a crisis that gets spoiled like never before. Madam Minister, what follow-up are you going to give to the white year of intermittents and what do you say to these millions of precarious people that your reform, of which no one wants, condemns to social death?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u84	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u85	I am, of course, attentive and respectful of the movements that have taken place in certain cultural places. There are about eighty-five; There may be very few occupants, but of course they deserve to be listened to. This is what I did when I went to the Odeon Theatre to listen to the concerns and fears expressed by these intermittents but also by other people. I will not reply, since this session is devoted to the world of culture, to the more general aspect of your intervention. My concern is to ensure the rights of the show's intermittents. Intermittance, the jewel of France's cultural policy, does not exist anywhere else. That is why we, Élisabeth Borne and I, have entrusted André Gauron with a mission which takes stock – the report has been given and is of course at your disposal – of the situation of intermittents and which is studying the conditions under which we can leave the white year, a mechanism which had been decided by the President of the Republic and which has placed almost 1 billion euros at the disposal of the world of culture. Since 1 March 2020, the White Year allows part of the 120,000 intermittents who could not have justified 507 hours of work due to the health crisis to continue to receive unemployment compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u86	You're prolonging it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u87	André Gauron's report is clear and his diagnosis is very important: as of 31 August, 75% of the intermittents – and perhaps a little more – will be re-admitted to the 507-hour device. The rights of the vast majority of them will therefore be extended. Even if we do nothing, the white year as decided by the President of the Republic, as well as the existence in the system of several safety nets for those who have not reached 507 hours, guarantee compensation to all intermittents. However, as health restrictions have heavily affected the sector, some would be protected for a short period of time or less. It is therefore necessary to provide for a follow-up to the white year. Several scenarios are on the table: a safety net arrangement, a 16-month solution with two parts – an extension and adjustments – or a one-year extension. The last two options have both advantages and disadvantages. Consultation is therefore under way with all the social partners concerned; work continues and I am mobilised to ensure that the most suitable solution is chosen and that it is accompanied by strong measures to support artistic employment, in this context of recovery. I also want significant measures to be taken in favour of young people, the so-called first-entrants. The pandemic must not reduce their professional opportunities or undermine the artistic capabilities of the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u88	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u89	Minister, culture is essential. It is because it is part of the very definition of humanity: human beings distinguish themselves from other animals in that they are a cultured being. More than ever, in this time when we cannot go out, culture could allow an escape. Yet, for many months now, cultural institutions have been closed, museums, cinemas, theatres and theatres, and exhibition venues for artists-authors are waiting to be opened. It was only in great pain that bookstores and video game stores were able to remain open. However, the risk of contamination in cultural places is very low. A date was announced: May 19. Again, the Government has not anticipated much. Many cultural events require great preparation and cannot be organized without earlier notice. The vagueness persists: will this date be national or territorialized? What will be the protocols in force? Test concerts were held in Spain as early as December; in France, we are six months late and the first would be organised only in May. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] How will institutions be able to live on a scale of 35%, knowing that the financial balance of these rooms is often precarious? How will spectators be selected, especially for rooms that have subscribers? Will the first arrival be the first served, or can a rolling system be introduced? Culture should not, as always, be the variable for adjusting budgets and the "whatever it costs" should stop at its door.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u90	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u91	It cannot be said that culture has been the variable for adjusting government policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u92	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u93	On the contrary, I have obtained a massive increase in budgets, to a level never seen in many years. You're asking very specific questions. I can tell you that the gauges we have fixed are precautionary gauges, which will be lifted by 1 July. There will then be no further limitation and if the spectators are there, the threshold of profitability of cultural establishments – which is not the same for those who are subsidized, of course, and who reason according to other economic models – can be reached. Before that date, they will in any case be able to resume their activity, even with reduced gauges. It should be pointed out that in our country, theatre and cultural venues are heavily supported by the public authorities – the state but also the local and regional authorities, whom I want to greet and who have accompanied us in these steps. Aid is therefore very important. The sector is very diverse and I recognize that there may be what is commonly called holes in the snowshoe, but I have made every effort during this period to limit the difficulty of understanding all the situations. That's how I built a "artist-author plan" – you mentioned the subject – that mobilizes an additional €22 million for these professionals. As you can see, we are working in detail to ensure that the entire cultural sector is supported in the best possible way, taking into account all the specificities. We will succeed together in reopening cultural places. We will support them – I gave the figures – either to allow them to adapt or to compensate for their ticketing losses. We are at work, we are acting with cultural professionals and there is no reason to doubt the will of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u94	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u95	The Government, or rather the President of the Republic, has announced a plan to reopen cultural sites. Finally! For too long we have been deprived of live entertainment, cinema, expression and cultural encounters. But the conditions for reopening, while curfew will initially persist, the gauges will be incomplete and traffic jams are emerging, will not allow all professionals to start working again. As a first step, it is perhaps only one in four workers who will be affected and young people are at risk of being among those who will have the most difficulties. A recovery and accompaniment plan is therefore needed, with funding of at least EUR 500 million to boost activity and employment in the sector. Such a plan begins with the maintenance of social rights; I am of course thinking of the shameful reform of unemployment insurance, which reduces the rights and access to the rights of more than 1 million people, but also of the conclusions of the Gauron report, which you have just mentioned and for whom – if we have read correctly – without prolonging the white year for intermittents, there cannot be, even in the event of a vigorous recovery, a viable solution. Uncertainty must be removed. The recovery plan must also aim at a greater opening of the spaces by means of spring and summer initiatives, allowing more representations in compliance with sanitary instructions, in the open air or under capital, by means of damping devices taking into account the situation – the festivals have been mentioned but they are not the only ones concerned. Such a plan must have priority employment and target all structures, all companies and not just the most installed; Nor should he forget the artists-authors. We are also concerned about your three-month whistle release. A plan that responds to the exceptional situation and restores momentum and momentum would be needed. The movement that has spread in the theatres of France calls for a cultural renaissance and shows how much a collective construction involving the world of culture and society is necessary. Are you aware of the concerns that continue to arise in the short and medium term?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u96	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u97	Mr President, you are right to point out how much we have missed culture, or at least some parts of culture. But I cannot let it be said that culture is dying or that we are witnessing the death of culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u98	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u99	Throughout 2020, bookstore sales have been magnificent. The phonographic industry, which plays a key role in culture, recorded higher turnover in 2020 than in 2019. There have been film shoots and performances captures, we have allowed rehearsals and shootings; the artists-authors were helped by the plan that we put at their disposal so that they could continue to create, to produce; we have set up the Culturebox channel...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u100	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u101	It sucks, Culturebox!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u102	... to allow everyone to have access to shows while waiting for places of culture to reopen. You are advocating a EUR 500 million support plan, but we are there! When we add up the aid that will be deployed for culture – general, transversal and dedicated aids – the sums are quite considerable. At the beginning of 2021 alone, we mobilized an additional 2 billion for culture! I would almost say that you are playing small arms, Mr. Member, with 500 million euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u103	500 million euros more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u104	We are actually going to put a lot more money into the world of culture to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u105	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u106	If cultural professionals have been mobilizing for several months, it is to demand the reopening of closed cultural places and to protest against the choice of the Government and the President of the Republic to sacrifice culture during these long months. We have supported and continue to support the movements of occupation of theatres, but also the rallies and demonstrations that also call for the withdrawal of the reform of unemployment insurance. The President of the Republic announced a three-phase plan for the reopening of cultural sites from 19 May. We had long waited for this announcement that the actors and actors of culture were demanding and hoping. However, you must hear that they are also asking for a recovery plan and many devices. You've engaged in consultations, you say. You have certainly received actors and actresses from culture on a few occasions, but they still have a lot of questions waiting to be answered, the main one being about the intermittents of the show and the extension of the white year. Tonight, Madam Minister, we would like to know whether you choose the first or second option of the Gauron report for these thousands of performers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u107	There are three of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u108	If you prefer a third option, please describe it rather than repeat what the President of the Republic has said to the regional press. We have a debate in Parliament at a time when thousands of entertainers are waiting for answers. Tonight may be a chance to bring them. It would also be very useful for the Government to explain to cultural professionals how the reopening and gauges indicated would relate to curfew. Qualified as dry by professionals, this reopening comes at the end of the season of cultural establishments, which will cause a traffic jam. The recovery plan could be accompanied by initiatives during the summer. It must also be addressed to young professionals of culture if we do not want a generation of sacrificed culture to be added to the sacrificed culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u109	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u110	Whether the world of culture has experienced great difficulties, suffering, anxiety and frustration, I do not ignore it: I have shared them and I understand them. We have remedied this in the best possible way in a health context that is still extremely worrying. We have planned this opening and the related protocols in consultation with the professionals so that they can prepare for it. Far from being a courtesy meeting, this consultation allowed for serious collaborative work. In this regard, I would like to acknowledge the spirit of responsibility of cultural professionals. They have understood and accepted certain constraints, in particular the limited gauges – albeit very temporarily – that will allow the system to rise in power. The film professionals, whom I met a few days ago, told me that they understood the limitations in gauges and also in the sale of confectionery, an important element of the economic balance of the cinemas. I really want to pay tribute to their sense of responsibility. On intermittance, I have already provided answers. From the Gauron report, we must also consult the trade unions and professional organisations, which are called the social partners in the world of culture, in order to act as best as possible. There are differences in assessment and assessment. I await the conclusions of these meetings because I am extremely respectful of social dialogue. I am surprised, moreover, that you are asking me for an answer this evening when this consultation has not taken place. I don't have the same idea of social dialogue as you do, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u111	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u112	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u113	Preserving cultural diversity is a priority, and more than €9 billion have been made available to support culture since the beginning of the crisis. The President of the Republic confirmed the reopening of the cultural sites from 19 May. It is a priority for the cultural sector which must find the audiences for which it creates and occurs, as well as for the French who look forward to regaining the richness of our cultural diversity and our art of living. Beyond the urgent need for the whole sector to anticipate its resumption, beyond the question of openness or closure, the question arises of public access to cultural places and the diversity of these audiences. The cultural policy of "go towards" allowing the diversification of the public was abruptly interrupted by the health crisis. There is, however, a risk of a sharp break between cultural places still too intimidating and priority audiences with whom it is difficult to build trust. Artistic and cultural education (EAC) is an essential vehicle for emancipation. The horizon of the exit from crisis should therefore be accompanied by the generalization of this education so that every child in our country has a cultural path to school. We cannot allow our relationship to the arts, artists and cultural practice to rest on chance alone. If the school does not ensure democratic access to art and culture, then it is the social logics that will prevail in the sense of inequalities and house arrest. Because the crisis prevents culture from playing its usual role in our lives, it is more than ever a time to re-examine its place in our society, both to rethink our cultural models, to reposition artists at the heart of a society project and to redefine culture for what it is: a social object. In particular, we must encourage those who continue at all costs to live art and culture. Minister, what place do you intend to give to priority audiences in the calendar for reopening cultural places? Could it not be possible, at the same time as their reopening to the general public, to provide for new privileged access arrangements for children, students and families who are furthest away from them? Will this reopening be an opportunity to rethink our cultural policies and make ABC the main tool of emancipation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u114	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u115	You are asking, dear Aurore Bergé, the question of artistic and cultural education, which is of paramount importance even if it is not entirely linked to the opening and functioning of places of culture. The resumption of cultural activities is linked with the reopening of places of culture where all audiences are obviously welcome, as cultural institutions are keen to offer programming adapted to each one of them. The "cultural summer" operation, which I wanted to renew this year, will make it possible to meet people throughout the country, especially those who are furthest from the cultural offer. I have asked the Regional Directorates for Cultural Affairs (DRAC) to pay particular attention to projects aimed at the priority areas of city policy and rural areas, encouraging artists to come and organize events there. Last summer, this operation had given rise to extraordinary experiences and exchanges for both audiences and artists. You are right: recovery must lead us to accelerate our policy of cultural democratization. Artistic and cultural education is one of the Government's priorities, notably through the "100% ABC Objective" label. Arts and cultural education has been severely affected by the health crisis, but teachers and artists who have been able to intervene in schools throughout the past few months have deployed a great deal of energy. These artists found an opportunity to show their art and communicate. With the reopening of cultural venues, school trips and artistic education activities will resume in museums and theatres. With Jean-Michel Blanquer, I will obviously be careful that young students can quickly rediscover the emotions generated by visiting cultural places. As part of its now very close generalisation for 18-year-olds,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u116	Please conclude, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u117	... we are working on the declination of the Pass culture for all students from the fourth class. I'm gonna stick to this because the president's calling me to order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u118	It's my duty, Madam Minister. Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u119	Although the minister and several colleagues have already said this, we must repeat: support for culture, particularly for live performances, has been exceptional since the beginning of the crisis. It is thanks to these aids, unique in the world by their amount and relevance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u120	History!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u121	...that the actors of culture are still alive and ready to restart. The Prime Minister has just given them a perspective, but there is still much more to be done. The Prime Minister announced that the ticketing losses associated with the reduced gauges would be offset. The various compensation funds, endowed by the State and implemented by the National Music Centre (CNM) or the Association pour le soutien du théâtre privé (ASTP), could not fully demonstrate their effectiveness due to the closure of the theatres on 30 October. However, it was found that the ASTP's gauge compensation is much lower, sometimes in a ratio of one to ten, than that of the NJC. This is counter-intuitive because theatrical creations are more expensive than concerts or solo shows. Some rooms have even deprogrammed the first ones to program the second ones, which is obviously not desirable. It should also be noted that the NJC compensation fund has been completely exhausted while the shows have not taken place, while the NJC compensation fund has hardly been consumed. There seems to be a need for recalibration. Madam Minister, will the mechanisms for compensating for ticketing losses be revived with the reopening of cultural sites this month? If so, will their terms and conditions be reviewed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u122	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u123	Madam Member, unfortunately I am obliged to contradict you: to date, the appropriations of the ASTP have been consumed. Depending on the needs of the sector, we will reload these calibrated funds at a time of crisis. More than anyone else, the living spectacle was terribly affected by the crisis. Artists will find their audience again, but the reduced gauges remain a major concern for professionals, many of whom you have shared with me. It should be remembered that the life span of these gauges will be limited to a few weeks, the time to re-start the sector and to reach the level of 65%, which will allow some theatres to regain economic viability. Some theatre professionals have told us, in the tone of humour that I take with great care given the sufferings endured by the sector, that they would like to achieve a 65 per cent room filling rate at each performance. In any case, the rooms will find a complete gauge from the beginning of July. I am aware that this is a gradual recovery, under duress, which will cause economic difficulties. For private theatre, the 35% gauge will pose serious problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u124	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u125	Some of its representatives told me that they would not resume until early September, especially since summer is usually the season for the closure of theatres, with the public turning to other cultural events. We will accompany them if they feel that they cannot operate their establishment in the best way possible. Be assured that we will not let them down, no matter what choice they make.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u126	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u127	The cinemas have been closed since the beginning of the health crisis, that is, for more than 200 days. The economic situation is difficult for the entire film industry: producers, distributors and operators. The seventh art, however, is essential and we must protect it. The cross-cutting support measures adopted in this House have helped to support and revive this sector, which is particularly affected by the crisis. Film production continued when conditions permitted, always in strict compliance with health protocols. Here I would like to greet all the French cinema stakeholders who demonstrate an extraordinary resilience to this unprecedented situation. The reopening of the cinemas is imminent, eagerly awaited by a whole industry as well as by the spectators, but its conditions still have to be specified. Professionals are particularly concerned about the effect of curfew on evening sessions, possible territorial reopening on film distribution, and the introduction of a gauge to limit attendance. Minister, can you tell us what will be the terms, the constraints of reopening the cinemas and what will be the financial accompaniment to compensate for their impact on the ticket office? At the same time, the closure of the cinemas has led to an accumulation of films: so far we have more than 400 French and foreign feature films waiting to be broadcast. This "wall" of films raises concerns about the risk of traffic jamming at the upcoming reopening of the theatres. The impatience of the reopening leaves room for apprehension: the prospect of a saturation of film releases makes fear of very strong competition between those with small budgets and those with large budgets, at the same time with a large turnover. So, what measures are you considering to fluidize the release of the films? We had the opportunity to discuss these issues when you came to Limoges last February. I know that you are preparing this reopening that we have all been waiting for for many weeks and I know your determination to make French cinema live: in your action, you can count on our support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u128	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u129	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] The French film industry is perhaps the last in Europe thanks to the quality of French film directors, producers and actors, but also to the massive support provided by the State through the operator of the Ministry of Culture, the CNC. One day, a film professional told me that he had received nothing from the Ministry of Culture and that all the help had been provided by the CNC. I allowed myself to remind my interlocutor that the CNC was an operator of the Ministry of Culture. And it was almost 1 billion euros that were brought to the French cinema that was able to continue producing films. Of course, we are facing a certain traffic jam. But what would it have been if I hadn't allowed the shootings and if, for lack of massive funding for the CNC again, we were in front of a movie desert? So we have to deal not with the shortage, which could have happened, but with a overflow. In addition, of course, we will continue to compensate for the difficulties inherent in the limitation of gauges. [[Laughs]] The delay taken by the great American blockbusters represents an opportunity because it will leave us an important space. We can thus start with Albert Dupontel's film with the terribly evocative title: Adieulescons. I say this with all due respect to this assembly: this title is not dedicated to anyone here. We will also be able to see Nicolas Bedos' OSS 117 with Jean Dujardin, who is due to be released on August 4, as well as many other French films. [[Ms. FrédériqueDumasproteste]] I referred to the opinion of the Autorité de la concurrence, which allows for derogations from competition rules and gives the possibility of establishing a concerted timetable. Professionals are confident in managing this case in the best way possible. My concerns are therefore limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u130	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u131	Brittany is a land of festivals. Every year, the summer is rhythmic by these events that each has their own soul. Of the best known, Les Vieilles ploughs, in Carhaix, at Landerneau's Kann al Loar, these festivals celebrate all cultures. The Old Plows attract 270,000 festivalgoers, all generations combined, seduced by its eclectic programming and warm atmosphere. Its organization is based on the remarkable work of nearly 7,000 volunteers. And I could quote others, such as the Noise Festival in Landerneau or the End of the World Festival in Crozon. In 2020, the momentum was interrupted by the pandemic. The organizers had a dark year. This is also the case for all companies that develop the premises, which bring light and sound as Audiolite to Guipavas. Desperate to live, artists and technicians, all are affected. But these people need more than ever to produce and create. You announced it in February, Minister: there will be a festival season in 2021. These words gave hope again, alas quickly darkened by new restrictions and the uncertainties they gave rise to. Tonight, I am the voice of this cultural sector, which is festivals, and it is their alarm cry that I am launching here. Festivals represent all the arts, from traditional music to electro music, from theatre to dance, from cinema to comics. Cultural Vivier spread throughout the French territory, the sector is still waiting and festivalgoers are orphaned. The pleasures are forbidden to them. Nearly 14 million French people have received at least one first injection of vaccine, which opens up prospects. Then the world of festivals is ready and he will tell you soon in Bourges during Act II of the general states of festivals. A festival is not improvised; It is now that we need clear answers. Will you announce different opening conditions for different types of festivals and territories? I know, Madam Minister, that you are doing everything you can to protect our culture and the actors who lead it, but today, organizers, artists, technicians and festivalgoers only ask one question: when is happiness?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u132	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u133	You are right to recall that Brittany is a land of festivals. I intend to go to the Old Plows in mid-July. I will also take the opportunity to go to the Redon Musicales and the La Gacilly Photo Festival – let's not forget photography and photographers. I will travel to all French regions to attend very different festivals: film festivals, drama, contemporary music, classical music... The wealth of festivals is immense. Big and small festivals are restarting. They now have visibility. As I mentioned, the question remains of the current music festivals, where the audience is standing, which pose problems of health security – no one needs to be a great virologist or epidemiologist to realize it. A very specific work has been undertaken. Thanks to vaccination and the improvement of the health situation, we are approaching a period in which reopening is the norm and the majority of festivals can be held this summer. We've already started to accompany them. You have evoked the Old Plows, an iconic festival in Brittany. Its head, Jérôme Tréhorel, decided to make it a sitting festival, which requires materials. Of course, we help these festivals adapt to the situation so that they can take place in the best possible conditions. The arrangements for the resumption of festivals will therefore comply with the standards of each category and, as of 19 May, several of them will be able to welcome the public. I will of course be in Bourges at the end of June to accompany the second edition of the general states of the festivals, the festivals being one of the priorities of my political action in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u134	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u135	We lived sadly in the summer of 2020 in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. So we look forward to finding the festivals that make our region's soul and dynamism. In Aix-en-Provence, the International Center for the Arts on the Move reinvented its Circus Days and Nights to make it an outdoor festival and dazzle new spectators, tourists and Aixois for two months. This continued activity was done at the expense of the considerably reduced own ticketing resources. While cultural actors now have visibility for the resumption of their activities, a major point remains to be clarified: what will be the economic model for all cultural places that will not operate at 100% of their capacity? Firstly, as with all administratively closed companies, what will be the system of exiting aid? Will they be smoothed in time? For the living spectacle is a matter of long time, between creation, production and diffusion; Therefore, between recovery and its effective economic development, the actors of culture – I am thinking in particular of private cultural companies – will need the support of the State. Then, have your services, Madam Minister, begun to work together and to develop a timetable for the reduction of health protocols? Operators of cultural venues need to know what levels of activity they will be able to achieve from the beginning of September next. What will happen to private theatres and other cultural venues with a bar or restaurant? Will they be able to reopen them for their spectators or will they be aligned with the diet of classic restaurants and bars? Finally, I will mention the intermittents of the show and the audiovisual, which were effectively protected from the first confinement with the introduction of a white year which should end on 31 August 2021. On 21 April, the mission chaired by André Gauron gave you its report on the aftermath of the white year, concluding a gradual return to normalcy in the year 2022. The report puts forward two lines of action for the period after 31 August: the adjustment of the conditions for the examination of the rights to 1 September or the extension of the duties without review to 1 September. What is your view on this issue?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u136	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u137	That must be the last question...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u138	Members of the Republican Group have not yet spoken, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u139	Of course, you always have to keep the best for the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u140	You know the evolution of the gauges: 35%, 65% and 100%. On the other hand, there is no question of interrupting the protective measures. Let us be clear: we can only succeed in reopening the venues throughout the year 2021 – I am certainly moving a little further – avoiding the "stopandgo" which we mentioned earlier, if we respect very precisely these protocols: hand washing, wearing the mask, aeration of the places, physical distance between the participants in a show. If we let go of the guard, it would be quite damaging. I come to the economic activities that accompany certain events and whose weight can be substantial – I am thinking of the sale of confectionery in cinemas but also, in cultural places and festivals, in bars and restaurants. There is no reason why there should be double standards between restaurants subject to the usual standards, if I may say so, and restaurants adjacent to a cultural event. The sale of confectionery inside cinemas will be prohibited initially, but if a theatre has an outdoor restaurant, the latter will be able to continue its activity. Similarly, for such an activity which would be at the heart of the economic model of a festival, the same gauges, the same modalities will be imposed on the organizers. It seems to me that this is quite manageable. It is well understood that agglutining consumers at the foot of a bar in a festival is a factor of contamination. If, on the other hand, one can consume on tables or in spaces where the physical distance between people is respected, there will be no problem in maintaining the activity in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u141	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u142	The culture will come out of the freezer and end the vitrification to which it was reduced. Finally! Good news! What a waste of time! And that disastrous messages from regular intervals to the world of culture considered non-essential. It should be remembered that bookstores had to wait until the second confinement to finally integrate the list of essential shops or that museums, monuments, castles, parks and gardens had remained desperately closed while they were rarely crowded and could hardly promote the emergence of outbreaks of contamination. At the same time, elsewhere in Europe, some places remained open. Two hundred days of closing the places of culture, this is what our country has experienced – a sad French exception. Nevertheless, I take note of the timetable for the gradual dismantling and reopening of the places of culture, announced on 29 April by the Head of State and confirmed by you, Madam Minister. I look forward to the presentation – finally! – a calendar that we have constantly demanded, as well as a method, visibility, anticipation, in short, a horizon. But this calendar comes very late – perhaps too late for some: unsubsidized private theatres will obviously not get away with it and, in general, many uncertainties and concerns remain. I want to go back to the live show, especially the festivals. The organizers of these major summer events are waiting for details on the concrete implementation of the announced measures. There is the question of the end of the gauges as at 30 June and, at the same time, the maximum limit to be set according to the local situation and the nature of the event. I am also thinking of the lack of information on the precise conditions for organizing the standing concerts. There is also the question of the health pass, to which others have referred: how, in concrete terms, will this pass, which will, for example, make it possible to access concerts of more than 1000 people from 30 June onwards, be deployed? All these very specific issues continue to be of concern to professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u143	Please close, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u144	I would like to appeal to you to ask one last question, Mr. Chairman: a test concert at the Accor Arena is scheduled for May 29. Is its funding closed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u145	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u146	I do not think it necessary to reopen the debate on "essential" or "non-essential" sectors. Culture is obviously essential. No one ever doubted the Government. This term has been used to describe daily subsistence businesses. There was no question of suggesting that culture was not essential. So let's get out of this debate, which I think is quite fake. In the same way, we have not "refused" to reopen the places of cultivation: it is the health constraints and the emergence of variants with high levels of contamination that have led the Government to take necessary precautionary measures. I note with interest, moreover, that those very people who called for the unrestricted and immediate reopening of places of culture – I am not talking about you, Madam Member – are sometimes the first to ask us now whether we are not opening too soon, whether we have taken all the precautions, etc. All right. The controversy is always interesting, because it opens the debate. I note that, finally, France has not been isolated in the application of measures to close cultural places: for those who wish to take the trouble of studying what has happened in Europe, the closure of cultural places has been massive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u147	The other countries reopened earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u148	I would like to keep the figures at your disposal: 85% of the European population has been involved. The closure of cultural sites has been gradually lifted and remains the majority in several European countries, such as Ireland, Great Britain, Germany, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, Slovakia, Sweden and Denmark. France is not isolated: the closure of cultural places has been the prerogative of the majority of European populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u149	Thank you for closing, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u150	You're asking for a calendar. It's fixed. As for the details of the festivals, I have already given a lot of information on the occasion of this discussion. We continue the consultations with the various organizers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u151	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u152	For more than six months now, museums, theatres, cinemas, operas and theatres have had to close their doors in order to respect the sanitary measures you have taken, often in an illogical manner and without prospects – at least until last week: six months that cultural life is set under bells, that actors in the sector can no longer work, that amateurs can no longer repeat and that the public is deprived of culture. While the rapid and controlled reopening of these places of sharing and discovery is necessary to revive the professional cultural sector and the consumption of French culture, it is also necessary to anticipate and prepare the resumption of the cultural practice of amateurs. I also have an emotional thought for this sector, which is the great victim of the pandemic. Without an effective strategy to enable cultural associations to resume their activities, the Government is at risk of a sharp reduction in their numbers, resulting in job losses, but also, and above all, a erosion of the social link. That is why it is essential, and even vital, to revive the practice of amateurs. Amateur culture brings culture to life in France. The associations create a dynamic even in the villages and are often at the origin of the aptitudes for cultural teachings, especially among young people who have suffered terribly from the pandemic and who will find it difficult to recover psychologically. This is why it is just as necessary to open cinemas as to allow local elected officials to make available their municipal halls, which serve as rehearsal rooms for the village harmony orchestra or for the local theatre troupe. It is obviously not a question of opposing professionals and amateurs, but of recalling that it is more necessary than ever to pay particular attention to the culture of amateurs. I also have a thought for arts schools, especially music schools: parents of students do not understand why children can't take classes in the face-to-face while schools are open. [[Mr. Jacques Cattin applauds]] Finally, I want to make sure that the government's strategy for reopening places of culture will allow amateurs to resume their cultural activities in the best possible conditions, which will require exceptional support. I am also calling for the establishment of a cultural emergency fund to finance associations of cultural practice as amateurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u153	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u154	I will start with the end of your remarks by answering you about artistic teaching. This point has been raised by several of your colleagues and many local elected officials are questioning this issue. President Bruno Studer asked me about this himself. I am obviously very attached to the practices of amateurs, of whom you were right to report that they had been severely affected by the epidemic. They are important vectors of cultural democratization. Artistic education structures – conservatories and schools of music and dance – are very often the first place of access to culture for many young people. I am aware of the efforts already made by these institutions to ensure the continuation of distance learning and to ensure that it is of high quality. The reopening schedule announced by the President of the Republic is a first step towards the resumption of cultural activities. In the case of institutions receiving public type R or L, places of artistic education and conservatories, the process of reopening will be differentiated according to the activities and the public. The conservatories will reopen of course on 19 May. They will take up the lessons for the audiences already welcomed before the reconstitution. I do not know why, like a headless duck, circulates the rumor that the underage students were not welcomed into the conservatory. Of course, they were: the teaching of non-contact dance for minors alone as well as lyrical singing in individual practice were ensured. From 9 June onwards, we will be able to resume the teaching of contactless dance for major students. From 1 July, the teaching of dance will resume fully, including with contact, as well as lyrical singing in collective practice. There will therefore be no further restrictions on that date. This is the timetable for conservatories and places of instruction. I confirm that the pandemic has played us tricks, honourable Member: the appearance of variants at the end of 2020 and at the beginning of 2021 has led us to adapt our health strategy and to delay the reopening of cultural places. Believe that we are deeply sorry and saddened. On the other hand, I refute the idea that the French were deprived of culture: they continued to have cultural practices. It's very happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u155	Mr. Jacques Cattin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u156	First of all, we are very pleased to see you again in full shape, Madam Minister. I would like to draw your attention to the situation of places of culture, especially music halls, which have been stopped for more than a year. The Government's assistance has enabled these institutions and their staff to be supported. Our fellow citizens, this has already been stressed, aspire to find cinemas, theatres, museums and all other places of conviviality. That is why the reopening of all these places is a priority. For this restart phase to be successful, very strict and detailed health protocols must be developed to allow the reopening of closed areas. Like the great Parisian establishments, I have the chance to count in my constituency one of the few provincial cabarets, the Paradis des Sources, in Soultzmatt, Alsace – an establishment to discover! With a view to reopening all health measures to ensure the safety of the public, artists and staff, this institution has drawn up a specification, in close consultation with the event and health professionals. It is based on a meticulous and systematic disinfection of the showroom. An adaptation of the rhythm is also planned, with the frequency of performances to be spaced and the number of sessions limited to one per night. Personnel should be systematically detected by regular salivary tests confirmed by a PCR test. The terms of access to the show – ticketing and online reservations – are precisely defined. The public will be tested systematically: for vaccinated people, a negative PCR test of less than 24 hours will be required to access the show, while for others, this test will be doubled by an on-site antigenic test. Access will be filtered and social distancing respected at and within the facility. Here you will see a demonstration of Alsatian rigour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u157	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u158	The direction of circulation will be defined, the wearing of the mask will be required and the administration of hydroalcoholic gel will be mandatory. Shop and cloakroom services will be suspended and intermissions removed. The placement of spectators will be systematic and the snack and catering services will be strictly supervised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u159	Thank you, Mr. Cattin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u160	In view of the specificities of a cabaret, and subject to compliance with the measures set out above, can such a device be validated by the prefect concerned upon submission of an application for opening by the establishment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u161	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u162	It is with pleasure that the owner of the place, Mr. Christophe Gonnet, his team and I will receive you so that you can see the respect of these measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u163	[[Laughs]] We heard your invitation, Mr. Cattin. We'll all come! The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u164	I salute the Alsatian rigor,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u166	...but also the humour, benevolence and conviviality of Alsatian cultural places. You are right to point out that cabarets and music halls are an integral part of the world of culture: it is very important to recall this, because some people sometimes dispute it. The live show, however, includes current music, classical music, operas, theatres, circus, street show and cabarets. Indeed, this sector is perhaps, of all the live show, the one that is most affected by the crisis, because both music halls and cabarets depend on restoration. They are subject to a double constraint: the one imposed on places of culture and shows, and the fact that the public eats while watching the show. Everyone understands how difficult it is to manage these two aspects and to meet this dual set of standards. I would like to point out that these actors have been taken over by the Ministry of Culture and that this sector is probably the sector most affected by the aid funds available. He was accompanied. You can challenge it, but the numbers are there – I'll keep them at your disposal. You will understand that at the present stage of the pandemic, the virus still circulating very actively, it is difficult to imagine, from the first phase of reopening as I described it, that cabarets and music halls can reopen, given the constraints that are theirs and the way in which their activities are carried out. This, of course, means continuing to help them. It may be necessary to wait for a further step back from the pandemic to consider a full reopening of this type of cultural place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u167	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u168	I would like to associate my colleague Brigitte Kuster with this question. Minister, I want to say, "At last! Indeed, it will be more than seven months since cultural institutions dropped the curtain and our fellow citizens were deprived of cultural activities. Fortunately, during these long months of endless waiting, you have released more than EUR 1 billion of aid for the cultural sector. While this economic management of the crisis is to be welcomed, too often the Government's management vision gave the impression that culture was not a priority. For France, a country of Enlightenment and culture, this is very regrettable. This vision has resulted in many inconsistent and misunderstood measures by our compatriots. First of all, it was forbidden to go to the theatre, the cinema or the museum while public transport, often crowded, was circulating and no study had shown that it was more dangerous to go to a cultural place than to take the metro, as I had the opportunity to tell you during questions to the Government; Then, your 5,000-person ratio for festivals seems arbitrary and is not based on any scientific study; Finally, the deconfinity of culture was constantly rejected while our European friends, like Spain or Austria, made the choice of a controlled and controlled reopening. Let us hope that this series of cascading coucas is behind us and that, this time, the promise of the reopening of the places of culture will be kept. As professionals in the cultural sector are ready to welcome the public again in accordance with a strict health protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u170	Minister, we have been repeating this since the beginning of the crisis and the containment of culture: the actors in the world of culture need visibility. If the culture can be defused within two weeks, there is an urgent need to specify the conditions: territorial differentiation, curfew maintained at twenty-one hours, health care, standing shows, conditions for fixing gauges, nightclubs in the expectation... These are unresolved issues that prevent professionals from projecting in the medium and long term. Madam Minister, can you finally enlighten them, please? Finally, can you answer my colleague Constance Le Grip's question on the May 29th concert-test: is the funding closed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u172	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u173	Indeed, honourable Member, our knowledge of the pandemic and the way the virus is contaminated has given rise to debate, and you will admit that the controversy has emerged, as has progress, from the scientific community itself, which has often delivered very contradictory messages to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u175	In a later moment, I think a filmmaker will look at the statements that have been made on television sets by the best epidemiologists...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u176	And the government spokesmen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u177	... without anyone offending them, or referring them to their mistakes or approximations. Thus, the evaluation was extremely difficult. We have been confronted with a pandemic of which we absolutely did not know the nature, and I want to welcome the involvement of each other, which in a year has enabled us to discover and market a vaccine now offered to hundreds of millions of people around the world. At least we must salute that. We can find inconsistent decisions. This is not my case, because they have adapted to the evolution of the pandemic and to the discovery of new ways of contamination and completely unknown variants. If one can curl in the charms of aposteriori lucidity, the steering was in reality extremely complicated. Of course, I would like to make available to you the comparatives that have been drawn up in Europe, but it must be borne in mind that the health conditions are very different from one country to another and that we cannot compare a country where the pandemic occurs with an incidence rate of less than 100 per 100,000 inhabitants with ours. There is, of course, a need to adapt the policy of reopening cinemas and theatres to the pandemic. It must also be borne in mind that some countries have had to close them after reopening them, and that the victory against the virus is never final. Other countries simply chose to remain open because they did not want to take on the extremely heavy accompaniment that we have given to the world of culture. All of this has led to a variety of policies, but I believe that, in the end, the precautionary and supportive policy we have pursued – a precaution towards the public and support for artists – was the best.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u178	Thank you, Minister, for your presence and your answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1259.u179	Next meeting at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
