ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the conservation and sustainable use of the ocean (No 4528).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u2	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u3	[[Applause on all benches]] On this international day to combat violence against women, the group Agir Together proposes to those who wish to wear a pin's to mark our solidarity and our commitment to this struggle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u4	In the general debate, Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are submitting to you a trans-party motion for a resolution aimed at promoting an ambitious international agreement for the protection and sustainable management of the seas and oceans, which are now under serious threat. I welcome and thank our colleague Jimmy Pahun, from the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, for the initiative of this text co-signed by more than 200 Members from all the groups in our House. It is a major issue: the survival of marine and terrestrial biodiversity, the very survival of humanity. We will never repeat enough that the ocean is the first lung on the planet: it produces 50% of the oxygen we breathe. It is also the first climate regulator, as it captures 90% of the heat emitted by pollution and absorbs nearly a third of the CO contained in the atmosphere. The ocean is also the mother nurse for more than a billion people, whose first protein intake it represents. To these eco-benefits are added all the services rendered by the ocean in economic and social terms. Indeed, from the large continental coastal cities of Europe or Asia to the smallest islands in the Pacific, the ocean is a source of recreation and escape, which are attractive factors for the economic development of many coastal territories. It is therefore of course a source of employment, generating more than 200 million direct jobs, if only for the fisheries sectors. Finally, the ocean is our first link to the rest of the world. It has always brought people to new horizons, new conquests, it is an integral part of history and 90 per cent of world trade passes by sea. All these activities, whether recreational or commercial, must be carried out with respect for these large spaces and their biodiversity. As we live together on earth, we must do so at sea. We could spend a day talking about ocean services. You will understand, these functions are vital to our survival. But it must be noted that many anthropogenic activities – first of all on land, but also at sea – pose a serious threat to this immense wealth of biodiversity. These facts are supported by numerous reports, including from the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which alerts us to the consequences of our activities, which are responsible for the climate change we are experiencing. The effects of this are already visible and felt: warming of the seas and oceans, causing phenomena of bleaching of corals; rise in sea level due to melting of ice; further acidification and deoxygenation. All these phenomena are the signal of the overheating of our ocean system, aggravated by pollution of plastic or chemical origin: discharge of hydrocarbons, loss of containers, overfishing or illegal immersion. We are clearly asphyxiating the first lung on the planet, looting our foster mother and considering this space as the trash of humanity. It's time to change paradigm. By confronting these challenges with reality, we understand that it is urgent and beneficial to commit more strongly to the protection of the ocean as a whole. Our responsibility is all the more important as France has the second largest maritime area in the world: 11 million square kilometres, 97% of which are overseas. As such, we recall the progress that the Government and Parliament have made during this legislature. We have decided on many actions, starting with the inclusion of the sea and the oceans at the very heart of our Constitution. Unfortunately, this constitutional bill has not been successful, and I hope that we will complete it in the next Parliament. In 2019, we were one hundred and ten parliamentarians on all sides to relay the call "Ocean well common", launched by an alliance of committed personalities. That same year, MEPs unanimously called for an immediate ban on electric fishing in our territorial waters. In the "climate and resilience" law, we set out in the marble the objective of classifying 30 per cent of the maritime territory as marine protected areas, one third of which are in strong protection. By way of amendment, we have encouraged the creation of a blue carbon programme for the management of our marine areas. Because in addition to creating protected areas, we must guarantee the effective management of these immense spaces. Teaching island, littoral and ultramarine issues will have to be part of the school curriculum. And yesterday, in the Committee on Laws, we adopted an amendment to Bill 3DS – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – to add awareness of natural risks. These encouraging measures concerning our exclusive economic zone (EEZ) must be complemented by a series of coherent actions for the high seas. In fact, states' EEZs cover only 40% of the world's maritime space. We must also act on the remaining 60%. We often talk about seas and oceans, but we only have one shared ocean, and it is borderless. It suffers the same effects in Europe or in the southern hemisphere, in temperate, polar or tropical zones. That is the meaning of this motion for a resolution. First of all, it serves a purpose of protection and preservation. We want to open up the possibility of creating large marine protected areas on the high seas, combined with an innovation plan that will allow us to develop activities for the resilience of our territories. We also advocate a balanced system of benefit-sharing for the future of marine genetic resources. We must implement the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from Their Utilization, for the benefit of the people most vulnerable to this climate change, especially those of island States. Developing countries are the first victims of polluting activities on this planet. Finally, we must put in place an evaluation mechanism. We must be transparent, consistent with our public policies, capable of self-criticism, and evaluate our efforts in a way that is harmonized with the rest of the world. That is why the draft agreement on marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction – said BBNJ, for Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdictions – is fundamental. Beyond this agreement, there are three issues that need to be addressed. We need to know these spaces better: we know barely 20% of the ocean floor; We do not fully understand the functions of the ocean as a climate regulator. Better understanding the interactions between the ocean and the climate is also a way to better combat climate change. France has embarked on an extensive research programme, it is absolutely necessary to pursue it and to vote in this direction the future finance bill for 2023. Secondly, there is a need for massive support for innovation, particularly in the field of maritime transport, by encouraging the greening of fleets. I encourage you, at the second reading of the first part of the 2022 Finance Bill, to better support auxiliary vellic propulsion. The high seas is also a major geostrategic issue since global warming will lead to the opening of new maritime routes. [[Applause on all benches]] In conclusion, I would like to quote a famous Pacific and academic thinker, Epeli Hau'ofa, who wrote half a century ago: "We are the ocean, we must awaken to this ancient truth." We all come from the ocean, it's our heritage, our history, our past, but it's also and especially our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u6	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u7	With more than 11 million square kilometres, France has the second largest maritime territory in the world, behind the United States and ahead of Australia, twenty-two times the metropolitan territory. Our maritime territory is scattered between the Pacific Ocean, the southern Indian Ocean and the West Indies, and affects more than 2.6 million of our citizens. France must therefore continue to play a leading role in the protection of marine ecosystems and their rational exploitation. Today, the globalized industry relies on maritime transport and the vast majority of trade and communications flows go through the major maritime routes. The blocking of the Ever Given cargo ship in the Suez Canal last March, interrupting much of the world trade, was an enlightening reminder. The maritime sector accounts for €97 billion in activity and 360,000 jobs, so it is a strategic sector that needs to be supported and encouraged, be it large companies such as our shipyards or shipowners or small innovative companies working to decarbonize maritime transport. For example, marine transport accounts for 2.89% of total global CO emissions in 2018, up from 2.76% in 2012. It could see its impact multiplied by six and reach 17% by 2050. The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will also depend on this sector. Because climate change has multiple consequences for the oceans, won by the intensification of the violence of natural phenomena. They are biological, oceanographic or geographical in nature: reduction of zooplankton and biodiversity in the broad sense, algal proliferation, displacement of certain fish species, warming of the ocean, sea level rise, alteration of currents, melting of glaciers and ice packs, decline of the coastal line due to rising waters, acidification of the seas and reduction of oxygen content in sea water. Faced with these all-embracing changes in our environment and against eurosceptics on all sides, the IDU and independent group defends the rationality of science at a time when society sometimes drifts towards irrational and beliefs. Only scientific knowledge will allow us to better understand what surrounds us and to face the challenges of our time. This motion for a resolution contributes to this. In view of the worrying situation of the oceans, urgent action is needed to limit the damage caused by the evolution of our environment. Unfortunately, our proposals, such as the incentive taxation of plastic, have often been rejected. attached to free navigation and respect for international law, the UDI-I Group also supported France's approach to combat any attempt at unilateral appropriation of maritime areas or territories. As Admiral Prazuck, former Chief of the National Navy, pointed out: "What is not protected is looted, what is looted is disputed. » We therefore wish to pay tribute here to these women and men, both at sea and on land, who work every day, as part of the State's action at sea, to protect these natural spaces and to guarantee our sovereignty. Finally, while we obviously support the United Nations proposal, we also propose that we join the European framework, the ideological foundation of the IDU, in order to launch a concerted and effective action plan, in particular with coastal states, which are for the most part former historical maritime powers. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] For all these reasons, and with particular thought for my two Pacific colleagues, Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, the UDI-I Group will vote without reservation on this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u8	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u9	The oceans, which produce half of our oxygen, regulate the climate and temperature of the Earth. They have long been our best ally in the fight against climate change. Today, this ally is neglected. We're worried because these blue lungs threaten to suffocate. Over the past 70 years, they have played a fundamental regulatory role in the face of global warming. More than 93% of the heat generated by human activities since the 1950s has been absorbed by the oceans. But how long can they continue to assume this function? On this point, there are many uncertainties. One thing is certain, however: the marine environment is finding it increasingly difficult to contain the effects of climate change. We are witnessing an alarming rise in sea level. And the overseas territories are on the front line in the face of this ecological disaster. Some are already seeing their land gradually being snuffed by the waves. Martinique, for example, could lose 5% of its area by 2100 due to the combined effect of erosion and rising waters. As for the French islands of the Pacific, many of them risk being submerged. The warming of the waters also alters the chemistry of the ocean and leads to its acidification. This reduces the ability of marine organisms such as mussels, crustaceans and corals to calcify. It's not anecdotal. While they represent only 1% of the ocean's surface, 25% of marine species depend on them. Their deterioration, as we already know, will have consequences for the essential activities of fisheries and tourism. These activities are also threatened by excessive pollution, including plastic. The Ellen MacArthur Foundation estimates that the oceans could contain more plastic than fish by 2050. But that's not the only problem. Excess fertilizers from sewers and agricultural discharges have also led to a multiplication of low-oxygen areas where most marine life is compromised, resulting in the destruction of some ecosystems. In the face of these alarming findings, a priority must be to protect the ocean. This requires the implementation, at national level, of an ambitious policy to combat global warming and water pollution. On this point, my group has had the opportunity, on numerous occasions, to highlight the shortcomings of government policy. We once again call for greater environmental ambition. It also requires the mobilization of the international community. The ocean is a common good whose protection requires the establishment of a collective framework. In this respect, negotiations within the United Nations to lay the foundations for common governance for the high seas are of great importance. The current system is weak, fragmented and inadequate to respond to the threats now facing us. Like the sponsors of this motion for a resolution, we consider it urgent to revise it. The negotiations have been held back by the health crisis, and we understand that. But the biodiversity crisis is forcing us to act quickly. Negotiations must be completed and an agreement reached to combat the effects of climate change, illegal fishing and overfishing, plastic pollution and habitat loss on the high seas. If we call for speeding up the discussions, we do not lose sight of the need to reach an agreement commensurate with the above-mentioned issues. It is up to the President of the Republic, who has repeatedly presented himself on the international scene as a major advocate of the climate cause, to play a leading role in these negotiations. While the deep seabed accounts for almost half of the earth's surface, France must be at the forefront in defending ambitious environmental protection standards. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Good governance of the great blue is a condition for the future of humanity. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group, convinced of the need for a political surge for the ocean, will vote for this motion for a resolution on the conservation and sustainable management of the oceans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u10	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u11	In the preamble, I would like to take advantage of the review of this text, which deals with the conservation of the ocean, to pay tribute to Jean-Pierre Champion, president of the Fédération française de voile from 1996 to 2017, who was a lover of the public service of sport and sailing, for whom I had the honour of working, and who died last week. For more than 4 billion years, the volume of water on earth has been the same: 1,400 million cubic kilometres, not one liter more or less. The water that we drink, which water our plantations, borders our coastlines, in which we swim and navigate, which composes us and the other species, which, in the form of steam and ice, determines our climate, is the same as the one that the dinosaurs drank. At 97.2%, it is salty. So there's no alternative water. There is no replacement ocean or sea. If, in the decades to come, we treat the oceans as badly as we have treated continents and coastlines, the environmental disaster will only accelerate. Today, the ocean is particularly affected by the effects of climate change: acidification, warming, deoxygenation or rising waters. The sixth IPCC report indicates that some of these changes are unfortunately irreversible for hundreds or thousands of years. On the other hand, France has the second largest maritime area in the world: 11 million square kilometres of exclusive economic zone, 97% of which is overseas. It is therefore present in all the oceans of the world, so that before being a European country, it is a universal country, and first of all, since it is the subject that we are dealing with this morning, an oceanic and maritime country. It should also be borne in mind that France owes 97% to its overseas presence, which should lead us much more to regard the overseas departments and territories as an invaluable opportunity and to ensure that, in return, their populations consider it an invaluable opportunity to belong to the same community of destiny, which requires equal treatment and rights. It seems particularly important to me to say that right now. This situation gives us rights and duties. The rights, or rather the potentials, are obvious. The oceans represent a great opportunity for France. France and Jean-Luc Mélenchon have been saying this for a long time, since several election campaigns. We believe that if we can act ecologically sustainable, then yes, the ocean and the sea are an opportunity for economic development and employment, because our wealth is important. I am thinking of food, fisheries and aquaculture, or energy – renewable marine energy is obviously essential if we are to achieve, as our group wishes, 100% renewable energy. I am also thinking of transport – on this point, the former sailing professional, whom I am pleased to note that today French architect engineers are again developing projects of merchant marine by sailing – ports, construction, construction, construction, depollution or leisure sails. But France must also be at the forefront of the fight for the protection of marine ecosystems and the promotion of sustainable exploitation of their resources. These are our duties, conditioned by our maritime space. As you know, we are in favour of the constitutionalization of a green rule, requiring that we no longer produce or consume more than the earth can absorb. The same applies to the oceans: a blue rule must be constitutionalized. With regard to the wide areas, and in particular the shoals, we must act as we did with Antarctica when we gave this continent, at the time of the Madrid Treaty, the status of a natural reserve dedicated to peace and science – a fight in which France was at the forefront. This text is therefore in the right direction. I thank my friend Jimmy Pahun and Maina Sage for their initiative. Its purpose is to support the ongoing negotiations at the United Nations to lay the foundations for common governance, including the regulation of economic and scientific activities on the high seas. With this motion for a resolution, the aim is also to obtain full participation in the negotiations by all French maritime actors, from the scientific, economic or voluntary world, but also representatives of the overseas or island communities. However, the experience of COP26 must convince us of the need to move towards binding treaties. I agree with the creation of marine protected areas on the high seas, but we must also give ourselves the means to do so. France must set a better example. For my part, I regret that it abstained on the moratorium on deep-sea mining, requested by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, IUCN, in September 2021, but also that we did not devote sufficient resources to research and the protection of maritime space, particularly for operators working in this field. Our group is proposing measures for the future to better meet the demands I have mentioned. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I stress that there are now binding treaties and that they should be respected. I am thinking of the obligation to help people in distress. We would do well not to forget it, neither in the Mediterranean, nor in the English Channel, nor in the Pas-de-Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u12	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u13	I will go straight to the point: the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is in favour of this text, some of which are elected overseas, such as Moetai Brotherson and myself, co-signatories. Indeed, the motion for a resolution defended by our colleagues in the Working Together and MODEM groups, Maina Sage and Jimmy Pahun, is in line with the constitutional bill for the protection of the seas and oceans tabled last September by Karine Lebon and Fabien Roussel. Our group, one third of which is from overseas, is particularly sensitive to the issue of the sustainable conservation of the seas and oceans. Already in July 2018, Huguette Bello's amendment to the constitutional bill for a more representative, responsible and effective democracy, which aimed to include the preservation of the seas and oceans in the Constitution, had been adopted by a majority of deputies. In March 2019, together with 110 other parliamentarians, we also relayed the call of the common ocean association of humanity for a positive understanding of the sustainable management of the oceans. This idea of the common good to be preserved is also mentioned in watermark in the bill creating a legal status of common goods, which will be defended by our colleague Pierre Dharréville in the framework of our parliamentary niche on 2 December next. The text proposed to us today is part of this approach, which brings us together. It invites us to draw the consequences of an obvious fact: while France has the second largest maritime area in the world and has jurisdiction over 11 million square kilometres of EEZ, 97 per cent of which are located in its overseas territories, its maritime economy accounts for only 14 per cent of its GDP and 340,000 jobs. That is to say, this world-wide heritage is undervalued. The text is also useful in highlighting the "minor role that France must play at European and international levels for the sustainable management of the sea". This obligation stems from our status as a great maritime power and from the vital need to put an end to the French decline in the seas and oceans. The motion for a resolution also has the merit of reiterating the importance of "guaranteeing full participation in the negotiation of all French, scientific, economic and associative maritime actors, [in particular] overseas". Finally, at the international level, the signatories of the text called on the Government to "promote the establishment of a maritime development assistance regime, [...] for the benefit, in particular, of island and least developed and developing States". Of which act. All these proposals, we make them our own, because the threats to the oceans are known: global warming and sea level rise, which threaten ecosystems and ultramarine and island populations; the breakdown of the marine food chain and the weakening of coral reefs; the proliferation of plastic waste and invasive algae, such as sargasses in the West Indies, whose economic and health consequences we know; overfishing, as a result of which seven out of ten species would be endangered. We share the objective behind the text. However, questions remain. I am thinking in particular of the lack of ambition for the establishment of a legal treaty on the high seas, or of the contradictions of the European Union, which, while pretending to establish conditions for the exploitation of the mineral resources of the seabed in the international zone, supports the serious environmental damage committed by some countries by exploiting these funds. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Nevertheless, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u14	Mrs. Sophie Panonacle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and Agir ens groups]] Before I refer to the motion for a resolution, let me have a thought for the women and men who, in search of a better future, died off Calais by crossing the Channel. I thank Maina Sage and Jimmy Pahun, two colleagues who represent the antipodes of our national territory – French Polynesia and Morbihan. Hexagon and overseas countries, faced with climate challenges and the obligation to protect the ocean, must, more than ever, be united. Our two friends have shown a good persistence in defending the draft resolution we are considering today. Thanks to them, we can – whether we have been elected in a maritime constituency or not – demonstrate our unity and mobilization. We can prove that we are able to put the diversity of our sensitivities at the service of the great cause of the millennium: saving the ocean, to save the planet. Then let's do it! As everyone knows, the ocean, which is affected by all forms of land and marine pollution, by the effects of global warming and by the overexploitation of its resources, is in great pain. There is no doubt – scientists have amply proved it – that the salvation of the living and the planet depends first and foremost on the protection and sustainable management of the ocean. Conversely, if we continue to put him in danger as we do now, we will irreversibly condemn him – and we will with him. There is therefore no doubt: the issues and challenges clearly set out in the motion for a resolution for the conservation and sustainable use of the high seas are immense. The aim is to restore the interaction between climate, ocean and biodiversity as soon as possible. This necessity appears to be obvious, to me and to you. Our concerns are legitimate given the slow pace of negotiations on climate and biodiversity. When we read the results of COP26, we see that the curtain closed in Glasgow on a point of hope, but above all on a strong frustration. Similarly, the directions taken following COP15 on biodiversity in China show that it will be necessary to move beyond the current protocol posture to finally pave the way for the conclusion of an agreement in the spring of 2022. Indeed, the ability of the international community to act quickly against global warming and to cope with the degradation of biodiversity remains unsettled. By placing the ocean at the heart of international negotiations, we have an opportunity to influence the future COPs on climate and biodiversity. By making the ocean the link, the trait of union, the equilibrium point of planet Earth, we will be able to satisfy the responsibility of example at sea that is incumbent upon France as the holder of the first exclusive economic zone in the world. There is a space without jurisdiction, beyond territorial waters, where the absence of coercion is the rule and cooperation the exception: it is the high seas, subject to all lusts because of the expected benefits of the immoderate exploitation of its resources. Only a strong political mobilisation, at the highest level, will lead to the adoption of the so-called BBNJ Treaty on the Oceans in 2022. The next session of the Intergovernmental Conference, organised under the auspices of the United Nations, will take place from 7 to 18 March 2022. It will have to establish an international legal framework for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction. In advance, the One Ocean Summit, to be held in February 2022 at the initiative of the President of the Republic, will pave the way for a high-level gathering around a political declaration. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] The motion for a resolution that brings us together today is an additional step, which must lead us to adopt a new approach in our vital relations with the Ocean. It is up to us to consecrate it as the common good of humanity. To do this, the ocean must be the subject of an operational, collective and immediate commitment. He needs us and our mobilization. We have the economic, ecological and political legitimacy to carry out this formidable challenge: saving the ocean! The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote with conviction on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u16	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u17	Our Republic, thanks mainly to its overseas territories, has the world's second largest maritime domain and the world's first sub-sea domain. Also, we French have a special national responsibility for the preservation of the oceans – of all the oceans, since France is present in the Atlantic, the Pacific, the Indian Ocean and the Southern Ocean. We have also had an international responsibility since 2 September 2002, when Jacques Chirac, at the Earth Summit in Johannesburg, addressed his fellow heads of state to encourage awareness of environmental hazards: "Our house is burning and we are looking elsewhere. Nature, mutilated, overexploited, can no longer rebuild itself, and we refuse to admit it. Humanity suffers. It suffers from ill-development, both in the North and in the South, and we are indifferent. Earth and humanity are at risk, and we are all responsible for it. » Since 2002, France has consistently affirmed its international leadership in the preservation of the environment and biodiversity – from COP21 in Paris in 2015, to the announcement by the President of the Republic of the International Summit on the Preservation of the Oceans to be held in Brest in 2022. In addition to these national and international responsibilities, there is a duty to our coastal and island territories, particularly overseas. Ultramarines are directly affected by climate change, marine pollution and overexploitation of fisheries resources. Sustainable and internationally coordinated management of maritime areas is essential for the maintenance and development of the fisheries sector, and therefore employment in the overseas territories. In Mayotte, the pearl of the Indian Ocean, the economic and social development of the fisheries sector is strictly correlated with the ability of the international actors concerned to guarantee the sustainable management of the fish resource, in a maritime zone thirty times greater than the exclusive economic zone of the region! The stakes are international: everywhere, consultation is essential for the preservation of national interests and the defence of common goods. Our ability to preserve the environment, biodiversity, but also the quality and quantity of resources we borrow from nature in our territorial seas, is strictly dependent on the vitality of adjacent EEZs, which itself depends on biodiversity on the high seas. Thus, from close to close, the coastal and pelagic ecosystems are interdependent. While the oceans cover almost 70% of the Earth, international waters alone account for 60% of the surface of the blue planet. The high seas, as defined in the international convention adopted in 1982 at Montego Bay, are not under management or concerted exploitation. We thus claim to preserve the global environment by acting on only one third of the spaces. If we remain there, the predation of the resources of the high seas would increase to the benefit of the maritime powers and to the detriment of the countries that cannot afford to participate in the exploitation of the international spaces belonging to all. That is why it is necessary that the ongoing negotiations lead to a substantial change in international law on the high seas. We therefore hope that the international summit on the preservation of the oceans to be held in Brest in 2022 will be a success. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and GDR groups]] For these reasons, the Republicans Group will vote for the motion for a resolution defended by our colleagues Maina Sage and Jimmy Pahun, whom I thank for this beautiful initiative, with which many of us, on all sides, have been associated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u18	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u19	First of all, my thoughts go to the women and men perished at sea yesterday between our coasts and those of England, driven by misery and hope for a better life, on a makeshift boat. At sea, a life is a life; Yesterday, twenty-seven people left us. The challenges facing the ocean are urgent and immense; We must combat both all forms of marine pollution, its warming and acidification, the rise of water and the overexploitation of its resources. Moreover, the challenges of protecting the ocean go beyond the challenges of biodiversity loss, as it plays a fundamental role in climate regulation. Any question relating to the ocean must therefore take into account these very special and reciprocal links, the links insufficiently known to the general public but that the Ocean &am platform p; Climate is working to shed light so that we can preserve the true lung of the planet; I warmly welcome its President and Vice-President, who are attending our debates today, as well as the Ambassador of the poles and maritime issues also present. Why this motion for a resolution? Let us remember that much of the future of the ocean is being played at the United Nations right now. Since 2017, states have been engaged in a so-called BBNJ negotiation process, which aims to better protect the high seas, this area beyond 200 miles, that is, the EEZs, which represent nearly 60% of the ocean. Through this motion for a resolution, we call, Madam Secretary of State for Biodiversity, for the success of the BBNJ through a strong political portage, at the highest level, in France and in Europe. The main points of the negotiations relate to the sharing of the expected benefits of the exploitation of marine genetic resources with developing countries, the establishment of marine protected areas on the high seas and the establishment of global environmental impact assessments to ensure that economic activities are carried out in a manner that respects marine ecosystems. This new global framework is to be linked with the many existing regional treaties to protect an area under increasing pressure. The process is both technical and legal, so little publicized, difficult to grasp for non-specialists, while its implications are absolutely major. This is the first purpose of the motion for a resolution: to help make known what is happening at the moment in the United Nations. The second objective of this text is no less essential: to call for political mobilization at the highest level in France, Europe and the world to reach the most ambitious agreement possible in 2022. An ambition, a deadline to be hammered: a BBNJ at the level in 2022. Maina Sage and I drafted this text in the fall of 2019 with the aim of involving representatives of the maritime industry in its drafting, and we were very soon joined by more than 200 of our colleagues from all the benches, proof of whether this assembly's spontaneous and sincere attachment to the protection of the ocean. Because the ocean is not the prerogative of a party, it gathers and festers. It is our strength to be able to carry the same message together, to inspire the same hope: that of the success of the BBNJ. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] I want to pay tribute here to my colleagues in the Dem Group and to those of all the other groups, to thank them for their commitment, with particular thought for Maina Sage, and for the chairman of his group Olivier Becht, as well as the president of the National Assembly, for the necessary support, for having personally invested in the protection of the ocean, and I do not forget the support of Marielle de Sarnez, the first co-signatory of this motion for a resolution when she was chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and that of her successor Jean-Louis Bourlanges. We believe it is necessary for France to assume its status as a maritime power by taking the leadership in the negotiations, in particular through the One Ocean Summit to be held in Brest on 10, 11 and 12 February, and for a member of the Government to travel to New York to defend our common ambition, in support of the ambassador responsible for poles and maritime issues, whose strong commitment I welcome. We have the opportunity to mark history, thirty-nine years after the Montego Bay Accords, not for ourselves but for the protection of marine ecosystems, for the future of the ocean and the planet. Let us therefore assume this responsibility and seize this opportunity to, within a few months, inject a major diplomatic impetus into the sole objective of succeeding the BBNJ. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The ocean has always been a space of dreams, adventures, discoveries and emotions – good or bad – and fundamentally of freedom; It is of these spaces of which Antoine de Saint-Exupéry speaks, those, infinite, where man is fulfilled". Today it must become a space of responsibility, a space of forced freedom, to counter the growing pressures against it. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote unanimously for this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u20	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u21	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u22	In the preamble, I associate myself with previous speakers' reflections on the tragic disappearance of men and women who sought only a better future by crossing the Channel yesterday. We know that natural resources are overexploited, and marine resources are not immune to this reality. We have damaged our oceans, the fauna and the flora that they harbour to the point of removing many marine species that are essential to the balance of this ecosystem. Long left aside by public environmental policies, however, the protection of the oceans is a fundamental issue in the fight against climate change. The latest IPCC special report on the ocean and cryosphere shows that the greenhouse effect would have been much more intense if it had not absorbed a significant proportion of the carbon dioxide emitted by humans. Unfortunately, the ocean's absorption of CO causes its acidification, which is harmful to many marine ecosystems. Topics related to ocean conservation and resource management include poaching, overfishing, plastic pollution, rising water, mining, etc. But all these topics are connected to the global challenges of protecting biodiversity and combating climate change. The Socialist and Related Group welcomes the fact that Parliament is taking up such an issue at a time when negotiations on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction are under way and the One Ocean Summit will be held next February at the initiative of France. The law of the sea must evolve rapidly and ambitiously. France has a key role to play in protecting the oceans and must advocate for the early conclusion of an agreement that meets the challenges. That is what the motion for a resolution is about, and that is why the Socialist and related group will support it. However, we have some concerns about the Government's willingness to do so. Indeed, during his presentation of the France 2030 plan, the President of the Republic referred to the possibility of access to rare metals in the context of the exploration of the seabed, and the French government refused, at the UINC conference held in Marseille last September, to support a moratorium on deep-sea mining. We will therefore be vigilant about the gap between words and deeds and ensure that the commitments that should be made in the One Ocean Summit are properly implemented. We stress the need to strengthen the financial and human resources dedicated to the protection of the oceans to support actors on the ground in order not to produce a legal framework that would once again be an empty shell.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u23	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u24	Our maritime power is an extraordinary asset for France and one of the pillars of our national reach. Indeed, our maritime space, with nearly 11 million square kilometres, is the second largest in the world after that of the United States, the equivalent of twenty times the size of metropolitan France. I have a special thought for the overseas countries because they allow France to be present not only in Europe but also in America, Africa and Oceania. Some forget it too often, but France is also large of those overseas departments and territories that we have always defended. We are more determined than ever to defend this part of France abandoned by the Republic. Such a maritime space brings us exceptional resources and offers us a strategic advantage without common measure. Yet the ocean is all too often considered marginal, as a mere delimitation of the Earth, while it is an open door to the world. And if the ocean is weakened, it is also 14% of GDP and 300,000 jobs linked to the sea economy that are threatened in our country. The observation is clear: the seas are a formidable asset for the world of tomorrow, but the means to defend them and to preserve them are insufficient. Recall that they contain 80% of existing biodiversity; Their preservation must be a constant concern to combat pollution and the destruction of marine biodiversity! However, climate change and rising ocean levels pose a direct threat not only to ecosystems but also to the inhabitants of coastal areas. In this respect, the motion for a resolution is a good thing because it legitimately highlights the absolute need to preserve the oceans. We will vote for it, but we will vote against it: it is not by delegating the majority of our prerogatives to a European Union that is increasingly relegated to itself that we will achieve sustainable management of the sea! Sovereign France must seize this subject to build an innovative and bold France. The ravages of climate change could be limited if we agreed to challenge globalization and the economic model of free trade, which is structurally bad for the environment. However, those who set themselves the standard for environmental protection ratify in parallel all the free trade treaties that allow billions of tons of waste to be rushed into our territories and into the oceans. Produce in one point A, in countries that do not meet any environmental standards, to transform into a point B before bringing these productions to us for their consumption harms the planet. On the contrary, localism, which consists of producing as close as possible to places of consumption, is the assurance of an immediate reduction in polluting emissions, if only by reducing transport flows and by guaranteeing, from one end of the chain, compliance with environmental standards. It is now necessary to tackle the root of the problem, namely ultraliberal globalisation, in order to permanently reduce its impact on our marine ecosystems. The defence of the oceans is not a niche fight, but the culmination of the fight of nations against a globalization that obeys only financial logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u25	On this motion for a resolution, the Group of the European People's Party and the European People's Party have before it a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u26	Dear Maina Sage, dear Jimmy Pahun, thank you for this motion for a resolution. France is a great maritime power, as you pointed out, and your fight, as Parliament's extremely strong voice today, contributes to protecting the oceans. This is an extremely strong message that we are addressing to the world. Your support in the negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the future BBNJ Treaty, is extremely valuable. Your draft resolution deals with a major issue that requires our total mobilization and strong and committed diplomatic action. The ocean covers more than 70% of the planet's surface; It is an irreplaceable provider of resources and a vector of economic exchanges, but also the largest regulator of environmental balances. The world's egg, it preserves and produces 50% of our oxygen, absorbs almost 25% of human CO emissions and 90% of the excess heat. It feeds more than 3 billion people and its activities contribute $2,500 billion to the global economy, or some 4 per cent of the world's gross value added. Yet, as you said, the ocean is at risk today: pollution, ecosystem degradation, acidification, overfishing, or the exploitation of the seabed undermine its health. The maritime space has become a place of tension, conflicts arising around its different uses. We must at all costs avoid reaching the point of no return. The effort is also being made beyond our jurisdiction on the high seas. It is also played on the ground: it is the entire earth-sea continuum that requires our vigilance. Human activities are often the cause of disruptions and our action must cover all sectors of activity, which must be broken down, both at national and international level, within an inter-ministerial framework. The COP15 negotiations at the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) provide an opportunity to set ambitious targets for the protection of the seas and oceans. France, currently chairing Group I of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO and therefore vice-chair of this body, is defending the global target of 30 per cent protection of land and seas by 2030. By adopting this objective at the 41st session of its General Conference last October, UNESCO had already sent a strong message. In particular, with regard to marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, France is actively contributing to the so-called BBNJ negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations. These negotiations have entered the decisive stage of drafting a treaty. It has been under development since 2018, but the covid-19 pandemic has led to the suspension of formal work, which is expected to resume in New York in March 2022, at the heart of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Our country will therefore bear the voice of the Union, which gives it a special responsibility. In substance, this agreement to implement the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea should ensure better governance of the ocean. We need to provide operational responses to create marine protected areas on the high seas; establish a comprehensive framework to assess the environmental impact of activities on the high seas; establish a regime for access to marine genetic resources and benefit-sharing from marketed products, to ensure a level playing field between developed and developing countries; to organize the transfer of technology for the benefit of developing States, which are heavily affected by the deterioration of the health of the oceans. France promotes an ambitious treaty, innovative in its ecosystem approach, holistic, seeking to strike a balance between conservation and sustainable use of resources and biodiversity on the high seas. It works within this framework for the recognition of the ocean as a common good. At European level, France advocates the voluntary sharing of benefits arising from the use of marine genetic resources. It supports cooperation with international and regional organizations in the creation of area-based management tools on the high seas, including marine protected areas with opposable management plans. It promotes the adoption of a threshold for triggering environmental impact assessments, consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and consistent with the state of the ocean. It also wished to ensure that developing States had access to financing for their activities, including through the use of the Global Environment Facility. Finally, our country is working to institutionalize and facilitate global exchange, transparency and cooperation. There are many places for debate to build this governance. France takes its full part in the European framework. It is in Brussels that the positions that the European Union defends at the headquarters of the United Nations on behalf of its Member States are being developed. His delegation was particularly active in that regard, since its positions were generally more consistent than those of other partners. The French positions are drawn up in consultation with all the national administrations concerned. We have a regular dialogue with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and civil society – I was still yesterday with the France Océan Committee – and this cooperation is essential. At the international level, mobilization is aimed at the adoption of an agreement by the largest number of States in 2022. Our goal is to achieve an ambitious, universal, robust and effective treaty to ensure the protection of ocean biodiversity and the sustainable use of marine resources. In order to achieve such a goal, you have said, first and foremost, there must be strong political involvement. If we are here today, thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, we are united and ready to defend the oceans together. France is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with third States, which it mobilizes and encourages to adopt a constructive attitude. In particular, our country has co-organized workshops that brought together heads of foreign delegations and NGOs and opened dialogue with private actors. During the G7 and G20, as in our bilateral exchanges, we make a strong voice. France co-pilots with Costa Rica the Coalition of High Ambition for Nature and Peoples, which defends the goal of protecting at least 30% of the land and seas by 2030. To go even further, by hosting the World Conservation Congress of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in Marseille in September 2021, the President of the Republic announced the organization, at the beginning of 2022, in Brest, of the One Ocean Summit entirely dedicated to these issues. The mobilization around these issues is strong; the timetable obliges us to do so. The One Ocean Summit, to be held from 10 to 12 February 2022, will provide an opportunity to bring together Heads of State and Government, business, research and finance actors, international organizations and civil society to prepare for the upcoming negotiations. We will make this event a summit of solutions, innovation and shared governance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] The One Ocean Summit will substantially accelerate the international agenda. In this context, we will be fully mobilized. I will participate in all major events in the coming months. I will be present and bring your voice to the Barcelona COP in Antalya; I will be present, as Vice-President of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA), in the negotiations of UNEA 5, which will deal in particular with the issue of plastics; I will also be present in the BBNJ negotiations. [[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and LT]] France holds the voice of the European Union, but the ministerial presence remains necessary to affirm our country's will to see these negotiations conclude. We will find all these issues in the framework of the COP15 on biodiversity, to be held in the spring in Kunming, and of the United Nations conference on SDG-14 – the fourteenth sustainable development goal – to be held in Lisbon at the end of June. I will represent you, but certainly many of you will speak with me in these international events, within delegations, to defend our objectives and advance ocean governance in order to achieve sustainable integrated management. [[Mr Jean-CharlesLarsonneurapplaudit]] The One Ocean Summit will also make it possible to call for a shared and open knowledge of the sea, including the deep seabed. As many scientists have shown, especially at the World Congress of Nature, we still have an immense field to discover, with the ocean and its resources still not well known. Understanding how it works is, however, essential for making decisive choices, often leading to major changes, that we will have to make in the decades to come. The One Ocean Summit will promote a more sustainable blue economy, capable of preserving human activities by adapting them to reduce their impact on the environment and fragile ecosystems, in compliance with the Paris Agreement. It will be an opportunity to draw up the future international framework for biodiversity. The Summit will strengthen the convergence of climate, biodiversity and ocean agendas to highlight nature-based solutions, both on land and at sea. We will continue to invest in the restoration of marine ecosystems – grass beds, corals, mangroves – capable of fixing carbon and mitigating climate change. The One Ocean Summit will emphasize the responsibility of everyone and the continuum between land and sea. We need to radically transform our production and consumption patterns by taking decisive action alongside economic and agricultural actors, at the root of the impacts that must be mitigated through research and innovation. We are working in cooperation with the European Commission, which is launching the mission to restore our oceans and seas by 2030, which is dedicated to our objectives. Our dialogue is also ongoing with United Nations bodies: the Secretary-General's Special Envoy for the Ocean, the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and the International Maritime Organisation. Our ambassadors are also very active in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and LT groups]] I welcome the national and international mobilization around these issues and I enthusiastically support your motion for a resolution. Allow me to salute your voice and your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u27	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u28	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 82 Number of votes cast 82 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 82 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u29	The next item is the discussion, at second reading, under the simplified procedure provided for in Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill, as amended by the Senate, on restrictions on access to certain professions due to health conditions (No. 4203, 4698). On this text, I have received a request for a public vote from the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u30	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u31	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u32	As the bill has not been amended, I put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u33	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 60 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u34	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and on a few benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] The simplified review procedure was chosen by the Action Group simply because there was an urgent need to remove discrimination that affects people with chronic diseases, particularly diabetes. I wanted to pay tribute to the commitment of the young Hakaroa Vallée, who alerted us all on the subject. By voting the bill unanimously, parliamentarians we are doing a useful job. The text had to be voted on, so that it did not remain at the stage of intention, but became the law; The ball is now in the executive camp. Collectively, we can be proud of what we have just accomplished for all concerned, and I salute those who are present in the gallery this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u36	The next item is the discussion, in accordance with the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill of MM. Pierre-Yves Bournazel and Christophe Blanchet and others to modernise the fight against counterfeiting (No 4555, 4693).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u37	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate. I would like to point out to you that, on the whole text, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u38	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u39	The aim is not to restrict the possibility of registration to agents of the National Institute of Industrial Property (INPI), by referring in the law to the concept of "assigned agents" – as was the case in the original wording – who will be approved by the Minister responsible for industrial property to make findings in respect of infringement. INPI does not have the resources to absorb this new burden. The Institute is already experiencing a significant increase in its tasks with the PACTE law – including new administrative procedures in the field of trademarks and patents, enhanced examination of patents and the establishment of the single window – while its resources are capped in the financial law. Agents from other agencies or institutions could be sworn in to carry out this new mission. It is therefore in order to ensure greater flexibility and efficiency that the Government proposes this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u40	Mr Christophe Blanchet, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u41	We are in favour of this amendment, which is a fine landing. However, allow me to bring a nuance: all agents may well ask to be sworn in, regardless of the structures to which they belong, including those of INPI. It is not because the latter is not clearly mentioned that his agents will not be able to be candidates. Some INPI officials are asking very clearly to be able to carry out this task, even though the Secretary of State has rightly recalled the extra work they have to deal with under the PACTE law. However, many of them believe that being accredited in the fight against counterfeiting would be a continuation of their tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u42	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u43	We propose a new wording of Article 4 in order to enhance the effectiveness of the mechanism which was intended to combat online counterfeiting, by providing for an extension of the scope of measures which may be ordered by the judicial authority. Thus, the judge could order any measure to prevent access to a domain name or social network account. In addition, the scope of the persons against whom the measures may be ordered by the judge will be more precisely defined. These would be the owners of domain names or social media accounts, or the persons mentioned in Article 1 and 2 of Article 6 of the Law of 21 June 2004 on confidence in the digital economy, i.e. Internet service providers or hosting companies. In addition, the proposed wording removes the principle of subsidiarity, which required first action against domain name owners before being able to turn against intermediaries – in this case, access providers and hosting companies – which would have made the task of a trademark owner more complex, for example, in order to assert its rights. Finally, article L. 713-8 of the Intellectual Property Code is deleted to take account of the ongoing negotiations at European level concerning the Digital Services Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u44	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u45	Together with my colleague Christophe Blanchet, we are very happy to defend this bill, and we very much welcome the Government's amendment, which will simplify a number of steps and facilitate referral to the judicial authority. It is also a proposal for an appeal law: within the framework of the French Presidency of the European Union, we will be able to make progress in the fight against counterfeiting, in particular by empowering social platforms and networks and acting within the framework of the tax policy that we want to pursue at European level on this subject. It is very important to move quickly at national level, but also – more importantly – at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u46	The rapporteur, Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, has the floor to support Amendment No 12, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u47	The aim is to introduce new provisions in the Customs Code to adapt the possibilities offered to customs officers in the face of the rise in the sale of online counterfeiting. As a first step, we want to draw the attention of intermediaries who, by making goods prohibited on importation available to their customers, are likely to participate in the commission of a customs offence when these goods are imported into France. Through this first contact, intermediaries will be able to comment on the findings made by customs officers. In a second stage, in the event of non-observation or non-obvious observation, the name and surname, corporate name or trade name of the intermediary concerned shall be entered in a public list available on the customs website for a period not exceeding 12 months. At any time, the intermediary concerned may request to be removed from the list on the basis of justification for the implementation of measures to ensure compliance with the applicable regulations in order to prevent the customs offences concerned from being committed as a result of an online order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u48	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u49	We are very much in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u50	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u51	This amendment by my colleague Jean-Michel Mis, whom I have co-signed, aims to have the Government submit to Parliament a report on the possibility of using blockchain technology in the modernisation of the fight against counterfeiting. I recall that this technology gives a unique identifier to each product that proves its origin, thanks to an unfalsifiable history. This is of great interest in the fight against counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u53	We support this amendment, which goes hand in hand with the work we have been doing with my colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel for exactly four years. I would like to take this last opportunity to thank my group, the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, as well as the Group of the European People's Party, which has included this text in its niche. For the past four years, we have worked a lot; It was many hearings and reports that led to the introduction of a first bill. I thank the Government for working with us, and I will send a message: this is just the beginning. In the area of counterfeiting, within seven years, we have moved from the eighth place in the world to the vice-champion of the world. I confess that I would prefer our country to be a 2022 world champion of a sport other than counterfeiting. Today, there is an urgent need to act. Our bill goes in the right direction, with a first impact on which it is necessary to communicate: any purchase – and therefore the possession – of counterfeit products will now be punishable by a flat-rate fine of 200 euros. This is a major development, because there would be no counterfeiting if there were no buyer. Sensitizing buyers about counterfeiting is already changing the outlook on this type of product. That's what we wanted through our reports, that's what we wanted in this bill: to change the look on counterfeiting. Counterfeiting is not luxury products, it is not handbags, shoes or clothing. The first counterfeit products in France are games and toys in for children. As Christmas approaches, it is urgent to make our citizens aware of the danger they take for their children when they buy counterfeits, especially on the Internet. The second counterfeit products are cigarettes. Pierre-Yves Bournazel has done an excellent work on this subject. Counterfeit cigarettes finance criminal networks and are very harmful to health, with incredible health consequences – we have detected it well in four years of work. There are also all the implications of counterfeiting in child labour. Colleagues, let us not doubt that every time a counterfeit is produced in a third country, it is not produced by 16-year-olds – this could already be a question – but by children aged 9 to 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u54	Buying a forgery means supporting the work of minors. Buying a counterfeit means not respecting sustainable development and the environment, it means dirtying rivers and rivers. Buying a counterfeit means financing criminal organisations, which today weigh 10 billion euros in France and 60 billion euros in Europe – that is not amateurism. Buying a counterfeit means working together to destroy 40,000 jobs in our country last year and to lose revenue for the state. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Thanks again to Pierre-Yves Bournazel for his work and to you, colleagues, for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u56	We are absolutely convinced of the need to shed light on these new practices and uses, this blockchain which attracts the interest of a wide range of sectors, with a constantly increasing number of users. The National Customs Anti-Counterfeiting Plan already provides for the technical possibilities of the blockchain system to be explored as part of the collection and processing of intelligence, but this report, if adopted, could help to establish the relevance of this technology to protected right holders and rights registration bodies. The customs administration could also, in its efforts to combat counterfeiting, focus on the legal dimensions of the proposal, particularly with regard to data security. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u57	The rapporteur, Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u58	As things go very quickly in this simplified procedure and we are going to vote on the bill in a few moments, I would like to explain what we wanted to do. Counterfeiting is a poison, an undervalued poison, and we want to alert national, European and international authorities on this issue. But we also want to alert buyers: when you buy a counterfeit product, you put its safety and health at risk, you finance very organized mafia channels, whose funds can be invested in pimping, drugs and even, according to some experts, terrorism. Counterfeiting is the exploitation of children across the globe. It is the refusal of standards, of any specifications. Counterfeiting contributes significantly to global warming. It is also the destruction of our know-how, our industrial and intellectual property. It is the destruction of jobs and a loss of earnings of some €8 billion each year for the State. We must therefore act. In this bill, we are bringing new and immediately operational solutions to the fight against counterfeiting, but it is also a call for us to go faster and further in this area and for France, in the framework of the French presidency of the European Union, to take up this subject, in particular that of the accountability of social platforms and networks, which unfortunately allow too many counterfeits to flourish. With Christophe Blanchet, we saw the arrival at the port of Le Havre of counterfeit product packages that we found in two minutes on the big platforms that everyone knows. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] It is our responsibility to put this issue forward. France and Europe will also have to find international allies to reverse the trend and make this fight a battle of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u59	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 10, as corrected, which deletes Rule 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u60	The Government wishes to lift the pledge of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u61	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u62	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 69 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u63	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to develop midwifery training (No. 4556, 4690).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u64	Mrs Annie Chapelier, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] Today is 25 November, International Day to Combat Violence against Women. This day was defined by the United Nations more than twenty years ago, a day of consecration as there are so many, but a day that seems far too short in the face of the scale of its task: to highlight all violence against women, whatever they may be, to denounce and combat them. That is why I would like to introduce my remarks on this bill in the words of a man, Dr. Denis Mukwege, a man who dedicated his life to this cause. In his latest book, The Women's Force, he says of childbirth that it is the "time when women are the most vulnerable and powerful". He adds that "the attitude of men towards childbirth in a given society makes it possible to know whether women are free and respected there". I think everything is summarized in these sentences. We can only go back to that analysis. The importance we attach to a society at the time of birth is indicative of the degree of equality between women and men. For this moment has long been, in our Western societies and in many other places in the world, a hidden moment, abandoned or even shameful, a moment exclusively of women, accompanied by other women, midwives, where men appear only in almighty. This exclusively feminine story explains many things for the recognition of a profession, yet medical for 1803, more than two centuries. "Good women who care for good women," as one of them summed up so well. Many do not know, but this occupation was exclusively female until 1982. It has only been forty years since men in France were able to practise this medical profession. Thus, in parallel with the evolution of equality between women and men, the profession of midwife has progressed in its recognition, but always suddenly, at the price of incessant struggles and most of the time in almost indifference. As the birth has been secured through widespread hospitalization, increasing medicalization and technicalization, midwives have seen their role evolve, their skills expand, but their status has remained unchanged. That is why I cannot help but see, in the reasons for this necessary bill, the reflection of symbolic violence, persistent discrimination and an injustice that is being tried to be heard. The profession of midwife has been deconceived for too long, regardless of its quality and societal usefulness. A deep ill-being then settled within the profession. He's justified. In the new interest of the nation as a whole in their very recent mobilizations, in the trans-party work that I welcome which this bill is the result of, in the advances already adopted here and in the governmental positions reaffirming the medical character of the profession, I want to see, I hope see, the symbol of a changing society, I want to read there a national will to move forward on the subject. Of course, this text will not answer all the problems to be solved for full recognition of the profession, because it is indeed recognition that it is involved, as for all the health professions, but it proposes to start with the basics, the foundations of the profession: training. In this way, we want to put an end to outdated divisions between medical professionals and collectively recognize the broad responsibilities and competencies of a previously diminished profession. This bill focuses on four key points, starting points for gaining recognition of the profession. The beginning of a university integration process started in 2009 is now at a standstill and suffers from the absence of a precise directive. The very slow and heterogeneous university integration of the thirty-five midwifery schools in our country is denounced by all, during the hearings, as an anomaly. Article 1 proposes to remedy this by providing that university integration of training must take priority through a health training and research unit (UFR) or, failing that, within one of the university components. The aim is to provide a clear and realistic guideline, at national level, for the establishment of universities in the departments of maieutics, maintaining their administrative and pedagogical autonomy. University integration is complementary to the acquisition of practical know-how, in particular through the development and diversification of traineeships. This is the subject of Article 1a, introduced in committee by an identical amendment of the three groups of the majority, creating a master's degree in maieutics. Midwifery students will thus have a better knowledge of the different working environments available, particularly in outpatients, liberals or in the home of birth, and will be able to build their professional project better. In parallel with the diversification of traineeships, Article 2, as amended by the Committee on Social Affairs, addresses one of the main concerns raised by the profession. This includes a review of all undergraduate and graduate training, as well as the introduction of a third cycle of study. A very dense formation of high quality but which had to be rebalanced. At the end of the third cycle of study, the defence and validation of an exercise thesis will thus confer the state diploma of doctor in maieutics to midwifery students. As a physiologist, midwives are the source of knowledge that we need to learn to cultivate. They represent the medical authority, building knowledge on reproductive health, pregnancy and childbirth. To prevent them from accessing research was to refuse to recognize their usefulness and the great added value they can bring in these areas. Article 3 puts an end to this by giving finally the possibility for female researchers in the maieutic sector to carry out their clinical activity and their teaching and research activities at the same time. By creating an ad hoc status, this article gives dual expertise to all midwives teaching as researchers, whether working in public hospitals, private institutions or outpatients. While we have only two lecturers in Maieutics and one university professor, for a population of 67 million, this article is welcome and is widely welcomed by the profession. It is actually of public utility. The adage "We teach well that what we do and do well only what we teach" must guide us. An optimal combination of theory and practice will allow the two sides to enrich each other. Finally, article 4 goes back to the sources of deep discomfort. It is proposed to amend the NAF nomenclatures – French activity nomenclature – and the PCS classifications – professions and socio-professional categories – of INSEE, which classify midwives with nurses or as "intermediate professions" since 1982. They will thus be reclassified, as provided for in the Public Health Code, like the medical professions, instead of their own. We trust them and the quality work they do. Evidence of this: within this legislature, their powers have been constantly reaffirmed and expanded. I would like to welcome the very recent announcements made by the Government, which, through the memorandum of understanding, has made significant progress for the profession, with the net upgrading of 500 euros per month for midwives in hospitals as of 1 February 2022 and the reaffirmation of their specific role in health facilities. These announcements are consistent with this bill by endorsing the creation of a sixth year of training, which is set out in section 2. This bill is therefore part of a continuum. It federates and makes consensus; At no time have we heard a dissension at the hearings and consultations held. It responds to a request for better support from professionals, parturients and women in general – where the human is finally placed at the heart of the exchange. If French midwives are Europe's first in terms of skills and responsibilities, this will only be truer tomorrow to meet the health needs of our population. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] With this text, we are making a paradigm shift. To build the health care system of tomorrow and the hospital of the future, we need to move our centre of gravity, "medically centered" and "hospitalized", to give way to professions that have not yet been visible. Everyone knows the proverb: "Prevention is better than cure. We all agree, and yet, how many of the laws we pass fall under prevention? In the field of health, prevention, which is the most formidable and effective of weapons to combat the disease...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u67	...and addiction, is almost non-existent in our country. However, there are professions whose scope of practice and skills are largely focused on prevention, health education and screening. Midwifery is one of them. Midwives accompany women throughout their lives in the area of reproductive health. This text will therefore have an undeniable impact at the national level. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] I am pleased that national representation can speak today on the bill. I thank all the parliamentarians present today, the 136 co-signatories of the text who trusted me and, of course, the members of my group, the Group of the European People's Party, for the attention they have paid to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u68	Please conclude, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u69	[[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on a few benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, SOC and IUD-I. – MM. François Ruffin and Stéphane Peu applause also]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address this debate with the heart of the hope that we will all be able together, with this bill, to give the midwives of our country the recognition that is due to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u70	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u71	The proposal for a law to change the midwifery profession, presented by Ms Annie Chapelier, aims to respond to developments in the profession and to the demands of the actors. First of all, I would like to recall the important role that midwives play in a comprehensive approach to women's health. I also take this opportunity, on behalf of the Government, to thank all midwives for their commitment since the beginning of the health crisis: throughout this period, they have ensured continuity of care for their patients and, as part of the immunization strategy, vaccinated women and their families. Let me also, on this International Day to Combat Violence against Women, publicly commend the involvement of midwives in this fight and their alertness. You know that, and you have been watching through various bills, the place of midwives in our care system is becoming increasingly recognized. The law aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification, known as the Rist Act, which you passed last April, allowed midwives to prescribe work stoppages without time limits, as well as screening examinations and treatments for sexually transmitted infections. The Act also created the status of reference midwife. The regulations resulting from these developments will be published by the end of the year. In addition, as allowed during the health crisis, midwives will now have the opportunity to perform instrumental abortions until the end of the tenth week of pregnancy. The desire to work for this profession is reflected in other recent initiatives of the Government, which the National Assembly has adopted. For example, in the draft law on the financing of social security (PLFSS) for 2022, which Parliament will vote definitively on Monday afternoon, you approved the creation of a compulsory early postnatal interview aimed at early identification of postpartum depression and its risk factors, as well as the mission of the National Health Insurance Fund (CNAM) to promote the skills of midwives through information campaigns. This general process must be continued because the midwifery profession has undergone profound changes and still suffers from a lack of recognition, despite the major role played by these professionals in our health system and the diversification of their missions. For several months, the Government has been fully engaged with them and is actively working on several developments, notably on the basis of the report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs (IGAS) last July. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health communicates very regularly with representatives of the profession – whether they are professional organizations, labour organizations in the hospital public service, law enforcement or students – on the issues that bring us together today. For example, last Monday, the Government signed an agreement with the majority of the trade union organizations representing the hospital civil service and the Hospital Federation of France, with a salary increase of 500 euros net monthly for midwives in hospitals. This measure will apply to incumbent and contractual midwives and will be transposed to the private sector. These are not promises; These are acts, provisions that will apply as soon as the PLFSS comes into force. Among the various dimensions on which developments are needed and on which the Government wishes to move forward is the important subject of training, which is at the heart of the bill. By supporting the movement to integrate initial training into university, the bill sends a strong signal in favour of this process, which will strengthen the quality of training and the cooperation of midwives with other health professionals. The practical modalities of this development should be defined with universities and regions, but the planned timetable leaves time for consultation and implementation of the new training framework. The text also reflects the Government's recent decision to create a sixth year of training in order, at the same time, to smooth the content of the current training and to enrich it with additional skills and the discovery of different modes and places of exercise – a guarantee of the territorial anchoring of health professionals. This bill also addresses the challenges of teaching maieutics. The desire to facilitate joint teaching, research and clinical practice activities for midwives is widely shared. The Government had recently established a Maieutical section within the National Council of Universities, which should be supported in its mission. First appointments have also taken place, proof that we are committed to the same dynamic. Finally, the text aims to enshrine the medical character of the profession in different statistical nomenclatures, which we can only support in principle. I recall that on 16 September, Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, announced to midwives the creation of a medical sector within the hospital public service to fully recognize their profession in the hospital. You see, we share the same objective. I would also like to welcome the improvements made to the text in committee at the initiative of the rapporteur and Members of the majority. They made it possible to specify certain terms and conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Acting Together groups]] The initiative of this bill is therefore in the right direction and aims at the same objectives as those set by the Government to develop the training of midwives and to enshrine the French model of this profession, which gives it a medical character, in accordance with the expectations of students and professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u72	In the general debate, Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u73	The Group of the European People's Party has chosen to put on the agenda of its parliamentary niche this bill, defended by our colleague rapporteur Annie Chapelier, with the firm intention of moving towards a better recognition of the skills of midwives and the role they play in our health system. The recent strike movements of this profession, which are 98% carried out by women, bear witness to the ill-being that is going through it. On behalf of my group, I would like to welcome the majority agreement reached earlier this week between the Government and the trade unions to strengthen the recognition of midwives and the attractiveness of their profession. From next March, thanks to the revalorisations already decided at the Ségur de la santé, midwives of the hospital civil service will see their remuneration increase by an average of 500 euros net per month, for a total amount of 100 million euros in 2022. This effort, which was indispensable, is not limited to the wage question: the agreement also provides for the creation of a sixth year of training in maieutics, a measure to which we are obviously very attached, since it is at the heart of Article 2 of the bill. These major advances meet the long-standing expectations expressed by midwives, who exercise with dedication and passion a profession, essential in more than one way, whose scope of competence has expanded considerably in recent years. Since 2009, they have been able to consult on gynaecology and contraception, perform osteopathy or prescribe hormonal contraceptives. Since 2016, they have been allowed to immunize pregnant women and newborn babies and to carry out IVG drugs. Finally, the law to improve the health system through trust and simplification, introduced by our colleague Stephanie Rist and promulgated last April, has further expanded their tasks by allowing them to extend work stoppages and prescribe sexually transmitted infections (STIs). This increase in skills, which reflects the increasing level of responsibility of midwives, had so far taken place without re-engineering of their training or real salary upgrading. The measures announced this week by the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the bill that we will adopt, I hope, in a few moments will finally put an end to this paradox. The development of training in maieutics is indeed a first step in improving and reaffirming the medical status of the midwifery profession. Unlike their foreign counterparts, especially Europeans, French midwives form a full medical profession. This exception must be reflected in the organization of their training. This is the first objective of the bill, which aims to complete the university integration of midwifery training, although it should have been finalized in 2017. Four years later, it is clear that we are still far from it, since only eleven out of thirty-five schools have managed to do so. This development is, however, a necessity in order to put an end to territorial inequalities in education, to demarcate the training of health professionals and to encourage research in maieutics. Article 2 of the proposed law supplements the training of midwives by a third cycle, in the form of a sixth year of study. It aims, first of all, to improve the conditions for access to the studies of future midwives, while the gradual extension of their missions has greatly densified the content of their training. This additional year will also be an opportunity to refocus their skills on the very core of their profession, namely physiology. The success of birth homes, which carry out less medicalized deliveries, in the technical sense of the term, but equally secure, demonstrates the need to strengthen the skills of midwives in physiological accompaniment. Because university integration and the creation of a sixth year of study must go hand in hand with the development of field internships, we have inserted a new article in committee in order to create a status of university internship master in maieutics. It will allow midwives to be better accompanied during their internships, just as medical students are today. Finally, the text opens up the possibility for female researchers in maieutics to carry out joint care, research and teaching activities. This combination of activities, which is the result of an IGAS recommendation, is essential to ensure both the quality of research and the living transmission of knowledge to students. An amendment adopted in committee on the initiative of our rapporteur and the majority groups has usefully extended this provision to all midwives teaching as researchers, whether they work in public hospitals, private institutions or outpatients. Colleagues, with this bill, we have a real opportunity to change the training and status of midwives, which is too long away from the progress made by the medical professions. Let us take this opportunity to express our gratitude to them! The Group of the European People's Party calls on you to give its full support to the bill, adopted unanimously by the committee and defended, on behalf of our group, by Annie Chapelier, whose constant commitment to a better recognition of the fine work of midwife. Dear Annie, this text is the culmination of the rich work that you undertook, from the beginning of the legislature, to change the profession of midwife. Throughout the texts, you have constantly proposed constructive developments in terms of training, status, skills, perinatal care or prevention. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] This new bill, practical and operational, is in keeping with the spirit of the texts defended by our group in each of its parliamentary niches since the beginning of the legislature. It will, of course, benefit from the support of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party and, I have no doubt for a moment, ladies and gentlemen, from your unanimous support!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u74	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u75	Midwives do a great job on a daily basis by welcoming the birth of several hundred thousand newborns every year. More than just a trade, it is a real vocation to the service of women, whom they accompany throughout their lives. At the end of October, these midwives went on strike; This was the sixth time that they were mobilizing this year. They constantly question the Government about their working conditions and the lack of attractiveness of their profession. The latest decisions, which go in the right direction, at the moment only provide a partial solution to their problems. One of their demands is to strengthen their initial formation by opening a sixth year of study in maieutics. It is the heart of this proposal, which therefore envisages the introduction of a third cycle of studies. This is a first step that our independent IDU group supports; We welcome the rapporteur's commitment on the subject, which she has consistently demonstrated for many years. However, we must also reflect on the attractiveness of these occupations and on the precariousness of the employment contracts associated with them. It is not acceptable that after five years of study, a midwife's pay is sometimes so low that she has to combine precarious contracts to get out of it. However, as early as 2011, the Court of Auditors already advocated a path of care in which the midwife would truly become the professional of first resort in case of pregnancy and with regard to gynaecological follow-up of prevention. Other issues remain relevant. Strengthening the workforce in the birth hall is a priority and I can only encourage you, Madam Minister Delegate, to take this matter up. An analysis was carried out in 2018 by the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français (CNGOF), the Collège national des midwives de France (CNSF) and the Sociétés françaises de pédiatrie (SFP) et d'anesthesie et de résuscitation (SFAR): the 1998 decrees are now terribly obsolete. Comparisons with our European neighbours on perinatal mortality and morbidity rates are not in our favour, whereas France is the country in which the medicalisation of births is most widespread. In conclusion, we support this parliamentary initiative, which strengthens the necessary recognition of the midwifery profession, but we call the attention of the Government to the need for a real enhancement of the profession. This requires dialogue with these health professionals, who have an essential mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u76	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u77	"Farmers", "birth attendants", "matrones": these are words by which, for centuries, midwives were designated, who then practiced the art of delivery at home. Since then, their vital missions have been the subject of a long and progressive professionalization. On the other hand, recognition of the scientific value of their trade was slow and late. Worse, the low investment in obstetrics by men largely explains the marginalization of this knowledge both empirically and immensely. Such a phenomenon still has repercussions on the lack of consideration of the profession: the midwife's profession has paradoxically lost its autonomy as it becomes more technical, and it is now undergoing a real crisis of attractiveness. It is this development that we must correct. In other words, it is time to get the midwives out of the in-between in which they are located. Their profession has indeed been transformed by medical advances but also by the social advances that have taken place in favour of women; They were increasingly invested in women's sexual health at all stages and in all its aspects: prevention, contraception or abortion. The history of midwives is the history of women and the recognition of their health as a social issue. However, we cannot continually expand their scope, skills and responsibilities without improving their training, remuneration and status. This is done at the expense of midwives, who struggle to perform their duties in good conditions, but also of women themselves at the time when they most need to be accompanied. The Liberties and Territories Group can therefore only welcome the inclusion of such a bill on the agenda, as well as the serious work and constant commitment of the rapporteur, Annie Chapelier. The adoption of the text will first make it possible to move forward on the issue of training, by completing the university integration of midwives, which started in 2009 but never succeeded, with the aim of ending the heterogeneity of education in the territory and opening up health education. [[Minister Delegate protested]] But to include it in the law will not be enough: to do so will require a genuine political will on the part of the Minister for Solidarity and Health and the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation – a will that has so far been lacking. The text also endorses the creation of a third cycle in maieutics, which will complete the initial training of midwives and improve the well-being of students, who must assimilate very dense theoretical and practical teachings in very short time. Finally, the proposal on the possibility of combining professional activities and research activities is central. That is why our group was very committed to extending to midwives the mechanism of bi-membership, as it exists for pharmacists, dental surgeons and physicians. The amendments adopted in committee rewrite the original provision and, if we welcome the extension of the cumulation of activities for those in private and outpatient establishments, we question the abandonment of the two-member mechanism itself, in favour of an ad hoc status for midwives. In order to complete this range of measures, it will be necessary, Madam Minister Delegate, to award midwives doctoral fellowships targeted at research in maieutics. Finally, the text aims to better recognize midwifery as a medical activity in the French nomenclature: this is a first step. In the same way, we welcome the salary adjustments that were approved by agreement at the beginning of the week, as it was more than time to do so. However, there remains a central issue, which relates to the status of midwife and the distortion that exists between liberal and hospital. Such a question is not secondary: it is at the heart of the decline in the attractiveness of the profession in the hospital. If we do not clarify their status, we will not put an end to the in-between of midwives and we will not be able to deal with issues of hospital representation, governance or access to continuing education. The LT group will therefore support the bill, eagerly hoping that the Government will commit itself to its early inclusion in the Senate's agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u78	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u79	"It's not just the perineum that cracks! "Storks, but not pigeons! "; "Finished to be wise, midwives have rage! » These slogans, I read them on signs in Amiens, but we find them in Tours and Strasbourg, Paris and Nancy, in demonstrations that gather up to a quarter of the profession, as part of a strike that has now lasted for more than a month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u80	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u81	This movement, which is a movement of conquest and reconquest by women and for women, I would like here to show the profound meaning, to put it back in time. For centuries, midwives alone, without men, without doctors, have been giving birth. But now, suddenly, in the post-war period, all their millennial knowledge was rejected as grandmother's prejudices. "They are subject to the dictates of doctors" – it is a doctor who told me, a gynecologist, Paul Cesbron, co-author of a book entitled The Birth in the West. "All power now resides in the hands of science," he said to me, "and we, the white blouses, know. » Science then imposes the position of women: all will be lying down, legs in the air. Science imposes, after birth, the position of the baby: it will be on the belly, and more on the back. Science dictates that we give the bottle, plus the breast. Science even imposes bottle schedules: eight hours, eleven hours, sixteen hours. And she insists above all on having sex sliced: "Follows the mania of the episiotomies, remembers Paul Cesbron. I see myself, with a pair of scissors, cutting [...] their perineum. It's still violent, as a practice. Science finally imposes the date of delivery, by introducing the trigger: "At J + 4, hop, we trigger. It is that it corresponds to the doctor's all-power fantasy," concludes Paul Cesbron: "the baby is no longer born, it is born. The birth is medicalized, monitored, technicalized, triggered. The woman becomes "patient", almost passive, she suffers more than she chooses. So, what have we been witnessing now, for ten or twenty years? To a balance return. Women no longer want to undergo, but choose: they want to choose their position – crouched, on four legs or on the side; choose to be triggered, or not; choose the peridural, or not; often choose a more natural delivery. They want to regain power over their lives and this first act of life. And at the same time, midwives do the same: they also regain power over this first act of life. They regain their place in the first place in the delivery room, for bad reasons – France lacks gynecologists and midwives cost less – but also for good reasons: they now cease to be silent, they no longer allow themselves to be relegated to the back. They claim their knowledge, their know-how which is that of maieutics, the art of childbirth. They participate in a rebirth of birth, in a reinvention of this millennial gesture by women and for women, for their well-being, for their health, for their safety. And already, the fruits are there: the rate of episiotomy has decreased, even though it remains high. This is the movement of emancipation and liberation, historical and, in my opinion, wonderful, which we are witnessing. But this movement of progress is now hampered. It is because of budgets, big maternity homes, lack of people, lack of hands. What's going on? What is this contradiction we face? A more natural birth, less medicalized, it takes more time, it requires more accompaniment. How many are in delivery rooms? They are often two midwives, two running between four, five, six or even ten patients. They sometimes attend atrocious stories, frankly gores, that I spare you here, but that make them say: "In the morning, we arrive with anguish – I hope there will be no death – and in the evening, when we shave in the car, we do: "wow". » Most often, they experience the feeling of doing their job badly, always with an eye on the chronometer. Here's what they say: "This morning I was in the room, it sounds, it sounds, in a patient who wanted the epidural. But we arrive too late, the delivery was in progress, and therefore in pain". "A patient, I lied to her: she was three centimetres away, but I told her: '' walk another hour, and then it will be good'', because I had four files late. "It's easy to set triggers, it's easy to program. "We are forced to give birth to the chain, and at the same time, we are told that we need ''ac-com-pa-gner'', while we do not have five minutes to discuss. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u82	You say the same thing about all the texts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u83	This is the main cause of today's crisis, Madam Deputy Minister, of demonstrations, resignations: it is the feeling, the conviction that midwives have to do their work wrong; the enormous tension between their individual, professional and practical ethics; The gap between the desire of women and midwives to make birth a special moment, with wonderful and painful care and bonding, and a process that has become taylorized, automated, monitored and finally dehumanized. That is the tension we need to resolve. So the higher incomes: so much the better. Long training: so much the better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u84	They're content with it, too bad for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u85	[[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] But if we put the money before time, if we treat the purse but not the hearts, if you do not raise the rates of supervision in the delivery room, if you do not allow more connection, more care, then nothing will be solved and the midwives will continue to crack, more than the perineum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u86	On all themes, you do the same! We can write it before you, the speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u87	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u88	The midwifery profession has been waiting for statutory and salary recognition for many years. This year, the mobilizations of midwives have multiplied and intensified to demand recognition of their profession, which is in a state of absolute emergency. The weekend that starts tomorrow will be a black weekend in maternity hospitals and, if nothing moves, midwives announce that the week of December 24 to 31 will also be a black week. In fact, they are currently in a grey area as regards their status: sometimes recognised as medical, especially with regard to the criminal liability of the acts performed, their profession becomes paramedical once again when it is necessary to grant it advantages. The consequences of such inconsistencies are tangible. While they hold a baccalaureate + 5 degree following a first year of medicine, midwives in hospitals start between 1600 and 1800 euros net per month. They are also excluded from the various premiums awarded to doctors and cannot have a mixed activity, i.e. in the city and in the hospital, more than three years in their career. Far from solving the problem, the Ségur de la santé, initiated in the summer of 2020, only added oil to the fire, since the lack of statutory and wage recognition of midwives combined with an expansion of their skills, in a context of scarcity of gynaecologists. In short, it is a health profession with deteriorating working conditions, which is being asked more and more medically without statutory and salary recognition being at the rendezvous, which does not prevent the public authorities from discovering its skills when it suits them. Last recent example: vaccination against covid, which midwives are entitled to prescribe. This lack of recognition is not an abstract question. It weighs heavily on the attractiveness of a profession, in which you get up early, stress twelve hours in a row and work at night. The consequences are considerable, not only for midwives but also for the public health service. I will take as an example the maternity ward of the Delafontaine Hospital in Saint-Denis, where I visited a few days ago. This is one of the two level 3 maternity wards in the department; She has an average of 4,500 deliveries per year. Twenty-five years ago, a midwife waited four years to obtain a position in this maternity ward; Today, out of the ninety posts, only seventy are filled. As a direct consequence of this shortage, the hospital has had to close down services: the ultrasound service is now sent back to the private sector of city medicine; maternity no longer offers pre- and post-natal accompaniment, while post-partum depression is the leading cause of mortality among young mothers. Finally, eight of the 28 beds assigned to pathological pregnancies were closed. And the outlook is not good. The long-term risk is the complete closure of maternity, as was the case, for a month, for the hospital of Montfermel, still in Seine-Saint-Denis. We can't look anywhere else. Let us make it clear that the text we are looking at today does not deal with all the problems covered by the demands of the profession, nor does it deal with the situation of working midwives. But it offers a beginning of response, in particular by allowing their medical status to be enshrined through initial training. This is the meaning of the provisions aimed at integrating midwifery training into a university degree or at creating a sixth year of study, leading to a state diploma of doctor in maieutics. Similarly, by allowing midwives to carry out teaching and research activities in parallel with their professional activities, the text ends a particular feature that distinguished them from other medical professions. That is why, of course, we will vote for this bill, which goes in the right direction, accompanied by a very strong invitation to the Government so that these provisions are supplemented by salary adjustments – the premiums announced in recent days have been very badly received –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u89	I don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u90	... but also by statutory changes for the 23000 midwives in operation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Finally, to increase the attractiveness of this profession on a sustainable basis, it is necessary to deal in depth with the question of working conditions and the means of the public hospital, which remains the major loser of this quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u91	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u92	This morning we are considering a bill by our colleague Annie Chapelier to change the training of midwife. The subject is vast, this profession, essential in more than one way, has undergone profound changes. For several years, ill-being has grown among midwives: lack of recognition and difficulties in training despite increasing skills. As a result, the Government has acted in a methodical manner, advocating dialogue and consultation with the social partners, in order to build the best solutions. Three areas of work have been identified: the skills of midwives, the skills of midwives, the skills of midwives, and the skills of midwives, which we will discuss this morning. As far as their role is concerned, the tasks of midwives have been considerably enhanced by the various pieces of legislation, notably by the bill of our colleague Stephanie Rist, which has made many advances, particularly in the area of prescribing. On the issue of wages, the Ségur de la santé came to revalue the remuneration, with an average net monthly increase of around 365 euros per month. And that's not all: this week, Olivier Véran, Amélie de Montchalin and Adrien Taquet signed a memorandum of understanding to raise these valuations to 500 euros net per month, for midwives in the hospital service, the Government having already committed itself to transposing these valuations into the private sector, whether it is profit-making or not. As you can see, the method of the Government and its majority – to get closer to the demands of the various sectors, to better understand them, to dialogue and to act in a climate of trust and responsibility – is bearing fruit. It is by this same method that Annie Chapelier worked to bring this bill before us today. Following the hearings carried out by the rapporteur with all the stakeholders concerned, one observation is necessary: in view of the number of responsibilities entrusted to midwives in recent years, it is essential to change the training accordingly, on the one hand, in order to ensure that women throughout the territory benefit from quality monitoring, on the other hand, in order to enable professionals to best assimilate their new skills. Thus, we welcome the proposal to complete the process of "universitization" of midwifery training. Getting closer to the academic community is indeed a key issue for students in the field, who will be able to coordinate better with other health professions, but also have the same status as other students. The proposed deadlines will, I am sure, make it possible to have a coherent system by 2027. Similarly, we support the creation of a sixth year of study, which, coupled with a global overhaul of the first and second cycles, will allow students to have a more coherent and serene course, and to deepen their skills, while being better prepared for working life. The creation of a master's degree in maieutics, which we have added in committee by amendment, will also help to support the learning of midwives in the field. It will also be a question of reconciling research, teaching and clinical practice for all midwives teaching as researchers, whether they work in the public hospital, in private institutions or in outpatients, and I am delighted at the balance reached on this issue by the three groups of the majority. Finally, we support your proposal to create a new statistical section within INSEE, so that midwives can be recognized as other medical professions and not as an intermediate profession. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] As you have understood, the bill is fully in line with the majority's philosophy: to lift the brakes, to protect, to accompany. The La République en marche group therefore thanks Ms Annie Chapelier for her work of consultation and pedagogy, and will support the text without reservations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u93	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u94	The Republic's health policy is based on the desire to ensure that every woman and every man throughout the country is able to be and remain healthy and to be offered the best conditions for health care and medical and social care. From this perspective, what about our health policy on obstetrics? Two out of three women say they are dissatisfied with their care at the time of delivery, and seven out of ten midwives suffer from depressive symptoms. This ill-being common to professionals and parturients is linked in particular to a very strong medicalization of the birth. Through their demands, midwives want to return to their core business: physiology. Patients, on the other hand, want more personalization and re-appropriation of this moment so special and determining of the life of a mother and her child that is birth. Midwives have a very good profession, but a long-standing profession, which does not always have the consideration it deserves, including from the point of view of training. As for our classification of activities, contrary to the public health code, it does not recognize this profession as a medical profession. Surprisingly, when we think of all that midwives do on a daily basis: births, gynaecological follow-ups, contraception, orthogenia, medically assisted reproduction, perineal rehabilitation, sexual and reproductive prevention. In addition to these tasks, the new tasks assigned to them during this mandate include consultation as a first resort, abortion, contraception, vaccination, prescription of work stoppages and medical devices, detection of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), as well as their role as reference midwife or their role in the homes of birth. Since the skills and new scientific and medical technologies are evolving, a coherent approach to their training in a renovated setting seems necessary. By focusing on training, this text avoids two major pitfalls: on the method, far from legislative mastodons or proposals for erratic laws, it focuses on a clear question; On the bottom, focusing on training, he tackles the basics of the profession and fits into the long term. This is far from trivial, because we know that, in the context of medical desertification, most of the answers will be in training, for all health professions. In general, public health must become more horizontal and collaborative than it is today. The thousands of healthcare professionals in France, from all disciplines, have been trained and graduated. All, medical and paramedical, must be seen as full actors in our health system and its territorial organization. Multidisciplinarity is a wealth, to which it is necessary to give a place of choice to the hospital, as in ambulatory. Too often, health professionals are confined to a trade or specialty where it is extremely difficult to evolve and where it is difficult to leave. This division of trades does not allow today to offer all health professionals a career commensurate with their motivations. The mutual enrichment between medical and paramedical disciplines must take place as soon as possible, from the beginning of the training of health students. This is why it is essential to "universitarize" the training of paramedics to allow all students to integrate the bachelor-master-doctoral courses. Behind this barbarism, it is the attractiveness of training and trades that is at stake. Behind this attraction, it is the beginning of a genuine dialogue and a multidisciplinary and horizontal organisation that are concerned. Behind this organization is the excellence of our research system and access to care in France. For this reason, the rapporteur, the Group of the European People's Party, supports the creation of a third cycle of study and the desire to align the training of midwives with other medical university courses. We are also pleased with the opportunity to take up positions as a teacher-researcher. Our group will therefore vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u95	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u96	Consensus is the word that characterizes this text – consensus on the need to increase the study time of midwives, as the teachings are now condensed. Madam rapporteur, you are doing a useful job of enabling a justified claim to find the legislative path. At the request of the Minister of Solidarity, Health, an IGAS report was submitted in July 2021 and recommends a clarification of the status of midwives and their mission, as well as a more comprehensive upgrading of their profession, involving a re-engineering of their training. It is on this last issue that the text bears. This is in line with a clarification of the prerogatives of midwives and greater recognition of their profession, which seemed necessary at the end of the various hearings that could be conducted. If this text complements and amplifies the mechanisms already announced is a significant step forward, additional work will be required to enable midwives to operate safely and to enjoy the recognition to which they are entitled. We therefore hope, in the near future, for other texts, which are even more ambitious. The creation of a third cycle of training opens up opportunities for research, training and practice for women. For this is what it is about: to offer women qualified and quality staff, professionals in women's lives. Therefore, this university integration has consequences that we must anticipate. The first is financial. Let us understand that the transition to six years of study is perfectly justified and necessary, but the question of the attractiveness of the profession arises. At bac + 5, many already consider that the remuneration is not high enough: what will be at bac + 6? This question must be addressed now, especially as negotiations with representatives of the profession are on the way to a successful conclusion. In addition to the 183 euros awarded by the employing State, there is a bonus to achieve a net monthly increase of 500 euros per month for midwives working in the hospital. However, this is not their only place of exercise, and although we welcome this major step forward, I am sure that we will have to go further. The second consequences are practical. Midwives are the pillars of women's health, especially in rural areas. We will therefore have to draw the consequences of the new title of doctor in maieutics. This status must be a reality, particularly with regard to the right of limitation, which is currently limited in the case of midwives. For example, a woman who requires antibiotics to treat a urinary tract infection may get a prescription from a midwife if she is pregnant, but should consult a doctor if she is not. We are therefore witnessing a double waste, both of taxpayers' money – since two paid consultations are necessary – and of medical time; Since two professionals are solicited. In addition, since we are referring to the skills of midwives, there is an important issue that must alert us, Madam Deputy Minister: that of authorization to perform surgical abortions. Our assembly voted for this experiment 13 months ago and today many professionals are waiting for the relevant regulatory acts to deliver the appropriate training and open up the consultation and exercise slots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u97	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u98	[[Ms. Albane Gaillot applauds]] Our experiment spans three years and the first has just passed. I insist, it becomes urgent, for the sake of women, of their health and – we will discuss it in a few days – in the name of their right to dispose of their bodies, that the regulatory texts of this experiment be published. Both women and midwives expect it: it is a guarantee of their competence. This increase in the skills of midwives, which is being realized through this bill, we all call it our wish. Given the needs of women throughout the country, and the recognition that we owe to this fine midwifery, it is more necessary than ever. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LR groups on the benches of the commissions, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Activité ens]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure and determination that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u99	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u100	For several months, midwives have been carrying their demands on the streets and on strike days. They will be mobilized again this weekend, and I would of course like to sincerely greet them. It is urgent to take the time to listen to those who serve this unrecognized profession and to provide them with answers that match the consideration we owe them. In this respect, I thank our colleague Annie Chapelier for her involvement in this matter. This job isn't annoyance. Midwives accompany mothers and their babies, participate in the transmission of a very special link. And yet, according to the National Midwifery Students Association, seven out of ten Maieutical students suffer from depressive symptoms. Burn-outs are common and 27% of these students have already thought about quitting their studies or reorienting themselves. Exhausted by long-term studies and wages that are inadequate with difficult working conditions, which cause stress, midwives fear that they will mistreat other women and have reason to be concerned. In our maternity wards, as in Annonay, vacancies do not find candidates. In fact, more and more women choose an exercise as a Liberal rather than a hospital, which raises fears of maternity closures. The latter, however, developed for a long time, before, gradually, we saw the closures of small maternity homes in small and medium-sized cities, in the name of an increasingly concentrated view of structures, which can place women in anxiogenic situations. In the end, the profession of midwife is crossed by various paradoxes. Indeed, he suffers a de-consideration in Hexagon, while French midwives, compared to their European counterparts, have richer skills and are given greater responsibilities. The activities of midwives have been growing for many years: with the blatant lack of gynaecologists, they have even become the indispensable relays for women's journeys. The increasing technicality of the support they offer, particularly in the context of new modes of delivery, which reflect new expectations on the part of women and couples, must be taken into account and valued. In addition, in recent years, professionals in parenting have been engaged in new activities outside the traditional scope of pregnancy, such as gynaecological monitoring, contraceptive prescribing, abortion practice, preparation for MPA – reproductive medical assistance – as well as prevention and sexuality education. As we know, midwives are precious. Also, their multiple involvement and skills cannot accommodate an ambivalent status. Although the Public Health Code recognizes the profession of midwife as a medical profession, their acts are only partially recognized in the nomenclatures. In addition, the question of the organization of training in the midwifery profession has been raised for several years. Indeed, while since 2002 the duration of studies has increased from four to five years with the generalization of the follow-up of the first year of medicine, the following four years are carried out in thirty-five different specialized schools. Of these thirty-five schools, twenty-four still operate according to regional regulation and funding, while eleven have opted for university funding, which creates a detrimental disparity. The inadequacy of the training of midwives with the demand to enrich their skills therefore deserved to be put forward in the parliamentary debate. In this regard, several changes are introduced by this bill. The university integration of training, provided for in Article 1, is essential in order, as I said, to combat inequalities between the various schools. By giving universities the competence to approve and finance schools, the legislator strengthens the medical status of midwives, provided, of course, that guarantees on the conditions for this transfer of regulation are provided. The creation of a post-graduate degree in article 2 constituted a strong demand for the profession. This will increase the knowledge of midwives about neonatalogy and new technologies used in maieutics and perinatality, and combine clinical practice and teaching and research, as many medical professions can already do. On the other hand, the Socialist and Related Group considers that training should also be provided for post-natal interviews, introduced in article 44 of the PLFSS for 2022. As for the legislative consecration of the medical status of midwives, provided for in Article 4, it will allow us to finally be in agreement with the changes in competences required of them. However, training reform is only part of the response to the feeling of midwives being downgraded and the shock of attractiveness that the profession needs. A much more valuable view of the evolution of the profession needs to be developed, since the increase of 500 euros per month announced by the Government is based on a bonus of 240 euros, which is not part of the calculation of the retirement pension, which, like any bonus, is random and does not directly address the issue of wages and career developments. We regret, therefore, that the establishment of a genuine hospital practitioner status for midwives has yet to find a positive response to the Government. We see it on a daily basis in our constituencies, with the risk that our fellow citizens will be closed to maternity, the difficulties associated with the practice of midwifery are too serious for us not to take strong measures. Thus, despite these reservations, and because the reform of training is expected by midwives, the Socialist and related group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u101	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u102	Chronic and screaming understaffing leading to job exhaustion, non-recognition of the status of hospital practitioner, too low pay for their skills and level of training: these are the working conditions of midwives who, despite everything, accompany women throughout their lives, as well as newborns and families, both in the hospital and in the city. In this context, their claims, expressed in recent years, are legitimate and must be fully heard. They argue for an overall increase in remuneration, integration into the university career, a redefinition and extension of their skills and a change in their status. These requests have been incorporated into Annie Chapelier's bill – which we warmly thank – which we enthusiastically welcome for midwives, but also, above all, for all the women in our country. First, it provides for university integration of midwifery training and makes it possible to carry out practical internships with university traineeships. These internships are important in that they constitute an initial situation in an outpatient setting and represent an opportunity for the territories suffering from a shortage of practitioners and practitioners to promote or facilitate their installation. Secondly, the bill seeks to strengthen the extended skills of midwives, with the creation of a third cycle of university studies, which will allow a research and teaching activity to be linked to a clinical practice of the profession. Above all, midwifery will now be truly recognized as a medical profession in its own right. However, will this text really respond to the suffering of midwives, who demand above all the improvement of their working conditions, in order to guarantee the safety and quality of care of patients? The bill comes after the announcement of a salary increase of 500 euros per month for midwives, which, in fact, includes the revalorisation provided for by the Ségur de la santé, paid since December 2020, and which is half allocated in the form of a bonus – which is not included in the calculation of pension entitlements and is, moreover, subject to a duty of presence. It should also be noted that this wage increase does not apply to midwives in the territorial civil service, i.e. who work in PMI – maternal and child protection – nor to those who work as liberals or as hospital contractors. Thus, the parliamentarians of the collective Ecology democracy solidarity see this upgrading as a first step in the evolution of the profession, but that does not fully meet the needs of professionals and patients. I would add that midwives remain waiting for the decree on experimentation to allow them to practice instrumental IVGs – I wanted to remind them. The measures contained in the bill must therefore be guaranteed that the structures are adequately staffed and that women's health needs are effectively met throughout the country. These guarantees will ensure the full recognition of midwives, commensurate with their skills and the essential nature of their work. [[Mrs Albane Gaillot and Mr Olivier Becht applaud]] The rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for our public hospital and its users, in order to ensure access to quality care for everyone everywhere, we must change our paradigm. Health democracy, the satisfaction of the needs of patients and patients, the right care, prevention, governance at the service of the patient and no longer the cost-effectiveness of the acts, access to both city and hospital care: these are the projects that we must also start so that the midwives, as well as all the professionals of the care, find pleasure in exercising.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u103	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u104	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u105	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u106	First of all, I would like to thank our colleague Annie Chapelier, the author of the bill, who is a certain step forward with regard to the training and status of midwives. As the explanatory memorandum indicates, this is a significant step, but it is not intended to meet all the demands of this medical profession. I can only welcome the contributions of Article 1, on the academic integration of midwifery training. However, questions remain, particularly about the fate of professionals forming future midwives, namely midwives teaching. What will their future be? In view of the current level of demand, the training of young midwives should include a bi-membership for teachers, so that, regardless of their degree, they can combine teaching and research at university with professional activity. They must also be provided with a level of pay that is consistent with their skills and at least equal to that of their clinical or supervisory counterparts in the hospital. Much remains to be done: in total, between 2020 and 2021, only twenty midwives were qualified as a teacher-researcher in maieutics following the creation of a section dedicated to this specialty – section 90 – within the National Council of Universities (CNU). Currently, according to CNSF, only two midwives are lecturers in maieutics and only one is a university professor. It is therefore urgent to provide for a measure allowing midwives teaching to qualify for bi-membership in clinical practice and in teaching and research, regardless of their degree. Similarly, as you mentioned, there should be reflections between the state, regions and universities on how to finance the training of midwives integrated into university. As a corollary, there is the question of extending the indexary treatment supplement to hospital midwives made available to universities, since they are currently excluded from this salary adjustment scheme. By finding a lasting solution for midwives teaching, we will complete the academic integration of midwives, whom we all wish, with you, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u107	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u108	Madam rapporteur, thank you for your work, because we know that we must have defended a long-term text in order for it to be voted on here. Of course, the work is not finished, but I hope it will succeed, with the passage of the text in the Senate and then at second reading here. I would like to take this opportunity to explain in what spirit we are approaching the discussion. The La France group, whose only representative I am at the moment, will vote for the text. If we objected to the application of the simplified examination procedure, it was in order to allow a time for debate, beyond the question of training, on the whole profession. We have therefore tabled amendments and editorial sub-amendments, in order to open the discussion, because our other amendments have been declared inadmissible – either because they could create or aggravate a public office, or because they would have been legislative riders. I am waiting this morning for an answer – yours, Madam rapporteur, but above all that of the Minister Delegate – on the rate of supervision during childbirths in maternity wards and on the other ratios provided for in the decrees on perinatality which date from 9 October 1998 and which the CNSF, the CNGOF and the Société française de pédiatrie unanimously ask for the rehabilitation, because this is the key to the problem! It is hoped that the training measures that you propose will be successful in 2027 when all midwives will be able to benefit from six years of training, but they will not solve a much more immediate problem: wear, burn-out in maternity, clinic or hospital. It is clear that it is by giving midwives the opportunity to do their job better, by giving them time to breathe, that they will not constantly run away from the ill-being that undermines the profession. This requires a revision of the decrees of 9 October 1998, unanimously requested. What are your positions on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u109	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u110	I welcome the considerable work done by the rapporteur to improve the working conditions of midwives. Most of our ridings have public hospitals, which accommodate mothers, couples, families, but whose staff are in great distress, we know. We are fortunate in Tourcoing to have a team of experienced, highly dedicated midwives. They bring a little soul supplement at the very beginning of life, at the time of birth, which must not be neglected and which must be as benevolent as possible, ensuring the comfort and safety of mother and child. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I am therefore grateful for the work done to improve training. I have heard the Government's announcements to enhance this profession; It's good news, because it wasn't enough in the past. On behalf of the entire team of midwives in Tourcoing, whose spokesperson I am speaking for, I would therefore like to say a big thank you to the rapporteur, but also to the minister responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u111	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u112	I thank all the speakers for their statements both in the general discussion and on Article 1. There is a clear consensus in favour of this bill. However, I would like to put it in context in response to the questions raised by Mrs Ali and Mr Ruffin. It deals with the training of midwives, a question that is constantly pushed back, when we look at the evolution of the health professions, because we always deal with symptoms and not causes – you will excuse me for this medical image. For this bill, which was part of a parliamentary niche, I had to make a choice, because the first bill that I had tabled, aimed at changing the midwifery profession, had twenty-six articles and dealt almost comprehensively with all the issues affecting it. In the end, my choice was about training, because that's how we can really change things in the long run. The other requests, concerning the situation of midwives, their status, their powers and decrees on perinatality – I quite agree with your comments on them, Mr Ruffin – are not at the heart of this bill. It is therefore neither the place nor the time to deal with them, even if one may want to seize every opportunity to speak about this magnificent profession and all the difficulties it encounters. Mrs Ali, the problem of teachers should be solved through Article 4 of this text. Indeed, we create an ad hoc status, by extending the status of bi-membership to the entire private and liberal sector; That was not the case so far. We'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u113	The rapporteur's amendment No 36, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 53, is drafting. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support sub-amendment No 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u114	Madam rapporteur, I understand the limited nature of the text and I respect your choice, because that is the only way to bring a bill to fruition. However, you are asking me if this is the place, the time, to talk about the rate of patient supervision during childbirth. But what other place, what other time do we have for that? If I don't do it right now, here, I won't do it this year, or by the end of my term of office. You know me, I won't let go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u115	Unfortunately...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u116	I look forward to a reply from the Government, from the Minister-in-Charge, on the supervisory rate, because it is the keystone. By improving it, we would give the midwives time, a breath, during childbirth. Midwives tell us they don't have time for lunch. They run, they don't have a minute of their own and it helps create burn-outs. This constraint also applies when they perform medical acts, such as episiotomy. "An episio is done quickly," they tell us. This saves several minutes of work when the head passes through the perineum. If you want to avoid slamming a muscle, you would have to take more time, especially since an episio can be quickly cut, in ten minutes. For lack of time, we are more involved. » If we want to get out of medicalization and, on this international day to combat violence against women, avoid such violence – for in essence episiotomy, when it is not medically necessary, and constitutes only a gain of time is unnecessary violence against women's bodies – we must give time, so that the world is not a medical act, but a relational one, with tenderness in gestures and words. However, this depends on the rate of supervision which is defined by the decrees on perinatality of 9 October 1998.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u118	Your sub-amendment is to add the words "of these institutions" after the word "health". I ask you to withdraw it; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable, as this would create confusion between health institutions and academic institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u119	The subamendment has been withdrawn!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u120	As for your arrest,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u121	Since the sub-amendment has been withdrawn, there is no need to continue the debate on the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u122	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u123	The aim of Mrs Forteza's amendment is to include in the training of midwives a component on the prevention of obstetric and gynaecological violence, on which awareness of the medical profession and of society as a whole is needed. I will take the example of episiotomies: 50% of women who have suffered them denounce a lack of explanation and accompaniment. The root of the problem is the recognition of such violence, its characterization and prevention. They must no longer be invisible. So let's give the medical profession more resources for this. This amendment, if presented during the examination of this text, is in fact an appeal and concerns the whole medical profession, the whole of society. Midwives themselves explain that their conditions of exercise sometimes lead to preventable obstetrical and gynaecological violence. The university integration of their training must help to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u125	You propose to introduce specific training on the prevention of obstetric and gynaecological violence. Article 1 concerns university integration; the question would find a more appropriate place in Article 2. In addition, it seems to us much more relevant to propose to the regulatory power the definition of educational content. It is not up to us to set the exact form for the first, second and third cycles. Of course, I can only agree with your comments on obstetrical and gynaecological violence; We're doing the same thing. However, it is not within the competence of the National Assembly to define the curriculum, the teaching content and the repositories of training. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u127	I would add that the current framework for the training of midwives, which is part of the regulatory process, includes several items on the prevention of violence against women, their screening and their epidemiology. In addition, the Government has announced the launch of a mission to determine the operational modalities for the establishment of the sixth year of studies in Maieutics, which will allow the evaluation of existing teachings – because they do exist! I would also like to point out that these lessons are part of a cross-cutting framework for other health professionals. We cannot therefore define its content too precisely today. Through this mission, we want to focus on the areas to be strengthened in the training of midwives that we build with professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u128	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u129	I would not want this to become a repeat gag, Madam Deputy Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u130	It's always your gag!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u131	...but I asked you about the 1998 perinatal decrees. Does the Government intend to increase the rate of attendance at childbirth rapidly? I will give you a specific example, because it has very concrete effects for midwives who do this every day. In the delivery room of the Victor-Pauchet clinic in Amiens, a midwife is mobilized by a pathological pregnancy; the second midwife – since they are two – takes care of a Caesarean section. It sounds, it sounds, it sounds: a room calls, but they can't go out, they're both stuck. It's still ringing. After an hour, they end up going out. A woman screams to death: the fetus was expelled – what was planned – but it remained almost an hour in the mother's hands already under the shock of being losing a child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u132	Mr. President, that's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u133	It's gore, but that's what midwives live when they're two in the delivery room. I go into the details, because that is what creates the wear and tear of the job and gives them the feeling of mistreating women rather than providing them with the necessary support they demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u134	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u135	I ask you, what are you going to do? Will the Government demand that there be two, three or four midwives in the delivery room?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u136	That's not possible. We're tired of your speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u137	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u138	I think the subject is important enough not to get into polemics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u139	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u140	The aim of this appeal amendment is to raise the issue of obstetrical and gynaecological violence before national representatives and those who listen to us, taking advantage of this legislative vehicle. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] Like the rapporteur, I have met many times with midwives' orders and unions, who wish to be able to accompany women in better conditions throughout their entire health journey. To alert us, they even created the hashtag # jesuismalcontractor, by which they denounce the shortage of staff. Yes, there is a risk of abuse, but midwives do not want to be abused; they recognize that the means announced and the negotiations initiated are in the right direction. That effort must be continued. The aim of this appeal amendment is to highlight an invisible subject that women and midwives do not talk about, but which is nevertheless a major subject. We must take this into account so that it ends, and that midwives and health professionals who accompany women can do so under the best health and ethical conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u141	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u142	I agree with my colleague. We understand that this is an appeal amendment, but it has the merit of raising an important question: while the subject of violence against women in society is now relatively well known, discussed, accepted and visible, that of gynaecological and obstetric violence remains taboo, for reasons mentioned by some previous speakers. It would be an honour for women to put this question on the job. [[Ms. Albane Gaillot applauds]] Is the answer in the adaptation of the competency framework in the sixth year of study? I don't know. But since we are in the Chamber, in which we can speak on the issues that we consider important, and since this is directly related to the bill, I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u143	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u144	On this World Day to Combat Violence against Women, an amendment calling against obstetrical and gynaecological violence, which is too little known and against which it is essential to fight, seems to me quite commendable. However, I repeat, we are in the process of drafting the future training structure for the profession to enable midwives to work better, and I do not think that we will change the situation by adding to the text provisions that are regulatory rather than legislative. Thank you for alerting us, but I reiterate my request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u145	The rapporteur's editorial amendment No 37 is not supported. It is the subject of a sub-amendment No 54. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u146	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] I want a response on the birth supervision rate and the 1998 perinatal decrees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u147	I don't have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u148	This answer is not only to me, a Member of Parliament, but also to the National Assembly, the National Council of the Order of Midwives and the societies of gynaecologists, obstetricians and paediatricians, all calling for an increase in the rate of attendance at childbirth. This rate has daily consequences for midwives. It's an essential fact. When one reads, in Le Monde, a midwife student explains this: "I was watching myself, and I thought I was being miscontracted to myself. I felt like I was entering the war zone. During the twelve hours on duty, she explained, she could neither go to the toilet nor eat: every minute had to be profitable. Madam Deputy Minister, why are you shaking your head? I'm not the one who invented it, this testimony,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u149	I've had enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u150	We can always find evidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u151	...I just want to get an answer: is the Government planning to take action on the rate of attendance at childbirth?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u153	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Mr Ruffin, could we move forward constructively together in a parliamentary debate that has been intended to be consensual since this morning? We have announced many advances for midwives, with whom we work. In addition, the bill complements the work we have undertaken on the upgrading and recognition of these professionals. Your media, television and film pleadings no longer impress me. I'm tired of you watching all the vulnerabilities in society. You've moved from housekeepers to life attendants. Today, they are midwives; Tomorrow, what will it be?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u156	The garbagemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u157	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] [[Smile on the same benches]] We are working for them in a pragmatic way: we are recognizing them and improving their profession, which had not been done for fifteen years. I'm willing to accept all the criticism, but that's enough now! Do your work as a parliamentarian and stop doing movies, Mr. Ruffin. I'll answer you, but anyway, you won't listen to the answer: as usual, you already have your arm in the air! You see it's no use. In response to the perinatal decree, a technical group bringing together all the actors – who have been working for several months – has been set up, but at this stage there is no consensus between them. We're not gonna act like we are. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Furthermore, I would like to point out that the rate of attendance at childbirth is among the highest in Europe, ranging from six full-time equivalents of midwives for maternity wards of less than 500 births to twenty-six for maternity wards of more than 5000 births. I'm not saying it's the wonderful world of the Bisounours, but sometimes you have to say what's right in our country. Take off your glasses, definitely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u158	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u159	I did not intend to intervene, but I am led by the Deputy Minister's answer. Yes, all groups will vote for this bill, which extends the duration of studies to become midwives, which will allow them to be considered a full medical profession, which is not currently the case and is a claim of representative organizations. But it's just one part of the subject. Do not associate the consensus on the bill with a consensus on all the measures taken by the Government with regard to midwives, including those announced this week on remuneration, which midwives themselves reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u160	They've all signed! Only the CGT is against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u161	If the midwives were satisfied with your salary proposals, they would not organize a strike this weekend and would not plan a "black week" in the maternity wards between December 24 and 31 – knowing that, even on strike, they continue to work to carry out their missions. They have all my solidarity, and I'll be with them in the maternity wards this weekend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u162	I don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u163	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u164	Madam Deputy Minister, when I repeat here the testimony of the midwives in my home, I do my work as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u165	No, you're doing movies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u166	It's a show!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u167	When I point out the 1998 decrees, I do my work as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u168	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u169	You're making money on the poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u170	When I relay the consensus between the National Council of the Order of Midwives, the National College of Midwives of France, the National College of French Gynaecologists and Obstetricians and the French Paediatric Society, I do my work as a parliamentarian. When I come to ask a question I don't get an answer to...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u171	I gave it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u172	...and that I ask the question, I do my work as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u173	We have to listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u174	When, at last, I get an answer that doesn't suit me...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u175	Ah! There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u176	No, it does not suit me, Madam Deputy Minister, because you are hiding behind the lack of consensus between the various actors in order not to act on what is the keystone of the improvement of childbirths in all the maternity wards of the country. [["No!" on several benches of the LaREM group]] I am doing my work as a parliamentarian, but I have the impression that you, for your part, are not working in sufficient depth. It's my mission, and I'm fulfilling it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u177	You're the agitator!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u178	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u179	It aims to extend the scope of the report requested in Article 1er on the university integration of midwifery training to the consequences of such integration in terms of working conditions and remuneration. I would have preferred to deal with the matter in the context of the bill. But since this is not possible, it seems to me that the report would be a good way to work on a good basis and would offer us a broader view of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u181	It would be very interesting to assess the impact of university integration on the working conditions and remuneration of midwives. However, such an evaluation can only be carried out after university integration has been completed. Since the report is to be submitted within six months of the enactment of the law, I find your request unrealizable. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u183	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u184	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u185	I understand, but the assessment already provided for in paragraph 11 that my complete amendment will not be exhaustive if it does not take into account, first of all, the full consequences of integration on remuneration and conditions of exercise. In six months, it is easy to evaluate them; It's not a delay problem. I maintain my amendment, because we must show midwives that we are looking at the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u186	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u187	The public discussion of the proposed law on the development of midwifery training is an opportunity to continue the work started from the beginning of the quinquennium to better recognize the essential role and valuable tasks of midwives. On 17 November the Committee on Social Affairs unanimously adopted this bill; Four identical amendments, by the rapporteur and the groups Acting together, the Republic on the Move and the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, allowed the inclusion of Article 1a, which creates a status of university traineeship for midwives. This new article enriches a bill, the aim of which is to change the whole of training. Internships are a key moment in the learning of maieutical students. Article 1a will, in particular, make it possible to develop the framework and support of the latter. This provision will in particular make it possible to develop internships in outpatients. The profession of midwife is no longer limited to the only accompaniment of birth, but also allows for the gynaecological follow-up of all healthy women and the prescription of contraception. Midwives also work in orthogenia, medically assisted reproduction, perinatal rehabilitation, prevention and education. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, the dramatic progress of scientific and medical techniques illustrates the expansion of skills and the expansion of the profession's missions. The training of midwives must therefore be commensurate with the multiplicity and diversity of their tasks. This change necessarily requires a pedagogical adjustment of the studies in maieutics, with particular attention to the practical training which occupies a large part of it. The creation of an internship master's status for midwives will provide the necessary guidance and support for maieutics students, so that they can enter a medical profession of the highest possible quality. The La République group will, of course, vote without reservation on Article 1a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u188	On Article 1e r bis, I am seized by the La République en marche group of Members of the European Parliament of a request for a public ballot. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur's amendment No 38 is a co-ordination amendment. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u189	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u190	[[Smile]] Mr François Ruffin has the floor. For once, I insist that you take the floor, we have time before we can vote on the article! You're doing everybody a favor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u191	No, no! Silence is sometimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u192	Madam Minister Delegate, with regard to decrees on perinatality, we have joined the National Council of Midwives; He told us that there had been a working group, but that no further working meeting was planned on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u193	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u194	In addition, he indicates that in the United Kingdom there are twice as many midwives per delivery as in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u195	It's not the same social system!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u196	I put Rule 1a to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u197	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 64 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u198	On Articles 2 and 3, I am seized by the La République en marche group of a request for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u199	Mrs Aurore Bergé, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u200	Madam Deputy Minister, the rapporteur, thank you for examining the bill, which is essential. It is important, because better recognizing and valuing the role of midwives is simply a better understanding of the health and care path of all women. It is a cause that should bring us all together and singularly today. I know how much, Madam rapporteur, you are extremely attentive to the issues of combating violence against women. Article 2 was a very strong demand on the part of midwives, particularly those who are currently pursuing their studies or who wish to resume a course of study. Again, it is not entertainment policy or cinema, but it is very concrete progress on the upgrading of wages and careers and on the better recognition of their skills. With the proposal for a law by our colleague Stéphanie Rist, we have already made some progress, but Article 2 allows, in a very significant way, the creation of a sixth year of studies, as well as the reaffirmation of the physiological knowledge of midwives, the deepening of the knowledge relating to pathologies and neonatality, the development of knowledge on new technologies and techniques in the exercise of maieutics. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group – Olivier Becht also applauds]] A decisive step could thus be taken. I hope that Article 2 will be adopted unanimously, because it is a legitimate and expected request. It is important that we finally take a new step to improve very concretely the training, knowledge and recognition of the essential role that midwives play in the lives of women and infants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u201	We come to the amendments. The rapporteur's amendment No 39 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u202	The rapporteur's amendment No 40 is drafting. It is the subject of Subamendments Nos 55, 47, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 58 by Mr François Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u203	They're withdrawn, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u204	I call Mrs Perrine Goulet to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u205	It aims to provide clarification for midwives already in exercise who would like to support a graduate degree. It must be noted that the transitional provisions governing the creation of the post-graduate degree, which are enshrined in Article 2, are not only conditional, but also limited to female students. It is therefore a matter of providing for a decree to establish transitional provisions and diplomas for professionals already in exercise, in order to fill a possible legal vacuum, so that all midwives can eventually be at the same level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u207	Mrs Goulet, you are asking us about something that can actually raise questions. However, I would ask you once again to withdraw the amendment, which I think is finally satisfactory for the reasons that I am going to present to you. First of all, we have adopted an amendment in committee which provides that, of course, midwives will be able to continue to practise with their state diploma of midwifery, in coexistence with the new arrivals who will have a state diploma of doctor in maieutics. This co-existence is natural in the evolution of the training of the health professions in general. For example, the specialty of psychiatric nurses has disappeared, but they have continued to practice. Their degree as such has never ceased to be recognized, although it ended up disappearing with the extinction of the profession. This is exactly what will happen for the holders of the state midwife's degree: when all generations have ceased to practice, there will be only doctors in Maieutics; In the meantime, the two diplomas will coexist. Secondly, with regard to midwives who would like to move to the state diploma of doctor in maieutics, we must go through continuing training. There are already mechanisms, but they should be developed; It will come in a second phase. In any event, your amendment does not answer this legitimate question. Therefore, request for withdrawal, if not unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u209	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u210	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u211	Thank you, rapporteur. I still have a small question, and that is why I wanted to have time to discuss a subject which I have mentioned a little in the general discussion: if tomorrow, doctors in Maieutics had the possibility to prescribe to all women, whether pregnant or not, midwives who do not have the diploma of doctor in Maieutics would remain under the old statute and could not carry out such prescriptions. [[Ms. Deputy Minister acquiesce]] The aim of the amendment is to examine the differences which could have daily consequences between midwives with the current diploma and those who will be doctors in maieutics and who will therefore have other possibilities. You're telling me that this is covered by the bill; Why not? I'm not sure; We must not lose sight of that point. Madam Deputy Minister, can you verify that there will be no time lag in the future, with dual-level midwives, those who might prescribe and those who might not? It is important to stabilize this point. I believe that she will do what is necessary to ensure that there is no mismatch between the two situations. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u212	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u213	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 67 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u214	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle, on Rule 3, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u215	The article provides that midwives with a PhD may be eligible for bi-membership: clinical practice on the one hand, teaching and research on the other. In committee, the drafting has been modified in order to open up the possibility of reconciling research, teaching and clinical practice for all midwives: teachers, researchers, whether working in public hospitals, in private institutions or in outpatients. By promoting the access of midwives to research, Article 3 is in line with the Government's announcements – I am thinking of Olivier Véran's announcement on Monday, November 22 on the 500-euro net salary increase – and in line with the reforms adopted during the legislature to improve the profession and training of midwives. The research in maieutics is out of order. The status of midwife teacher-researcher was created in October 2019. While this novelty represents a step forward for the recognition of maieutics in the academic world, its application faces several difficulties: first, the IGAS notes that the main flaw of this novelty lies in the absence of a status of hospital and university bi-membership, as it exists in medicine and pharmacy. The possibility for teachers-researchers in maieutics to benefit from a cumulation of activity exists, but this is not legal since it is subject to authorisation and decision by the director of the hospital. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, when it is practiced, this cumulation is not accompanied by a salary valorisation, as is the case for hospital practitioners. However, the impossibility of reconciling clinical and research activities isolating the world of research and teaching from that of the field, contrary to good practice. This is why it is wise to develop a form of bi-membership that combines the clinic, research and teaching. True to its commitment to the midwifery profession, the presidential majority will vote in favour of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u217	We come to the amendments. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u218	It is editorial, but I would like to take this opportunity to respond to what Mr Pételle has said. I would like to speak because we do not measure the societal impact and the consequences of these modest sections through this modest bill. Bringing physiology back to the heart of birth, by allowing midwives to carry out research on the maieutics, physiology of childbirth and the reproductive health of women, is what we are doing at this very moment through these modest articles on this extremely difficult profession, which has been removed from its core business. As you know, it was because his mother was a midwife that Socrates used the term maieutics to illustrate the idea of having people give birth to their ideas. This measure finally gives women their rightful place in our society; It takes into account what it means to give life, to ensure transmission and perpetuation. It's about thinking about how we welcome new humans. It changes everything, fundamentally. I repeat: Article 3 may seem to be of little importance, but it creates an ad hoc status that allows for dual membership; It opens up more opportunities to reconcile teaching and research activities with clinical activities, in the liberal sector, in outpatients and, above all, in the homes of birth. This will really bring this profession of great nobility back to its core business.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u219	I put to the vote Rule 3, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u220	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 69 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u221	The rapporteur's amendment No 42 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u222	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 9 and 8, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u223	They aim to advance the entry into force of the provisions of Article 4, which provides for the creation of a class specific to midwives in the group of activities devoted to medical professions, which currently concerns the professions of doctor and dental surgeon. That's a good measure. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam rapporteur, to thank you for defending this bill. This work raises strong expectations among midwives and needs to be taken into account. This provision responds to a long-standing, legitimate claim by midwives. Why therefore wait two years to bring this text into force and to amend the nomenclatures so as to enshrine the recognition of the specificity of the midwifery profession? My two amendments therefore aim to reduce this deadline to six months for one and one year for the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u224	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u225	I can only share your impatience for this change to be implemented. First, I want to correct one point in your summary statement: changes to the nomenclatures should not have a direct effect on midwives' remuneration. However, this is a major symbolic contribution by the place they give to midwives in social classifications. Once again, I ask you to withdraw your amendments, failing which I shall deliver an unfavourable opinion. Indeed, this change takes some time. INSEE makes long-term comparisons between series; It takes a moment to articulate them, which requires a delay of more than six months. We are all aware of the technical and administrative difficulties that must be overcome in order to move forward. So I share your impatience, but I ask you to be realistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u226	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and act together on a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u227	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 4. Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u228	It aims to facilitate the installation of maieutical students and midwives who have graduated in the sub-donated territories, for example by drawing on measures gradually applied for medical students, including public service contracts (PSECs). Nearly 2 million women between the ages of 15 and 49 live in a subdensity of midwives. In order to combat this territorial inequality, we propose to study the means of gradually achieving a better distribution in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u230	As I explained during the examination in committee, I share your willingness to facilitate the installation of students in maieutics and professionals in densely populated areas. However, we discussed this subject at length during the committee's consideration of the bill on a health accessible to all and against medical desertification; The definition of subdensity areas will have to evolve. Your amendment therefore seeks to request a report on a data item that will be amended. On the other hand, the measures you call for, such as the CESP, can only be fully implemented after the completion of university integration, so not until 2027. Again, the request for a report is premature. Finally, I do not want us to broaden the scope of the text by including reports. Indeed, we hope for a consistent vote in the Senate, so that the law will come into force as quickly as possible. But you know the antipathy that our honourable senators have for reporting. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable. However, on the occasion of the defence of your amendment, I would like to ask the Government to tell us now what measures it intends to take to encourage students and midwives to settle in the areas concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u232	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u233	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u234	Since the request is being taken into account and will be acted upon, I shall withdraw Amendment No 1. Indeed, it is important not to postpone the vote on the bill. Hopefully everything that is possible will be done in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u235	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u236	It is intended to request a report. The text provides for the university integration of midwifery training, in accordance with the demand of the entire profession. It seems essential to establish a precise monitoring of its implementation. Indeed, the report on the evolution of the midwifery profession, published in July 2021 by the IGAS, mentions a circular from the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care (DGOS) dated 2012, which already set a goal for the full integration of midwifery training by 2017. In 2021, of the thirty-five midwifery schools, only eleven were reportedly transferred to university, sometimes incompletely. The amendment therefore seeks to request that the Government submit to Parliament a report assessing the effectiveness of university integration of midwifery training. This report differs from the one proposed by the rapporteur during the examination in committee, which is now included in Article 1, paragraph 11, and aims to identify disparities in integration and the conditions for success. Such a state of affairs is necessary but must be followed up with effect. We are therefore asking for an ex post review of integration. The two reports are therefore complementary. The request must be submitted within three years of the entry into force of the scheme, which is to be completed in 2027, in order to have the necessary step back to reflect the progress between the state of the premises and the assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u238	Mrs Valérie Six, who tabled this amendment, defended a similar one in committee. I told him that the three-year delay was far too long. Indeed, we hope that the academic integration that we all call for will be initiated as early as 2022. So there would be a problem of contemporaneity. I propose that you withdraw the amendment, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u240	Same opinion. He's satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u241	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u242	Our colleague draws our attention to the haemorrhage of people who leave the training before they have completed it. An article published by Le Monde quotes a student who says that her promotion had been renamed Koh-Lanta, because of the number of abandonments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u243	Yes, there was one who said that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u244	I interviewed midwives from Amiens, one of whom explained to me that his 2017 promotion included thirty-five students at the beginning and nineteen at the end, only ten of whom entered the hospital or clinic. Four of them made a burn-out. So, out of the thirty-five students who left, six perform deliveries in clinics or hospitals, in maternity services. The measures provided for in your text will begin to take effect in 2023 and will end in 2027. How can we stop this bleeding right now? I hear that wage increases are planned, but there is still much to be done against the ill-being of female students – I designate them to the female, because they are massively women – and midwives. What to do so that it doesn't take thirty-five people at the start to have four at the finish? Even economically, it's a gabegie. From a social point of view, I would add that these people lose their vocation along the way. What do we do now to heal this wound?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u245	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u246	I have co-signed the amendment, but I am not at the origin of it, so I am maintaining it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u247	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u248	I have discussed it with the rapporteur and it contains a drafting error, so I will withdraw it. However, I would like to take this opportunity to warn about the glaring lack of midwives, which he was trying to remedy. The hospital lacks arms and the medical deserts are under the spotlight. Since the beginning of 2020, the numerus clausus has gradually left its place to the numerus apertus i.e. a clausus numerus capable of increasing in time. From a national quota of students admitted in the second year to a long-term, field-based target. A national conference assessed the needs for the next five years. On average, by 2027, 2 to 4% more students would have to be trained in maieutics – this is only an average. The midwifery profession is experiencing a real problem of numbers, especially in hospitals. As Mr Ruffin pointed out, the standards date back to 1998 and are no longer really adapted to the reality of the activity. It is estimated that about 1,000 midwives are missing. It is necessary to empower schools and universities to train enough professionals to ensure that the care of future mothers is adequate and safe. The real problem is not a question of numerus clausus or numerus apertus, but of the capacity to receive health training. If not addressed, the removal of the numerus clausus will not be effective and will not solve anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u249	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u250	It aims at lifting the pledge of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u252	Favourable opinion. As we complete our consideration of the bill, I thank all parliamentarians present, as well as those who have withdrawn their amendments, to bring the discussion back to the heart of the topic: the training of midwives. Even if this text does not solve all the problems they encounter, we put the first stone. Above all, we do things in order, because starting with training means allowing the development of trades adapted to our times and to the needs of our society. Many requests for the adoption of decrees have been made, relating to perinatality, abandonment during studies, difficulty working. Mr Ruffin, I thank you once again, in this respect, for withdrawing your amendments in favour of a more measured position. This profession is difficult, because it touches the intimate: it is easy to be carried away by provocation, as long as one expresses oneself on what makes the daily life of this profession. Although it is not customary to mention his personal experiences, I have worked for thirty years in maternity wards and I know the difficulties inherent in the midwifery profession. I know the ill-being of women who give birth and feel dispossessed: currently, one in four women say they are dispossessed and dissatisfied with their delivery, not because of the absence of competent personnel, but because they feel that they are being evicted from their work by heavy burdens and that they are no longer able to cope. Thus, the reform of the training of midwives will allow us to move towards the adequacy we seek. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Thank you all, for all the women who will have children in the years to come, with these new midwives and their sisters – the nearly 25,000 current midwives, who will evolve in concert with the new students – for, I hope, better births.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u253	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Olivier Becht.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u254	The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this beautiful bill, even if it does not solve all the problems of the midwifery profession, which suffers a profound ill-being, like many professions in the medical sector, in hospitals and in clinics, which work under complicated conditions. This text is part of the very positive policy pursued by the Government and by the presidential majority in favour of this profession, particularly with regard to the salary revalorisation within the framework of the Secur de la santé, since midwives in hospital will benefit from a revalorisation of their remuneration of 500 euros per month. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] Other measures will certainly follow, which are not covered by the law but by the decree. Everyone is in their role: we legislate and the Government settles other matters by decree. This text, on the training of midwives, is already a great recognition and opens a way for asserting their medical status: we call on everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u255	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u256	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on a few benches of the Action ens group]] We join in these congratulations, recognizing all the work you have done. Our group will of course vote in favour of this bill. As you said, it is a first stone and the formation is of great importance. However, much remains to be done to enhance the role of midwives and their dedication to the service of women. We hope that this first stone will be followed by many others and that all the necessary steps will be taken to recognize, in its entirety, the work done by midwives, especially for the health of women. It's essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u257	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u258	The midwife's profession is like a broken hospital. We see this every day, with the emergency services that close and the ill-being of caregivers: in the service of women, children and the elderly, they feel that they are ill-treated, because they are in a hurry of time and have to move from one patient to another. Of course, we will vote in favour of this bill. However, it provides for an additional year of training for 2023, 2024, 2025, 2027, which could lead to an evolution of the profession. But we have to deal with the problem – here and now – of mal-being on a daily basis in clinics, maternity clinics, hospitals, delivery rooms: we support this text, even if it is not enough. Essentially, the 1998 decrees on perinatality were reviewed. I ask for the video – according to the dedicated football expression – and the fact-checking of the statements of the Associate Minister, who said that the reform would not take place during this quinquennium and that there was no consensus. However, some documents show that the National Council of the Order of Midwives, the Collège national des midwives de France, the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français and the Société française de pédiatrie have agreed. On the one hand, we are told that the meetings are complex, but, on the other hand, there is no meeting or working group in progress on this central issue. Finally, we are told that the rate of supervision would be one of the highest in France. However, according to the United Nations Population Fund – the official source – twice as many midwives are present in France, for each birth, than in Great Britain, five times less than in Ireland and three times less than in Belgium: it is imperative to raise the rate of delivery supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u259	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u260	We will vote in favour of this bill, with good heart, with both hands and without hesitation. Just as the texts abolishing the numerus clausus do not change the number of doctors in practice today, the law will only have its effect in a few years, since it concerns training. Motherhoods are on strike, the profession is suffering and we have to answer for it. The answers provided so far are not satisfactory either from a wage or from a statutory point of view. It is necessary to recognize the medical nature of the profession, which is currently solely responsible for it, both from the salary point of view and by allowing a mixed activity in the hospital and in the city, among other things. The midwives I met in my constituency also raised the issue of the executive decree, as François Ruffin mentioned, because it is obviously a problem. If we support this text, other answers are urgently needed: the ball is on the side of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u261	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u262	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] The La République en marche group will obviously vote for this beautiful bill, worked with the field and the professionals, but also with the students, of which we can be proud. I hope that the vote will be unanimous, because this text completes the work carried out for several years now: new competences have been given to midwives, within the framework of the Rist law; salary adjustments are very important, if not historical; This is the third stage, aimed at adapting training to the new responsibilities of midwives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u263	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u264	The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this bill and warmly thank the rapporteur Annie Chapelier for her work. Clearly, much remains to be done and the reflection needs to be deepened, as it has escaped women for too long, remaining in the hands of men. The first step, that of the reform of studies, is important and much expected by the profession. [[Applause on a few benches of the Action ens group]] If certain measures have been announced on careers, their value must be taken into account: more will have to be done, over the entire career, to ensure that people remain. With regard to working conditions, mentioned by François Ruffin and many others, we are well placed, in our respective constituencies, to know that the tension is great: it is sometimes that maternity hospitals are about to close, because there are two out of five posts missing, that midwives are exhausted, because they are working overtime. All these emergencies must also be addressed. However, let us welcome the work that has been done: I am very pleased to be able to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u265	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u266	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will of course vote in favour of this text. In this regard, I would like to thank the rapporteur, as well as the Minister Delegate, once again for her contributions. As my colleague Stéphane Peu has said, this text does not solve everything and much remains to be done, it is only a first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u267	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u268	Thank you, Madam rapporteur, for this first stone, in favour of a better recognition of the women who accompany us in the most beautiful moments of our life, and who also accompany men, we must not forget it, or other women – in fact, all those who are involved in a birth. Thank you for bringing this bill. Of course, it will not solve everything, but it is necessary to progress gradually and this first stone is very important. [[Mrs Blandine Brocard applauds]] Giving midwives the opportunity to take an additional year to train will help to avoid the many stops we have experienced, due to the density of the current training. The possibility of combining professional practice, research and teaching is also a great step forward. Above all, to confer the title of doctor in maieutics to midwives bears witness to a true recognition for this profession. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We need midwives, women and men, who are carrying out more and more tasks, and I am probably the first to ask them to do even more. For our part, we need to do more on training, on remuneration, and in this regard I welcome the Government's announcements earlier this week. If there is still work to be done, I thank you, the rapporteur, for this bill, that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will support without reservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u269	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u270	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 83 Number of votes cast 83 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 83 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-25-O1071.u271	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the bill for fairer, simpler and more transparent access to the borrower insurance market; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on effective cross-border hospital cooperation; Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to recognize, prevent and combat the risk of administrative exhaustion of the French. The meeting is adjourned.
