ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for an organic law on the modernization of public financial management (No. 4110, corrected, 4381), the proposal for a law on various provisions relating to the High Council for Public Finance and the information of the Parliament on public finances (No. 4113, corrected, 4382), the proposal for an organic law on social security financing laws (No. 4111, corrected, 4378) and the proposal for a law on social security financing laws (No. 4139, corrected, 4379). The Conference of Presidents decided that these four texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u2	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u3	The proposals for ordinary and organic laws that we are considering today are not purely technical; They are eminently political. After the health, economic, social and probably political crisis that we are going through, the restoration of public finances and the conditions for it become essential. The proposal for an organic law on the modernization of the management of public finances is specifically aimed at renovating the Organic Law on Finance Laws (LOLF), in order to create the conditions for the re-establishment of our public finances as quickly as possible. In other words, if we do not change the tax and budgetary content, we are proposing to change its contents, to make it more readable and effective, and so that tomorrow, finally, our country can present healthier and more transparent public accounts. I will quickly come back to the four main areas of reform that we are proposing today. First, we want to strengthen the place of pluriannuality in the budgetary process. The reform of the LOLF must provide Parliament and the Government with new tools to respond to the challenges of the future, particularly those related to the impact of the pandemic on public finances. It is a matter of ensuring a better framework for public spending, while at the same time valuing the investment effort and reinforcing the logic of performance, so dear to the Fathers of the LOLF – Didier Migaud and Alain Lambert – whom I greet before you. The assessment of tax expenditure is also reinforced by in-depth information from Parliament. We have also increased the initial ambition of the text in a special committee. We are proposing a recasting of the budgetary timetable in order to streamline the various debates that take place one year and to make spring, when the stability programme is transmitted to the European Commission, the great parliamentary moment of public finance policy debate (PSPD): the debate usually held in July would be replaced by a major debate on debt and the conditions for financing the state. We also want to strengthen the main budgetary principles of unity and universality – I will be particularly careful in the discussion to ensure that this objective is retained. Citizens' consent must be supported by a simpler, more readable, clearer budget, financed by a widely simplified tax system. Thus, the Special Commission proposes to prohibit the financing by assigned tax of funds without legal personality and to create a necessary link between the tax and the operator who benefits from it. It is a powerful and bold factor of simplification and readability for our tax system. All the affected taxes will be summarized in an article of the Finance Bill (PLF), reinforcing the scope of Parliament's authorization to levy the tax. All the means of public policy will be brought together in a new annexed state, whatever the vector: budgetary allocation, tax expenditure, revenue levies. Another source of progress, the annual budget discussion is streamlined by the creation of an end-of-management finance law designed to avoid the tax drifts observed up to 2017 in the year-end budget collectives. The very good practice of the current government over the past four years – I welcome the action of the ministers in this direction – must continue, which is why it must be included in the organic law. It is a simple tool, limited to the necessary budgetary adjustments of end-of-management. The link between the first and the second part of the PLF is also specified: state taxation will thus be included in the first part, which will prevent us from repeating the same tax debates in the context of the non-attached articles, these endless debates which we undergo each autumn and which take back those which took place a few weeks earlier. Finally, the text proposes to devote to the LOLF a beautiful practice that we have established thanks to the efforts of Éric Woerth, Amélie de Montchalin, Jean-Noël Barrot : le Printemps de l'évaluation. Perfect but now inescapable, this exercise has truly renewed the practice of budgetary control and parliamentary evaluation. The Special Commission has worked to improve the text on several points. In particular, it chose to introduce a counter for deviations from the planned evolution of public expenditure. This will enable us to better read the developments, and the Government will have to justify any deviations. The distinction between resources and operating and investment costs is also clarified – there will be greater clarity in the political debate. In addition to the balancing article, the new annexed statement I referred to will present the investment effort. The special commission decided to include competition funds and subsidies to operators as well. The High Council for Public Finance (HPFC) comes out strengthened from the review in committee: its mandate is extended during the review of the PLF and PLFSS – Social Security Financing Bill. It will have more time to review public finance programming laws (FPLPs) as well as sectoral programming laws. As you understand, today's session marks the culmination of a long-term work. Eric Woerth and I initiated it three years ago, alongside Joël Giraud and Charles de Courson, as part of the mission to implement the LOLF. Thomas Mesnier and I are now proposing concrete progress in improving the budgetary review of the financial laws and the social security financing laws. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] So, after discussions that will not fail to be rich, exchanges made possible by the Government's choice to put these texts on the agenda – I would like to salute Olivier Dussopt for his unwavering support for our parliamentary approach – I hope that this organic law proposal will receive broad and frank approval. It's our interest to all of us. It is in the interest of Parliament, which will thus be strengthened, to ensure better control and evaluation, guaranteeing better citizen consent to tax and public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u4	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u5	Twenty-five years after the creation of the social security financing laws, fifteen years after the last substantial revision of the organic framework, it blows a wind of welcome reforms on the solid walls of our social protection. As early as 1945, Pierre Laroque already said that social security should be "made up of living institutions, renewing themselves by a continuous creation". To live, for an institution such as social security, means to draw from its original ambitions the strength to transform itself, to maintain the vigour of its principles intact, but also to draw from experience the lessons that will help to consolidate the edifice. In keeping with this state of mind, the text I propose seeks to answer three fundamental questions. First of all, have we made financing laws the great exercise of democratic transparency that presided over their creation? While funding laws have undoubtedly been a step forward, they are now suffering from the excessive concentration of discussion in the fall, in a review schedule that is unparalleled for a text of such size and importance. That is why I proposed that you move part of the discussion in the spring, fed by more, more precise appendices and submitted earlier in the year, during the review of the Social Security Accounts Approval Act. I also suggested that the PLFSS be scheduled for a week in the fall. I cannot overemphasize the importance of such changes, which have been widely approved on all the committees in committee: it is by organising the discussion better in time that Parliament will be able to exploit all the possibilities opened up by the financing laws in the fields of information, control or transformation of our social security law. Then, have we learned all the lessons of parliamentary practice over the past 25 years? Of course, the grantor did not wish to make social security financing laws (LFSS) laws containing various social measures, and limited their scope to financial provisions only. However, practice shows that the discussion is very often about the concrete arrangements presented by the Government and the proposals made by parliamentarians. This is a case for recognizing the role of the autumn funding law as a central and recurring debate on our social protection and its financing. It is neither possible nor desirable to go back, but we can take advantage of the situation to entrust the financing law with a role of watchdog on measures to exempt or reduce social contributions and contributions. This is the meaning of my twofold proposal: on the one hand, to provide the financing laws with a monopoly to sustain the exemptions; On the other hand, assess one third of existing exemptions each year during the review of approval laws. Should this practice, however, prevent us from considering whether the scope of social security financing laws should be better suited to that of social protection? I don't believe it. I therefore propose to include in the latter the debt of health or medical-social institutions covered by the public service and financed by health insurance. I know that discussions will take place on other aspects of social protection, which some consider to be the great absences from our debates. Finally, what do we want to do with future funding laws? I say this from the outset: I do not believe in the great evening of the merger of texts, nor in an intermediate solution of merging the discussion of revenues. We know what we would lose by abolishing or profoundly altering the laws on the financing of social security: a comprehensive and specialised vision on a major and autonomous field of public finances, the expertise of the Committee on Social Affairs, a text that takes the place of the social partners and respects the very nature of social rights. Conversely, we are not sure what we would gain. Time? I doubt it, the deadlines being what they are in the fall. Consistency or a more global vision? Separateing social expenditure from the revenue that finances it is the best way to de-responsibility a sphere for which balance remains a reasonable horizon. On the contrary, I believe in more modest but also more decisive improvements, which will allow the law on the financing of social security to continue to be what it is best while being part of the overall framework of public finances. This is the meaning of the introductory article that I intend to introduce and in which I propose accounts covering a wider scope, but also the gap counter or the joint deposit, in the autumn, of the PLF and the PLFSS, which will provide Parliament with an overall view of all the financial issues. I am all the more proud to propose this path towards a profound but respectful reform of the spirit of the social security financing laws, since it is a collective effort that reflects the thoughts of the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection, the Court of Auditors, the Committee for the Future of Public Finance and parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a new stage in our political and social democracy that could emerge with this renovated organic framework. I hope that what seems to me to be a very important step forward for the rights of Parliament and for our social security will be widely supported, before our proposals meet with those of our honourable senators in the near future. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is a good thing that Parliament has taken first of all what concerns it. It had already opened the door to social finance, a quarter of a century ago; It is now high time for him to settle down, finally having all the appropriate tools and with greater confidence, in his role.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u6	Mr Eric Woerth, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u7	This session is the culmination of a long parliamentary work. The four texts that have been referred to the special committee that I have the honour to chair share an ambition: to modernise the governance of our public finances, a task that is even more indispensable in the economic context that we are experiencing. Of course, these are only tools, since each majority is free to conduct the policy for which it was elected, but there are no good artisans without good tools, and these were absolutely necessary to improve the performance of financial reporting. Like the rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin, I will salute the twenty years of the LOLF and its founding fathers, our friends Didier Migaud and Alain Lambert. Almost three years ago, we wished with Joël Giraud, who was then rapporteur-general, and Laurent Saint-Martin, who was not yet rapporteur-general, to reconstitute the information mission on the implementation of the LOLF, the MILOLF, whose work had accompanied the implementation of the law of orientation – our colleague Charles de Courson, who, for a long time, has been following this work with diligence and relevance, remembers. In September 2019, the Commission adopted a report setting out 45 modernisation proposals. A bill was drafted very quickly, but its drafting was interrupted by the pandemic. This work resumed quickly at the beginning of the year, allowing the tabling of two bills, one organic, the other ordinary, which we co-signed Laurent Saint-Martin and myself – the proposals on the LFSS, for their part, followed a somewhat different path. Given the organic nature of the reform and the legal complexity of certain issues, we felt it was essential for the Council of State to be consulted, pursuant to Article 39 of the Constitution, which President Richard Ferrand accepted, and I thank him for that. We have carried out particularly interesting work with the Council, and I and the rapporteurs have been led to defend our texts before the General Assembly, an extremely enriching experience for both of us. His opinion has fed into the work of the Special Committee, and many of the amendments we are proposing come from them. Today's debate is the result of successful parliamentary work, based in particular on a trans-party control that has enabled us to evaluate the reform and get to the bottom of it. It comes after the drafting of a bill that drew the consequences of this work, after the legal analysis of the Council of State aimed at ensuring its constitutional solidity and after its inclusion in the agenda by the Government, which I thank for its support and for the many discussions that have contributed to the progress of this text. I see it as an acknowledgement of the quality of the work done by each other. This bill does not propose a revolution, which would have been totally inappropriate, but a very significant development. If, as the Council of State points out, it does not upset the framework for the governance of our public finances – which would be impossible without first amending the Constitution – its adoption will nevertheless involve significant developments in the LOLF, for the first time since its adoption. Three lines of force emerge from this text. The first is the strengthening of the multi-annual dimension, in particular through the vote in value of appropriations and the introduction of a counter for deviations from the standard in expenditure, which will feed into the political debate. The second is to limit, if not eliminate, practices that may affect the transparency of public finances, such as tax allocations, revenue levies or the development of tax expenditure. The third objective is to streamline and improve the quality of parliamentary work. Several provisions contribute to this, such as the simplification of the timetable, in particular the merging of the time spent on the stability programme and the debate on the orientation of public finances, but this must above all involve the extension of the right of amendment on performance objectives and indicators. The issue of investment expenditure is fundamental in times of crisis. This term seems preferable in many respects to that of "expenditure of the future", which for many are absolutely not investment expenditure. National education expenditure is thus expenditure for the future and not investment expenditure; the repayment of interest on the debt, although related to past expenditure, falls under the category of operating expenditure. This distinction will be essential for the political debate. It is not yet fully satisfactory, and I will table an amendment to provide a definition of capital expenditure and operating expenditure that is outside accounting logic in order to get closer to reality. In my view, any expenditure which, within the framework of a democracy as mature as ours, contributes to the functioning of high-quality public services should be considered an operating expenditure. In this sense, expenditure on education is part of operating expenditure. Of a very different nature, investment spending contributes to the country's evolution by fuelling its potential growth, regardless of its components. It is up to the Government to divide investment and operating expenses and to justify its choices to Parliament. We will have discussions on this. I believe that our colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne has also tabled an amendment to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] The special commission worked a lot, as did the MILOLF and other missions that preceded it. I think – and I don't say it often – that we can be proud of what we have achieved in the service of the quality of our public finances and their control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u9	The OLF, which will celebrate its twenty years in eleven days, was born of a fundamental principle, that laid down in article 14 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen: "All citizens have the right to see, by themselves or by their representatives, the need for public contribution". At the turn of the 2000s, the need to assess and report on government spending had become evident, some 20 years after the last balanced budget was voted. More generally, no one could ignore the discrepancy between this cardinal principle and the conditions for the examination and application of financial laws. Twenty years after the adoption of this policy law, we can look lucidly at the results of its application to highlight its qualities and the advances it has enabled, but also to discern, with you and thanks to you, what is important to improve. The LOLF has put forward a performance logic that was previously non-existent; It has improved Parliament's budgetary rights, far too limited before. This explains the fact that the 2001 reform of democracy was born in Parliament. And I will also pay tribute to the founding fathers of this law, Alain Lambert and Didier Migaud, who have made a decisive contribution to improving our budgetary architecture. Twenty years later, it appears that the LOLF is a success. First, it has deepened Parliament's rights in many ways. I shall limit myself to a few examples. You examine and vote the means of the state by public policy rather than by ministry, which allows you to discuss the destination of the appropriations. You vote all the appropriations for each budget mission, whereas before the LOLF the appropriations of the previous year were renewed by a single vote. You are amending the budget appropriations, because the LOLF has considerably expanded the right of amendment. If Parliament is still subject to the constraint of Article 40 of the Constitution, which no one is depriving himself of, it must be borne in mind that the LOLF has made it much more flexible by making it possible to table parliamentary amendments designed to increase certain budgetary means – those of the programmes and not of the missions – something that cannot be envisaged before. With regard to performance, the progress made by the LOLF is also undeniable. We have a high-potential tool, and French budget documentation is considered the best in the world, as highlighted by an OECD report (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) and in 2018. Thanks to its transparency, it makes it possible to measure the effectiveness of the expenditure. If we look lucidly at this guideline law, however, it must be recognized that practice has not always been up to the possibilities it offered. So let's get this toolbox. Much has already been done to ensure that the budgetary accounting and management rules accompany the LOLF movement. Efforts must continue, both on the part of Parliament and the Government, to ensure that the evaluation of expenditure performance is something other than a pious wish and that the justification for the first euro really replaces the discussion on the only new measures, both in Parliament and in the administration. We must ensure this without falling into the trap of bureaucratization of reform, already pointed out by Alain Lambert and Didier Migaud in 2006. Beyond practice, the Organic Law on Finance Laws, as well as the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws (LOLFSS), must be breathed in. This is the will of both Laurent Saint-Martin and Éric Woerth for the first, and Thomas Mesnier for the second. I would like to thank them for the quality of their work and, through them, all the parliamentarians who have contributed to it. The proposal for an organic law on the LOLF is in line with the report of the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the LOLF, which, in September 2019, had already concluded several months of work. I know that its authors have been working on editorial adjustments in recent months and days, particularly after the advice of the Council of State. The two organic bills and the two accompanying bills constitute decisive advances for the control of our public finances and for the powers of Parliament. They seem to us to lay a stone on the building of budgetary decision-making, improving its quality and efficiency in the service of the control of our public finances. First of all, with regard to the management of public finances, one of your objectives is to introduce a genuine multi-annual dimension in the budgetary debate as well as in the LFSS, which we believe is essential. The observation made by the committee on the future of public finances, chaired by Jean Arthuis, as well as by the Court of Auditors, is similar: in order to clean up public finances, we need multiannual programming of reinforced budgets. I share this objective and I would add that this must be particularly the case with regard to public expenditure. You, like us, want to introduce an expenditure rule that will allow us to take over the multi-year control of our public finances. This objective will be all the more valuable as the Government will be able to rely on the vigilance of the High Council for Public Finance to see the discrepancies between what has been planned and what has been done, and to ask for the appropriate justifications. This is a major step in the recovery of the fiscal trajectory. Let's make sure we can give him all the weight we need. On this and other aspects, the two proposals for an organic law are complementary, since Thomas Mesnier's proposal in Schedule B of the LFSS provides for the creation of a counter for the cumulative differences in expenditure between the multi-year programming of the law on public finance programming and the current forecasts on the same horizon. This piloting tool, which complements, but does not replace, the other LFSS piloting levers, will help to include the annual management of social finances in multi-annual public finance programming. Similarly, you propose to create an introductory article in PLFSS, which covers the entire sub-sector of social security administrations, in order to have a better vision of the whole of the finances of the social sphere heard in the broadest sense. At the same time, the proposal for an organic law of the members of the Finance Committee proposes to strengthen the debates on the management of public debt through the submission of a report on public debt but also through the holding of an annual debate on the modalities of its financing. This strong will on the part of both the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance is fully consistent with the objective we have set ourselves of starting the debt reduction by 2027, an objective which will only be achieved by examining in detail the conditions under which it is managed. The current context of low rates and expansionary monetary policy must not make us forget the risks attached to too high a public debt that would become unsustainable. The second objective of these proposed organic laws is to strengthen the sincerity of financial laws. From this point of view, this government and this majority have already done much to bring the practice into line with the spirit of the LOLF and the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws. We need to go further by ensuring that the HCFP sheds more light on Parliament and the citizens, as Jean Arthuis recommends in his report. Today, this body gives only an advisory opinion on economic forecasts, and the proposed legislation that you are presenting strengthens the latter's powers. Therefore, the proposed organic law reinforces its role as an adjuvant of sincerity. The Government will have to present the reasons for possible deviations in the trajectory of the Public Finance Programming Act prior to the tabling of the Finance Bill. In essence, it was a provision for an ever more transparent budget cycle that the Government had sought to improve. It also provides for the supervision of the High Council for Public Finance (HCFP) in the service of budgetary sincerity on the compatibility of the provisions of the draft sectoral programming laws with those of the Multiannual Public Finance Programming Act; We support this provision, which tends to establish the credibility of public finance programming laws, by preventing other sectoral programming laws from weakening its compliance. Furthermore, the proposal for an organic law extends the subjects on which the HCFP may have to decide. If the text is adopted, the review of the High Council will now focus on the realism of the revenue and expenditure of the PLF and PLFSS of the year. Sincerity only makes sense if financial laws are understandable: it is a democratic issue. The aim of this proposal for an organic law is therefore to reorganize the presentation of financial laws, in order to improve their readability and transparency. Thus, your text intends first to improve the information given to Parliament, in line with the Organic Act of 2001. In his information report, Alain Lambert summed up the spirit of this law: "Parliamentary control over public finances is an ardent obligation without which the functions of Parliament cannot really be exercised. This is what Article 4 aims to strengthen, in particular by providing for a report to Parliament on the state of local public finances, which will open the possibility of setting aside time for ad hoc budgetary discussion. The proposed legislation also improves the legislative process, and we agree with you that strengthening Parliament's powers also requires a reorganization of the legislative timetable. With regard to the general scoping, the policy debate on public finances would be abolished and replaced by an obligation on the Government to provide Parliament, by 15 July, with the proposed appropriation ceilings per mission for the coming year. There would therefore be a single debate on the direction of public finances at the time of the presentation of the stability programme in April. Thomas Mesnier's bill also contributes to the rationalization of the overall public finance framework, since it proposes to align the filing dates of the PLF and the PLFSS, in order to strengthen the overall budgetary vision, across all public administrations. This will, in particular, allow national representation to read all the draft financial laws for a given year in a consistent manner. I hope that this alignment will also be accompanied by a dissociation of this filing with the beginning of the calculation of the examination periods, in a similar way to the procedure already in force for the PLF. In this way, this alignment would not lead to the risk of exceeding the constitutional deadlines or inversion. We believe that the provisions that you propose allow this dissociation. In the same vein, the delay on May 1 of the deadline for the tabling of the Settlement Bill (SRP) will endorse the current practice in order to allow Parliament more time for its evaluation work. I would like to stress how useful we see the Spring of Evaluation, which was initiated by the current majority. Our tendency to focus our attention on the future and new objects often deprives us of time for the salutary analysis of past expenditures and a lucid look at their effectiveness. Thomas Mesnier's symmetrical proposal to create a spring approval project for social security accounts is very timely and the Government will support this provision. The proposal for an organic law by Laurent Saint-Martin and Éric Woerth also recasts the presentation of the balancing article and the summary of the appropriations of the general budget and the special accounts, organizing them around the distinction between what is operational and what is investment in resources as well as in expenses. This approach will allow Parliament and citizens to take a fresh look at the state budget. Finally, the Government welcomes the streamlining of the organization of the parliamentary review of the exemptions from social contributions set out in Thomas Mesnier's proposal for an organic law. All these provisions aim to facilitate parliamentary work by simplifying the most structural elements of the budget discussion, namely the text, the timetable and the debates. Dean Gaston Jèze recalled that "there is no reason to exempt any expenditure from Parliament's control," and your initiatives support this basic principle. You choose to embrace the current issues of pluriannuality and the need for a clear vision of the finances of all public administrations. You are proposing a rule on multiannual expenditure, which will help to control public finances and the evolution of these expenditure. We need it more than ever. You thus equip the State and social security with renovated and valuable tools, both for Parliament and for the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For this reason, the Government looked forward to the opening of these debates and the consideration of the articles and amendments, certain that they would lead to a consensus that would improve both the Government's budgetary practice and Parliament's information, and strengthen Parliament's prerogatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u10	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u11	We are gathered today to respond to the challenges of governance of public finances, with two organic bills and two ordinary bills. Although I am of course concerned by the texts of the rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin, since the policies on children and the family contribute to the overall situation of the state budget and public finances, I will concentrate on the two bills tabled by Thomas Mesnier, as part of the social sphere I represent. Through these two texts, you are proposed to take a further step in the progressive apprehension of the field of social finance – still relatively new – by Parliament. The Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws will celebrate its 16th birthday in a few days; Unlike the Organization Act on Finance Laws, it has not yet entered its majority. However, it was modified twice, in 2010 and then a year ago, but rather marginally. Today, on your own initiative, you are proposing a major change, and we can only welcome it. The fact that your House is taking up the LOLFSS, as the parliamentary initiative had done with regard to the financial laws, shows that the tool represented by the social security financing laws has played its full role. The LFSS was designed for Parliament to vote on the social security budget; that you are at the initiative of a major change in their procedure is the symbol of a real accomplishment. That is why I would like to welcome the work of the rapporteur-general Thomas Mesnier, the special committee chaired by Eric Woerth, but also of all those who have contributed to your reflection, in particular the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection (HCFIPS), the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance (HCAAM) and, more recently, the committee chaired by Jean Arthuis. The proposal before you is also, and above all, in a very special context for public finances in general, as the previous speakers have pointed out, and for social finances: the social security deficit in 2020 thus reaches an unprecedented amount of 38 billion euros and is likely to recur in 2021. However, let us not be ashamed of this deficit: it is the symptom of the unprecedented effort undertaken by social security to protect all the French during this major crisis, whether through our health system or through the safety net that social protection represents. Last week, in his televised address, the President of the Republic compared our social protection system to a jewel, and we all know that the French are legitimately very attached to it. Two thirds of this deficit is linked to the fall in revenue, which explains why the situation is likely to continue, albeit to a lesser extent, for several years to come. Our response to this situation must be sustained and, in this context, a major reform of the LFSS is the basis for rebuilding a more secure, solid and effective social security system. To do this, the proposed organic law proposes an ambitious amendment, structured around two complementary axes. First of all, it intends to improve the information available to Parliament by introducing, as mentioned by the rapporteur Thomas Mesnier, an introductory article on the model of those already existing in the financial laws. This introductory article represents a significant step forward because it will allow for the first time for the provision, under the Social Security Financing Act, of directly legible and usable information on the balance of the social security administrations, which cover a slightly wider scope than the LFSS but which fully contribute to the public debt. The transition to the government deficit and the public debt-to-GDP ratio will only be easier. The proposal for an organic law also intends to introduce a counter for differences in social security expenditure compared to public finance programming laws. This, of course, should not lead us to abandon the control of social security through the balances, which remain our compass, but, in a context where revenues have fallen long-term and the recovery of our public finances will not have to involve an increase in compulsory levies, expenditure will obviously have to be given special attention. The reference to public finance programming laws, which will be voted at the beginning of each mandate, will also make it possible to adopt an engaging course. This proposal for an organic law will also simplify and make the appendices to the PLFSS more readable, preferring the "best" over the "most" in terms of information, so that PLFSS can be more easily exploited and debated. Secondly, the proposed organic law will further improve the quality of the debates that bring us together each autumn around the PLFSS. The creation of draft laws approving the social security accounts will thus make it possible to speed up the time of your action: in the spring, the observation of the accounts due and, above all, a debate on the evaluation of the policies financed and the results achieved; in the fall, updating the trajectory of the current year and voting on the trajectory of the coming year. Article 24 of the Constitution will thus find its full effectiveness in this new timetable: in autumn the adoption of the law, in spring the monitoring of the Government's action and the evaluation of public policies. You are proposing, in the same movement, to bring the timetables closer to the laws of finance and the laws of financing of social security: we can only rejoice. These texts form the two legs of our public finances, and the alignment of the timetables will allow an even more synchronous movement, including a joint presentation of the two texts in the Council of Ministers to have a synoptic view of public finances. Finally, you propose amending certain competences of the social security financing laws in order to make the texts more legible or more relevant: I am thinking of the redefinition of the financial relations between the State and social security, the clarification of the rules for the inclusion of measures having an impact on social finances or the rules of competence for exemption from social contributions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] By mobilizing all of these instruments, these legislative proposals will lead to more legible FSLs and better organized and effective debates. They thus lay the foundations for rebuilding our social finances and we can collectively welcome them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u12	In the general debate, Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u13	Twenty-five years after the adoption of the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws and twenty years after the adoption of our new financial constitution – the Organic Law on Finance Laws or, for insiders, the LOLF – the two above-mentioned texts were able to demonstrate their resistance to time. However, some of their provisions have been older, and the major budget law, such as the one on social security, required updating. The effects of the health crisis have highlighted the flaws in our fiscal framework and made it urgent to revise public finances. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore fully supports the ambition of these four texts. First of all, I would like to congratulate President Eric Woerth, the rapporteur-general of the Finance Committee Laurent Saint-Martin and the rapporteur-general of the Social Affairs Committee Thomas Mesnier for the work they have done. When you want to retouch such important texts, you have to do it with a certain touch and a dose of skill. Many things go in the right direction. With regard to LOLF, mention should be made of the creation of a debate on debt and debt sustainability, as well as the establishment of expenditure targets. I have been advocating for a long time for greater control of our public spending in budgetary discussions and for the constitutionalisation of the golden rule, in the German way. With regard to the part on social finances, I note the improvement of Parliament's information and parliamentary oversight. I am thinking in particular of the creation of an introductory article in the law on the financing of social security, symmetric to that which exists in the law of finance, the easier use of the laws on the financing of social security correctives – used only twice in twenty-five years – and, above all, the creation of a law on the approval of social security accounts, during the law on the regulation of the law of finance. Nevertheless, trying to be a Musketeer in the service of Parliament and the readability of the public accounts, one can still detect ways of improving. Having participated in the consideration of 28 finance bills and some 50 amending finance bills, it seems to me that the presentation of the financial texts should become simpler and more coherent, so that the budget becomes truly readable and intelligible to all citizens – which is absolutely not the case at the moment. In addition, it is essential to increase the oversight and evaluation powers of parliamentarians. It is also important to strengthen compliance with the four budgetary principles of universality – including a rule of non-contraction of revenue and expenditure, which is not respected in the current financial texts – unity, specialty and annuality within the framework of a multiannual strategy. These principles should not remain abstract, but should be applied in practice throughout the budget year. I will defend an amendment incorporating the text of my proposal for an organic law limiting the use of retroactive tax provisions: it is a question of clarifying and framing the concept of tax retroactivity, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty. This essential subject cannot be ignored any longer; It is up to Parliament to define and regulate this principle, rather than rely on the Constitutional Council, the Court of Justice of the European Union or the Council of State. In the area of social finance, important aspects are not dealt with. This is the case, first of all, of the scope of the social security financing laws. Having been draftsman of the draft organic law establishing the PLFSS twenty-five years ago, I note that the questions that arose at the time are far from being exhausted. As I said in committee, the social security financing laws would benefit from being extended to cover the whole field of social protection, including compulsory supplementary schemes, such as pensions, but also, perhaps, sickness insurance, and unemployment insurance. Our amendments aimed at, at the very least, strengthening the information on these schemes annexed to the PLFSS have received the approval of the Special Committee. In addition, despite the creation of a fifth branch of autonomy, the scope of the risk of dependency continues to be imperfect and does not take into account certain expenditure, financed in particular by the departments. At the same time, we need better consistency between the original finance law and the PLFSS. To achieve this, it is not enough to align the date of the latter's filing: we must have an annex containing all the State's contributions to social security, in order to be able to verify the consistency between the finance law and the law on the financing of social security. Personally, I continue to think – as it was twenty-five years ago – that a joint discussion on the revenue parts of the original Finance Act and the PLFSS would be relevant. Of course, the question arises of the eventual merger of these two texts – we will see later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u14	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u15	In the name of this same consistency with the finance law, it is essential to provide for a periodic review of the exemptions from social contributions: they weaken the sustainability of our social protection system, as well as the regular derogations from the principle of compensation by the State. The amendments adopted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are in the right direction. In conclusion, and as I have observed in the Special Committee, these texts contain significant progress. However, we should not overestimate their capabilities: they are instruments in the hands of public managers, but they still need to make good use of them. Let us remember the words of the famous Baron Louis, under whose ministry the first budgetary rules were established: "Sire, make us good politics and I will make you good finances! Let us hope that the emerging new financial constitution will encourage future governments to make a good policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u16	[[Smile on various benches]] Mr de Courson points out to me that the time count was not in front of him: rest assured, Member, you have respected your five minutes of speaking time. You can go back in peace: you have respected the general law, which was violated only by Mr. Saint-Martin! Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u17	The proposed legislation before us is intended to amend the framework of the financial and social security financing laws. Although we regret that only five minutes are allocated to each group in the general discussion, given the scope of the four texts, we fully understand that they are the subject of a joint discussion, as long as they pursue a similar logic, which I will summarize in two directions: on the one hand, to strengthen multi-annual programming and framing, in order to amplify a logic of adjustment through public expenditure – whether it is the responsibility of the State or social security –; on the other hand, to reduce Parliament to a mere role of commentator, controller or evaluator of economic or social policies. As far as the first axis is concerned, you are greatly strengthening the weight of the law on public finance programming. From now on, the PLF and the PLFSS will have to justify, each year, any deviations that may exist with the multi-annual framework. You further emphasize this logic by introducing a standard of expenditure, including all public administrations – or "all APUs" – which has been declining over several years, which will include the central state, but also local authorities and social security. This provision takes a new step towards the establishment of a golden rule, the ultimate outcome of the liberal rationalization of the State, aiming at a simple ideological objective: to reduce public spending from year to year, and to reduce the place and scope of action of the State. We have long opposed the programming of public finances as presented here. Far from being a planning tool designed to understand the long time and to predict the necessary public policies, according to the needs of the nation, it aims quite on the contrary to force policies in a carcan, as if needs could adapt to forecasts – obviously erroneous assumption, which explains that the programming of public finances has always failed. At every moment, public policies must adapt to the economic situation or changing needs. The crisis that we are going through is a major demonstration of this: while your government has consistently reduced health spending, particularly for the hospital, the needs of the population have not diminished, on the contrary. As a result, the country faced a health crisis of unprecedented magnitude, even though its hospital system was in critical condition. Far from drawing the consequences of this harmful policy, these texts reinforce a programming logic that will, as planned, further reduce public spending. In order to introduce a quasi-automatic control of the State and social security, it is also necessary to reduce the possibilities available to the legislator to make the law. While the proportion of amendments deemed inadmissible, on the grounds that they would be fiscal or social riders, continues to grow, your bills will further reduce the room for manoeuvre of parliamentarians, particularly during the review of financial laws. On the other hand, they will help to strengthen Parliament's powers of control and evaluation. The recognition of the Spring of Evaluation and the creation of a time for evaluation for the social component, as is the case for finance in May and June, are examples of this trajectory. With regard specifically to social security, we are opposed to the inclusion of supplementary pension and unemployment insurance schemes within the scope of the Social Security Financing Act, as provided for in several amendments by the majority. These provisions are intended to reduce the prerogatives of the social partners and to weaken a paritarianism to which we are very attached. The political logic that I have just outlined cannot be undermined by the various advances in your legislative proposals, in particular regarding the deadline for the tabling of the PLFSS or the budgetary bruises. We will therefore vote against these texts, the main objective of which is to monitor the development of public and social expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u18	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u19	It is in the torpor of a summer afternoon, while the Tour de France has just delivered its winner on the Champs-Élysées and while everyone is preparing to adapt their holidays to the new delta variant of the coronavirus, to protect themselves and others; It is at the heart of July, therefore, that we are seized by our eminent budgetary rapporteurs and by the chairman of the no less eminent Committee on Finance, texts whose formalism hardly invites passion, but which, in their austere aspect, are in fact of little common political significance. These legislative proposals are in line with the organic texts born in the early 2000s, which, on the one hand, enshrined a thematic vision of the budget declined by public policy, and, on the other hand, the desire to set objectives and to measure the performance with which French money is used – because that is what it is all about: the proper use of public funds, the effectiveness of public policies thus financed and the achievement of the objectives voted by Parliament. At the same time, these texts draw the lessons of fifteen years of practice from the two budgetary discussions: they thus strengthen the powers of parliamentarians and give their full place to evaluation, a subject dear to the majority and to this legislature. What will you say to me about the wisest parliamentarians, but how can we get the others, and especially the French, on board? Perhaps already, recalling that an organic law is not passed every week: it is used to organize powers within the institutions, but the balance of powers between Parliament, the Government, the administrations and the judges is not reviewed every day. This gives the present texts an exceptional first dimension, especially since they are rebalancing for the benefit of parliamentarians: they give us more time to study texts tabled earlier on the Bureau of the Assembly; They allow us to immerse ourselves earlier in the rainbow of the reports made available to us by Bercy; Finally, they review the timetable for end-of-management texts, in order to further streamline the review of budgets. How do we get the French on board, then? By explaining, too, the major advances contained in these texts to make the use of public money more understandable. On the state budget, let's talk about the reorganization of the affected taxes – endorsed by the French, because they know in advance the objective: they will be more visible, more readable, better followed and better controlled. Let us also mention the annual debate on debt, a subject that is of particular concern to our fellow citizens – they hear everything and its opposite about what should be done: their representatives will now hold a political discussion, based on a report submitted by the Government, before the beginning of the budgetary discussions. Finally, let us not forget to mention the possibility for parliamentarians to intervene in the definition of budgetary performance indicators. Formulated in these terms, it doesn't look fantastic, but if I explain to you that we will be able to choose the criteria for determining whether a public policy is effective or not, it is certainly more telling, and a little more exciting! With regard to social security, the reorganization of the many annexes which have flourished over the last fifteen years will make it possible to see more clearly and to make better use of these mines of information, although valuable but somewhat too many. The alignment of the timetable with that of the State Finance Bill will be an undeniable asset, given the short time frame for detailing the proposed measures and submitting amendments. Finally, how can we not welcome the inclusion, in the scope of the financing law, of the debt of the medical-social institutions and hospitals, for which we committed a plan of EUR 13 billion last year, and which it is essential to follow through with the law on the financing of social security? Through these two texts, we strongly affirm that we parliamentarians have an essential role to play in assessing the public policies we defend and the use of the appropriations we vote each year in the National Assembly and the Senate. To include at the level of the organic law – where the powers within the institutions are organised – the Spring of Evaluation and the monitoring week devoted to the evaluations of parliamentarians is a major step forward for us: it will contribute to a better use of public money. As draftsman of the Social Security Financing Act for the Committee on Finance, I am pleased that these texts are being studied jointly and that they allow real progress in all the above-mentioned areas. In my personal capacity, I would certainly have liked them to go a little further – I would have liked in particular for the two committees to get closer in the examination of the texts, and for us to take one or two more steps towards extending the scope of social security. Some blind spots persist, and sometimes prevent us from having a clear view of the measures we are considering for our fellow citizens. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, what matters above all is that we have greater visibility on the whole budget – state and social security – thanks to these texts. The French, in their vast majority, do not have enough knowledge of the fiscal years to know who finances what; That is why these bills, which aim to bring the two budgets closer to form and which devote their evaluation by parliamentarians, are so important, so that the budget "all APU", as we like to call it in our financial jargon, becomes simply the budget of all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u20	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u21	Improving the governance and readability of the social security budget: this is the objective set out in the organic law proposal and the ordinary law proposal, all the more legitimate since, since the organic law of 2005, the organic framework has not moved – it is almost the same. A technical improvement of the financial laws is therefore proposed to us at a time when social security is experiencing the worst deficit in its history – 38 billion euros yesterday, 38 billion euros tomorrow – due mainly to the disease branch. Among the main measures proposed, I will mention the alignment with the schedule of the finance bill and the strengthening of the information of parliamentarians through the redesign and simplification of the schedules. Three laws are proposed instead of one: a law on the financing of social security, a law on amending financing and a law on the approval of social security accounts. The author of the proposed organic law also rightly seeks clarification of the respective roles of the Social Security Financing Act and other legislation on tax niches. The Council of State issued a reserved opinion on the provisions relating to the area of the Social Security Financing Act of the year. With regard to those provisions setting out the content of the introductory article, he recommended that any ambiguity should be removed with regard to the rules arising from the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. We are also proposing to reserve to the financing laws the option of creating or modifying measures for reduction, exemption, reduction, base of contributions or social contributions for a period of more than three years. Finally, the proposed legislation expands the optional area of social security financing laws. We shared the criticism of the initial provisions and were satisfied with the amendments made by the Special Commission, which took into account the recommendations of the Council of State. Thus, the Special Commission has clarified the wording of Article 1, so that there can be no doubt that the monopoly on the sustainability of social income relief in the law of financing is strictly based on the constitutional authorization relating to the general conditions of financial balance. The Special Commission also clarified the temporal scope of the provisions that could be adopted in the optional part of the Social Security Financing Laws of the year. Finally, we are in favour of moving forward with the date of tabling of the PLFSS before Parliament, as well as with the addition of more detailed annexes, which will enrich the information of parliamentarians and improve their work. We need to be better informed when preparing the programming laws and when finalizing the funding bill. However, the proposed changes are not far-reaching, both in terms of information and financial management of social finances. The objective and comprehensive information of national representation requires a further reform of the structure of the evaluation reports on social security policies, as proposed by the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection. The debate on the scope of the social security financing laws is all the more so because of the impact of the health crisis on social finances, and an extension of the scope of the annexes would have had its place in the texts examined, in order to provide Parliament with better information on the situation of social accounts and, above all, on the sustainability of the social protection system. Better information and reflection on social contributions are also needed. Finally, social security will have to anticipate and prevent health and social risks more, and the question of a national health insurance expenditure target (ONDAM) which incorporates a sub-goal "public health and population prevention" remains. In the face of abyssal social deficits and the forecast of recovery, it will be necessary to leave the "no matter what it costs" and to return to a credible path of return to the balance of social accounts, in order to ensure the sustainability of our social system. Therefore, all improvements to ensure a medium-term balance in social finances are welcome. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] In view of the improvements made during the special committee discussion and in view of the work of Éric Woerth, Laurent Saint-Martin and Thomas Mesnier, the Group of the Republicans will vote on the two texts proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u22	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u23	We are here to deliberate on a reform of the organizational framework for the review of financial laws and social security financing laws. Two organic laws and two ordinary laws are presented, but with a single objective: to strengthen the scope and meaning of parliamentary authority to levy taxes and finance expenditures. First of all, the democrats welcome the desire to strengthen parliamentary authorisation. We will, as in committee, make several proposals to complement the progress made in these texts, and I know that we will find a lot of support among our colleagues. However, we are cautious...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u24	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u25	... on the desire to change the way in which tax treaties are examined, which reduces or even deprives the Committee on Foreign Affairs of its powers. We deeply regret this, and our vote will depend on whether or not we adopt an amendment that we will present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u26	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u27	Reforming the state through its budget, as underlined by the late Philippe Séguin, and restoring its meaning to parliamentary authorization: these were the two objectives of the organic law on financial laws adopted in 2001 at the initiative of Jean Arthuis, Didier Migaud and Alain Lambert. The proposal for a law defended by the Chairman and the rapporteur-general of the Finance Committee in a spirit of consensus contributes greatly to the renewal of parliamentary scrutiny of the financial laws and thus to the correction of its shortcomings. In this perspective, the Spring of Evaluation, a great success of this legislature, is part of the organic framework. The law on public finance programming, and consequently the introductory article of the financial laws, are enriched by the voting of a standard of expenditure in terms of value and volume. Parliament's information is strengthened and streamlined. Finally, the powers of the High Council for Public Finance are expanded. We regret, however, that this proposal only addresses one of the objectives of the LOLF and forgets the reform of the State. I hope that we will be able to keep a course on this real subject, a real issue of effectiveness for our public policies. Social security financing laws have been a must-see for 25 years, during which Members of Parliament and Senators decide on the revenue and expenditure of the various branches of social security for the coming year. It is a foundation that we must maintain, but also consolidate and modernise. Indeed, today more than ever, as the health crisis reminds us, the legislative treatment of the financing of our social protection must be as transparent and as comprehensive as possible, because complexity inevitably leads to a lack of control and, therefore, to inefficiency. As has been pointed out in committee, although the social budget is now well assimilated, it has not been reformed for a long time, even though the ecosystem of compulsory social security schemes is constantly changing. The dem group thus subscribes to the ambition set out in these two bills. They are a welcome step in the ambition to strengthen Parliament's role in reviewing and monitoring social security financing laws. The various measures envisaged will enable parliamentarians to benefit from a clearer and wider view of social finances, while at the same time having more time to analyse them. Time, with its calendar incarnation, is one of the main difficulties that we, as deputies, face every year. The progress of the date of the tabling of the text on the Bureau of the Assembly is excellent news, as the deadlines for getting to know the text have been forced in recent years. The creation of a new category of social security financing law, namely the Social Security Accounts Approval Act, completes the work undertaken over the past three years with the Social Assessment Spring. It will allow for a debate earlier in the year on the accounts closed for the previous year. It's happy! The organic text provides for several measures relating to health facilities. Whether it is the extension of the optional area to measures relating to hospital debt or the creation of a new annex on the financial situation of institutions, this is a significant step forward which our group has long called for. In conclusion, if we support the spirit of these proposals for organic laws and say we look forward to their implementation, we have some reservations about the letter. Our debates will therefore depend on our final vote. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] We look forward to a strengthened parliament in the role of evaluating public policies, monitoring the action of the Government and the passing of the law under the Constitution; This applies to its commissions, to all its commissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u28	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u29	Nearly twenty years to the day after its entry into force, we are here to consider a bill to amend the 2001 Organic Law, the so-called LOLF. The four texts before us constitute a set of provisions designed to improve Parliament's information on public finances and to reorganise the parliamentary discussion of these texts in order to make them more readable. We can only support these measures, which are in the right direction and will help to avoid the repetition of almost identical debates in the first and second parts, while improving the readability of the objectives. If I am in favour of this reorganization, I regret that the new version you are proposing for the LOLF does not speak of the substance. In my view, it is essential to merge the budgetary debate on revenues, those of the State and those of social security. I have been saying this for a long time, but I would like to repeat it here. Public expenditure today amounts to EUR 1350 billion – 550 for the state and 650 for social security; between the two, the enormous VAT channel allows the state – but it does not always – to compensate for the loss of social security revenues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u31	Separateing the two discussions is therefore ridiculous! This leads to a lack of readability which, in my view, introduces very damaging biases to our democracy. Another example is that three-quarters of the income from Personalized Housing Assistance (APL) comes from the state and one-quarter from social security. What's the point of having a split talk?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u32	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u33	We don't understand. As for the competitiveness and employment tax credit (CICE), it is the pompon! The Government has transformed it into a reduction in long-term contributions. However, the reduction in the social contribution rate was included in the PLFSS, while the abolition of the CICE was covered by Article 42 of the PLF. The result of the races: no one understands anything, starting with us, which is very regrettable especially when we talk about 20 billion euros. Secondly, discussions on the basis of static data must be stopped. It is the Mésange amendment – which I have been defending since 2014 – and the name of the Bercy model and the INSEE which indicates the macroeconomic dynamics: when you lower contributions or increase taxes, it has a macroeconomic effect on growth and job creation. These data exist, but they often remain in Bercy's drawers where they have to be picked up, although it would be better if they were systematically transmitted to us. I will illustrate this fact with an example that will remind you of a few memories: the ecological taxes that you voted for and that were the cause of the yellow vest movement, as you thought they would go unnoticed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u34	You're the one who nestled them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u35	[[Smile on the bench of commissions]] Yes, but there were no yellow vests at that time. If we know this data, we understand this dynamic, and above all we anticipate it. Otherwise, there is no point in the budget debate. We must have these two components, that is, the impact on our citizens and the macroeconomic dynamics. As far as the impact on our fellow citizens is concerned, we had done a small simulator. It's still online and it could inspire you. It showed the delusional amount of these energy taxes. On the form, we will first propose to systematize the hearing of ministers in the framework of advance decrees, which make it possible to derogate from the principle of parliamentary authorization of expenditure. In its current wording, the LOLF submits the decrees in advance to the prior opinion of the Finance Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate but remains silent with regard to the hearing of ministers. Of course, we were able to ask to hear the minister, and he agreed to our request...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u36	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u37	We will then propose to strengthen the financial assessment of the provisions introduced by the Government under review. Currently, the LOLF provides that any provision of a draft finance law affecting the resources or charges of the State must be quantified in terms of its impact. This seems logical, and yet this applies only to the provisions contained in the text originally transmitted to our Assembly, which allows the Government to introduce in the course of discussion all the amendments it wishes without any evaluation. The Copé niche, worth EUR 20 billion, was thus created by the adoption of such an amendment, without having been the subject of any evaluation: neither seen nor known. It's still very unfortunate. Finally, we will propose to strengthen the supervisory power of the special rapporteurs, through an amendment that has been inspired by the difficulties that I have recently encountered in Bercy – certainly, not because of you, Minister Delegate, but it has still taken the minister to intervene in order for his administration to agree to hand over the documents that I asked him to do; However, ministers have more to do than enforce Article 57 of the LOLF! This amendment could bear the name of the one who inspired it, but, out of respect, I will keep it for myself. In view of the above, our vote will depend on the progress of the discussion in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u38	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u39	We are here to discuss, not one, but four bills: two sets of organic and ordinary legislative proposals to modernize the management of our public finances and social spending. Since 2001 for LOLF, and 2005 for the Organic Law for Social Security Financing Laws, these organic laws had not been the subject of a major revision: to say that it is now legitimate to modernise their operating framework. If the crisis was a sign of the need to act, the reflection had been initiated well upstream. The proposal for an organic law on the modernisation of public financial management derives directly from the work of the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the LOLF. This MILOLF, reactivated in 2018, issued a report in September 2019, a large part of which was included in the organic law proposal. The report, presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the rapporteur-general of the budget, is therefore the result of a transparency of work, proof, if necessary, that it is still possible to carry out work in good intelligence in this House: thank you, gentlemen. In substance, the two proposals for an organic law that we are considering, supplemented by two ordinary bills, have the same objectives: to improve the readability and transparency of financial laws, to strengthen parliamentary oversight and to streamline the procedures for examining them before Parliament. It is therefore not a revolution that is proposed to us – which was not desirable – but a modernization. The proposal for an organic law on the modernization of public financial management will strengthen the multi-year management of public finances. It has been several years since we are aware that pluriannuality allows us to have a vision, a trajectory for public finances, and that we must develop it. This was initiated in 2012, with the creation of public finance programming laws by an organic law that we are proposed to integrate into the LOLF by supplementing it. All PSSAs will now have to determine, for each programming year, a target for the growth of public expenditure in volume and a forecast of expenditure expressed in billions of current euros. The same proposal for an organic law will also improve the transparency of public finances. Changes in the structure of the draft finance law, clarification of the framework applicable to assigned taxes and revenue levies, modification of the nomenclature of financial laws: these are technical elements, of course, but essential for strengthening the control of public finances. Finally, Parliament's information and rights are strengthened, as illustrated by the commitment to the Spring Evaluation LOLF. The strengthening of parliamentary oversight and the modernization of the adoption procedure are precisely the issues that led to the submission of the proposal for an organic law on social security financing laws. This proposal for an organic law, supplemented by an ordinary law, echoes the recent reflections of the Court of Auditors and the High Council on the financing of social protection, the last report of which stresses the need to strengthen the strategic dimension of social security financing laws. To this end, the proposed organic law provides for more time to be devoted to reviewing the FSL, aligning its schedule with that of the finance bill, and for the many annexes associated with it to be reduced, in the interests of clarity to which our group fully subscribes. The text also provides for a monopoly of LFSS on long-term social exemptions, limiting the duration of exemptions under ordinary laws to three years. In order to respond to the reservations expressed by the Council of State on this point, the Special Commission has made it useful to clarify that only exemptions for which compensation is not provided will be covered by the measure. Finally, the draft organic law proposes to put in place a period of evaluation of the implementation of the social security budget at the time of the Social Spring of Evaluation, by means of a law approving social accounts, separate from the financing law itself. We believe that such a discussion will make it possible to expand the debates that feed into this great annual meeting of social policy evaluation. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Action Together Group will vote in favour of these four bills. We welcome the spirit in which these texts have been built and discussed, which is to the credit of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u40	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u41	Our group welcomes the idea of examining texts aimed at improving the information and control of parliamentarians on the financing of social security. However, all legislative proposals restructuring the organic laws that frame the budget texts would not be sufficient to compensate for the harm done to Parliament by the reform of the rules of procedure, in particular by an extremely strict interpretation of the inadmissibility of our amendments, which all too often prevents us from doing our work properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u42	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u43	With regard to the texts on social security financing laws, we agree with the new structure of three separate texts, which will allow parliamentarians to have a greater understanding of social finances. If the original wording and the opinion of the Council of State had caused us to fear that the ordinary legislator would be divested for the benefit of the organic legislator on a number of subjects, you, the rapporteur-general, were able to remove our fears, during the debates in committee, by allowing the adoption of a series of amendments based on the opinion of the Council of State. With regard to the deadline for the filing of the PLFSS, we strongly support its establishment in the organic law. From year to year in fact, the PLFSS is being deposited more and more late. Last year, it was tabled in conjunction with the ministers' hearing, which did not allow us to work under conditions worthy of Parliament. Setting such a deadline in the organic law will protect us against situations that we have repeatedly denounced. We will also be presenting a series of amendments on matters which we believe are essential: the establishment of a golden rule requiring us to seek budgetary balance in the ordinary period, in order to be able to create room for manoeuvre much more simply in times of crisis; An appeal amendment aimed at raising the Government's awareness of the need to decentralize the management of our health system to the level of the regions: replacing ONDAM with several ORDAM – regional health insurance expenditure targets – would help to better understand the diversity of health situations in our regions; the prohibition of the creation of an additional branch within the general social security system without adding additional resources. As you will have understood, this is a reference to the creation of the autonomy branch. Of course, this new branch was expected, but do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that our fellow citizens are waiting for the granting of new rights and additional appropriations for autonomy rather than simply the creation of a new branch within the general social security system? Finally, we support the idea of including in an impact assessment the tabling of each government amendment. The introduction of a bill requires the publication of an impact assessment. However, it is not uncommon for the Government to free itself from this constraint by introducing major measures by way of amendment. Our group welcomes the consideration of these bills and welcomes the work of their authors and their commitment to their speedy completion. We would like to highlight in particular the establishment of an annual debate on public debt and the submission of a report by the Government on its characteristics. While debt stands at 117.2 points of GDP in 2021 and we are witnessing a real explosion in our public deficits, it is becoming urgent to think about future generations; We have been reminding him for several months. Furthermore, we welcome the amendments adopted in the special committee on improving the readability of public finances. In conclusion, our group will vote in favour of this text allowing parliamentarians to gain greater visibility on the holding of our public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u44	The joint general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u45	This work is the result of three years of reflection, of going back and forth, of hearings, not only in the Assembly, but also with our fellow senators, with the Government and the various administrations. President Woerth and I wanted to give these texts every chance of success. I agree with you, Mrs Rabault: I too am a member of those who believe that the first parts of the PLF and the PLFSS will eventually have to be merged. But here we are looking at a compromise text, as is often the case with a revision of the LOLF, with the aim of finding the best conditions for the completion of what we consider to be most important. As such, this is already a good step, even if it should not prevent us from continuing to reflect beyond the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u46	Valérie Rabault didn't just talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u47	I now call, in the committee's text, the articles of the proposal for an organic law on the modernisation of public financial management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u48	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 22, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u49	By this amendment, we propose the deletion of Article 1, which incorporates the provisions on public finance programming into the LOLF. As I said in the general discussion, we are opposed to the principle of public finance programming, although we are fervent advocates of ambitious public policies that necessarily integrate the long term, as is the case with environmental issues in particular. Public finance programming is not part of this planning logic, on the contrary: setting spending and employment ceilings over several years is the opposite of planning. While public policies and adequate funding are defined according to needs, public finance programming determines fiscal straitjackets to which public policies must then comply, hoping that needs will follow. This is not the case, and that is why public finance programming is not working. The executive is always, whatever its sensitivity, caught up in an economic crisis or social needs: the moments we are experiencing illustrate this well. Instead of drawing the consequences of this failure you further reinforce the programming logic, which will end up failing to address ecological and social issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u50	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u51	I do not wish to delete Article 1, which, on the contrary, seems to me to provide important elements for a better control of public finances, in particular with the novelty of the gap counter, which will require the executive to present and justify, on a multiannual basis, the differences between forecasting and execution, and is therefore a very useful procedure for our monitoring and evaluation capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u52	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u53	This is a fallback amendment, aimed specifically at removing the introduction of an expenditure standard in euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u54	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u55	Disadvantaged, because this is also an innovation that we are proposing: for the first time, we are setting a standard of expenditure in billions of current euros, allowing both better comparisons, better framework and, hopefully, a better capacity to reduce our public expenditure in order, in the long run, to restore our public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u56	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u57	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u58	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u59	It is essential that these elements be understandable to all of us – for the population as well as for the press and observers. As for the standard in euro, it is also very burdensome: it is a question of how exactly the Government plans to increase expenditure over the years. The issue is therefore quite fundamental in terms of control. It sounds simple and silly, but it's very effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u60	The rapporteur's amendment No 55 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u61	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u62	This is still a fallback amendment, which aims to reduce the scope of public finance programming. Programming beyond three years would make no sense, because it is impossible to know in advance the economic situation on this horizon, nor the structural needs of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u63	Amendments Nos 56 and 57 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u64	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u65	Following the discussions we have had in committee, our group is proposing this withdrawal amendment simply to propose that, following the debate on the stability programme, a non-binding vote be held in accordance with the constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u66	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u67	This amendment makes it possible to specify the timetable for the submission of the Court of Auditors' report on the situation and prospects of public finances. We proposed in the original text and in the special committee that this report of the Court of Auditors, which is essential to our work, should be brought back to the new period of the debate on the orientation of public finances, which would take place around the debate on the PSTAB, the stability programme, that is to say around April. After the exchanges we have had with the Court of Auditors, it seems that this period is very difficult if we want to have a report of the same quality and containing information of the same level. The amendment therefore tends to remove, for the time being, the reference to a date for tabling this report by the Court of Auditors, so that we can discuss it again during the parliamentary shuttle and look at what is the best time to ensure that the report on the situation and the outlook for public finances is of the best quality and that it best corresponds to our new budgetary timetables.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u68	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u69	I am in favour of this amendment, which allows flexibility in terms of timing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u70	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u71	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u72	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u73	Our rapporteur-general presents this amendment as a waiting amendment, but it is a problem because, if we want this report of the Court of Auditors to be useful, it must be properly integrated into our own procedure, failing which it will come to us at a time when we will not use it. This waiting amendment, which does not propose an alternative solution, is therefore a little awkward. Shouldn't the Court of Auditors be asked to produce a report that is perhaps more synthetic but better based on our procedure? That is a question for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u74	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u75	The question is good, and the problem is rather that of access to the information available in order to be able to produce a report, even shorter, which we must take up in order to stimulate reflection and debate. We have three options. First of all, we can move the date of submission of the report to April, but the Court tells us that it would be difficult for it to return it in time. We can then keep the current timetable, with a postponement at the end of June or the beginning of July, but, if we delete the July sequence on the DOPF, this will reduce the scope of this report, the submission of which would be only a hearing of the First President of the Court of Auditors in the Committee on Finance, which is certainly very good but would probably reduce the power of this intervention. A third option that it might be interesting to consider would be to proceed with this operation in September, as would the launch of the major autumn parliamentary authorization sequence. We could also propose that the Court of Auditors should give us this report before the PLF is tabled in the Council of Ministers, and that it should then be heard on the occasion of what could be the launch of the autumn budget. We will discuss this in the coming weeks with the Court.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u76	The rapporteur's amendment No 58 is for coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u77	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 117.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u78	In light of a slight discrepancy between the Government and the drafters of the law, this amendment is intended to remove the new framework provided by the bill for the allocation of taxes. It seems that the developments are particularly cumbersome and that the establishment of the expanded mission presenting all the means of a public policy, including the taxes affected, makes it possible to frame the use of the latter by highlighting them on the same level as the other means of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u80	This is a very important element of this bill, and it can give rise to a difference of appreciation between the Government and ourselves. The allocation of taxes can be a good thing, but only if there is consent to tax and tax. The opposite is very dangerous, because it puts taxation in jeopardy and makes the very notion of consent to tax difficult. It cannot be said collectively, for twenty years, that the affected taxes pose a problem, which gradually grows and becomes tentacular, without solving it when it is proposed to renovate and modernise the LOLF. We have therefore introduced into the special committee, after a long debate and discussions with the members of the Council of State, proposals which we consider to be the most balanced, the most just and, above all, the most realistic for their implementation over time. First of all, we propose to put an end to these black budget gaps, which are the taxes allocated to funds without legal personality. It's very important. This does not mean, however, that these funds without legal personality will be deprived of revenue, but only that the tax allocated is no longer the financial vehicle that insures their revenues. We also propose that there be a natural and direct link between the tax and the mission of the beneficiary of the tax. Again, this is an essential aspect of tax consent. This reflection, which we had fed from the beginning of the MILOLF, was consolidated and confirmed with the episode of the yellow vest crisis, which was a tax crisis but, above all, a tax crisis. Many people then told us, on the roundabouts, that the increase in the price of fuel at the pump was often the cause of anger, but that their second, sometimes even more unifying, reason for anger was that they did not understand why the increase at the pump would only partially finance the ecological transition. In fact, the ICTPE, the domestic consumption tax on energy products, does not directly finance the ecological transition, and this distortion to budgetary universality has opened our eyes even more to the problems that could be created by the taxation affected when it was not "pure". We therefore propose, not to put an end to the tax burden, which can sometimes be good – in particular in the areas of ecological transition and health, as well as for certain other public policies that require it – but when we multiply sprains, it is ultimately the consent to tax that is damaged, undermined by this succession of taxes. We therefore want to see this modernization, this dust removal, which will certainly upset certain habits among the tax beneficiaries, but which, as we must make clear, will not weaken their revenues and will make it possible to regain points in terms of budgetary universality. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u81	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u82	As the rapporteur has said, we must maintain what the special committee voted for. We have done a great deal of work on this issue – on which we could still work for 30 years – and it is clear that the information provided to Parliament is, at least, not entirely effective. We also saw this when the Council of State proposed an amendment to improve the original wording, which we accepted, if not all, at least almost 80%. For years the Court of Auditors, and sometimes even the Government, has indicated that the use of funds without legal personality is not the best way to manage. We have done a census of these funds, which must represent – I am speaking under the rapporteur's control – EUR 4 to 5 billion, of which we do not say that they are allocated anywhere and in any way, but on which Parliament does not receive much information and which are therefore subject to little monitoring, since the allocation of taxes means that we do not see them anymore. The link is a fundamental element of consent to tax: it is a point that we have taken care to reintroduce and on which the Council of State has also pronounced itself. It therefore seems to me that the drafting of the special committee should remain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u83	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u84	It seems to me that the Court of Auditors had referred to the figure of 150 affected taxes, amounting to EUR 30 billion. I support the amendment by the Special Committee because, between the definition of ceilings and the questions about the personality of the funds which collect them, the taxes affected occupy a great deal of our time in the debate we have, in the autumn, on the finance law; This amendment has the merit of introducing clarity in an area that sometimes lacks clarity. The rapporteur was right to mention the CTBTP, because ecological taxes must be used for transformation, ecological transition, at least. By definition, an affected tax must ensure the legibility of the link between the amount collected and the objective pursued: it is the opposite of the general budget, under which the financing does not necessarily correspond to those who pay. So we have to keep the principle of the tax allocated – or, Mr. Delegated Minister, we have to delete it and pay it all to the general budget, but we have to be logical, and you can't stay halfway. The clarification proposed here therefore seems to me to be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u85	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u86	Every year, when we look at the finance bill, we talk about these affected taxes. It is true that they sometimes lack logic because, if, by definition, the term assignment refers to an objective, a destination, a mission, this principle no longer exists. Moreover, the discussion we have every year about the ceilings makes certain parts of the tax go to a destination, and others do not. These are points on which we come back to committee as well as to the sitting. To address these taxes, it takes both pragmatism, logic and taking legal aspects into account. The provisions contained in Article 3 will allow explanations to be provided in the event of the creation or development of a fee. All this contributes to the consent to tax. I therefore admit that I do not understand very well the objective of the Government's amendment, aimed at deleting paragraphs 3 to 5 of this article: in any case, it is not a question of strengthening this consent, nor of contributing to the explanations that we can give to the citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u87	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u88	This government amendment is an amendment of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u89	[[Smile]] You know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u90	His summary statement is based on two arguments. On the one hand, the provision in question "seems to you" – you are careful – particularly heavy. That's not the case at all! The famous taxes allocated to funds without legal personality are, you will agree, budgetary monsters! In this case, if things are not managed by the State, we will only have to open up the amount of the subsidy to such a body, as the State receives a general revenue. This mechanism is therefore not cumbersome. On the other hand, in your view, "the introduction of the ''expanded mission'' presenting all the means of a public policy, including the taxes affected, makes it possible to regulate the use of the affected taxes". I cannot help but find this second argument very weak, because we have seen the opposite on many occasions. Frankly, the special commission did a good job. The text is good; It presents only a small problem, which I have raised, that of the link with public service missions. Many cases do not give rise to any difficulties: so, if it is logical that the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) is largely financed by the proceeds of fees and contributions paid by the actors subject to its control, in other cases there is a problem of appreciation: however, appreciating is Parliament's job! I therefore support the committee and call on you to vote against the government amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u91	The rapporteur's amendment No 90 is drafting. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u92	Favourable though...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u93	These are things that happen, Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u94	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 115.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u95	It aims to bring the allocation of all types of taxation into the exclusive domain of finance laws, so that other legislative instruments cannot include such provisions and that the proper information of Parliament is ensured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u96	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u97	We have discussed this subject on several occasions: the amendment is in the right direction. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u98	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u99	In its current wording, Article 3 of the LOLF lists the elements considered as budgetary resources of the State, including "the proceeds resulting from cash operations other than State borrowing premiums". In the absence of a ban on these premiums registered by Agence France Trésor (AFT), this amendment is therefore intended to move them from the category of treasury operations to that of budgetary operations. The figures are considerable: in 2020, the amount of premiums for the year's issue, net of discounts – but these are very low – amounted to €30.7 billion. In June 2021, the stock formed by the accumulation of these premiums, still net of haircuts, was 98 billion. However, their treatment by Maastrichtian accounting creates an accounting illusion, making public debt appear less important. On the other hand, if we adopt this amendment, the premiums to the issue would not have an impact on the charges provided for by the finance law, contrary to what some believe: this would be the logical consequence of issuing above the current rates, which are very low. It is not normal for more than 30 billion to escape our budgetary discussions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u100	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u101	On this point, we disagree with Mr de Courson. These premiums are covered not by a budgetary operation but by a cash operation on the balance sheet of the State, since they are backed up by the duration of the security itself, including in the event of repayment or re-subscription. It is normal for them to be included in the general accounts of the State and in the Maastrichtian accounts; It is just as normal that the budget does not take this into account, since a cash transaction amortised over the term of the securities does not constitute a cash or a disbursement, which makes it in some way invisible from a budgetary point of view. I therefore understand the scheme provided for by the LOLF, which it is necessary to maintain in the state under pain of budgetary insinuity – the premiums to the issue or the discounts modifying the budgetary reality of the state accounts. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u102	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u103	Same opinion, for the same reasons. Our position coincides with that of the rapporteur, and we have also seen this disagreement with Mr de Courson on several occasions. I will only add that the forecast of the amount of the premiums to the issue is detailed in the explanatory memorandum to the clause of the original finance or settlement bill corresponding to the funding table, which is put to the vote of parliamentarians. Therefore, Parliament is fully informed; If I may, Mr de Courson, the best proof of this is that you are dealing with the subject in every budget debate. We can therefore continue to have this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u104	On Amendment No 112, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u105	In private accounting, what would happen to these premium issues? They would not be treated as cash transactions, but as budgetary transactions. Otherwise, you create the illusion of a debt below its real level – in this case about a hundred billion, or almost four points of GDP, which is not nothing. Public debt does not represent 118% of GDP, as it is said, but 122%! I see on these benches experts-accounters: Mr. Laqhila, Mrs. Louwagie: ask them how a system of premiums to the issue in private accounts translates! Not a company would make it, like the state, a cash transaction! There is therefore a question of budgetary sincerity and, beyond that, of the question of the government's debt strategy. The AFT says it's managing it alone, which you confirmed to us. However, there are States where, unlike you, your counterparts give guidance on this, for example, that they do not grant premiums for the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u106	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 112, which deletes Rule 3a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u107	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u108	The public vote announced on this amendment will therefore not take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u109	The rapporteur's amendment No 15 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u110	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u111	The aim is to abolish the principle of the ratification by law of finance of decrees for remuneration for services rendered. At the time of the drafting of the LOLF, the legislator had hesitated between this ratification procedure and a simple presentation of these decrees as an annex to the bill of regulation; the first option was chosen, but its actual scope appears limited. We have committed ourselves to simplifying the law: because ratification is devoid of a legal character, it would be wise to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u113	From the moment when Parliament's information is preserved, which seems to be the case, favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u114	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u115	I have always found this strange ratification provision, since the rates of remuneration for services rendered are fixed by regulatory acts – decrees or decrees. There is therefore no problem with us adopting this Government amendment. We could even delete any mention of these decrees: they are in any case published in the Official Journal, where the budget rapporteurs could consult them, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u116	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 114, which deletes Rule 3b.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u117	The purpose of this measure is to create within Title 5 of the State's budgetary expenditure the category of grants for investment expenses, which does not correspond to the title of Title 5: "Investment expenditure". In addition, it would duplicate expenditure categories under Titles 6 and 7. For the sake of simplicity, here again, we propose to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u119	We introduced this provision in a special commission, considering that what existed before the LOLF was more legible and operational. We wanted these subsidies to appear more clearly. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u120	I have before me two amendments, Nos 65 and 30, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u121	It addresses an important issue: the need to redefine investment and operating costs. In the spirit of President Woerth's amendment and the appeal amendment that we tabled in committee, we propose a new wording of the whole of Article 5 of the LOLF: it is a question of removing the categorisation under seven headings, which has ceased to be relevant and presents too many constraints, in particular because of the asymmetrical fungibility which affects the expenditure of Title 2. The classification of investment expenditure in Title 5 has also lost its relevance: it includes only expenditure to increase the State's assets. However, in the face of current development challenges, public authorities must invest in human capital and in the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u122	The president of the special committee has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u123	This is an important amendment, although it is rather an appeal amendment, because its wording can be reworked. The rapporteur and I have relied on Title 5 and the accounting definition of investment within the meaning of LOLF, which is what contributes to the increase in the State's tangible and intangible assets. It is clear that investment is not exactly the same for a private person as for a nation, or even for a local community. In the current context, the Government has been quick to draw a distinction between emergency and recovery expenditure: in essence, it was to join the distinction between operating and capital expenditure. At the end of this crisis, we will indeed be judged on our ability to spend in order to increase the country's heritage and stimulate growth. I therefore propose a different wording. On the one hand, there is the expenditure that every modern State like France must incur, which is not investment expenditure but expenditure on the future and operating expenditure. This is the case, for example, of education, which is a natural service to young people in a democratic state. And on the other hand, there is capital expenditure, which is not part of current expenditure. They are the basis and foundation of democracy, in that they raise the country's potential level of growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u124	Once the Government accepted this definition, it would adopt a new classification of expenditure and could justify its allocation by mission and programme in annual performance projects (APRs), for example. This would feed in a very positive and fundamental way the political debate on the concept of expenditure and on debt, by making it possible to distinguish in this respect what is part of the investment debt – which can be understood – from what is part of the operating debt. I do not totally oppose these two notions by considering that investment expenditure would be good and that operating expenditure would be bad. Very many operating expenses are obviously excellent expenses and correspond to the way the state is organised. So I do not make a value judgment, but I think that the debate needs to be fed by this distinction, and that it meets the objectives that we aim for through the bill. In my view, the Government should be prepared to consider this matter. The debate in the Senate by the fall of this year should make it possible to fine-tune the difference between operation and investment, but also to make it more real, not just accounting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u126	I share the concern to distinguish between operation and investment. President Woerth and Mr Dufrègne are right to stress the importance of this distinction, although their assessments are different. This debate is interesting and I consider these amendments to be an appeal: I am not sure that a level and methodology of distinction between investment and operation should be included in an organic law today, if only because of the difficulties that would be encountered in filling these two categories. In addition, we voted in a special committee, against the Government's opinion, to maintain certain clarification mechanisms concerning subsidies linked to investment expenditure in particular. The aim is precisely to begin to clarify the distinction between operation and investment. The fathers of the LOLF of 2001 had questioned this matter at their time and had not, in the end, retained the level of distinction proposed by these amendments. I therefore make a request for withdrawal and I propose that we move forward by "creating" what we have already adopted in the organic law and by continuing, in a second stage, the reflection and debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u128	I also make a request for withdrawal. The Government is in favour of further work on this subject, as President Woerth invites, with a view, inter alia, to clarifying the distinction between an investment that is likely to create growth and an investment that is not. Within the budget for higher education, research and innovation, for example, we do not know exactly how to differentiate at present between investments that could contribute to potential growth and those that are part of the day-to-day operation – even though it is very useful on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u129	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u130	When I was elected as a Member of Parliament in 2012, I knew the accounts of local authorities and businesses, and I was very surprised to see that there was no distinction between investment and operation in government accounts. This has given rise to a real incomprehension which I believe is shared by some of our fellow citizens: they regret the lack of transparency in the accounts of the State and do not understand that they are not subject to the same rules as those of local and regional authorities. It seems to me that the distinction proposed would be relevant and would provide clarification and transparency. [[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] You explain, Mr rapporteur, that it would be difficult to allocate expenditure between investment and operation. However, local authorities do not encounter this difficulty because rules specify precisely what falls within one or the other category. So your argument is not tenable. Since the distinction is made in the accounts of private companies as well as those of local authorities, it can also be made in the accounts of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u131	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u132	The distinction between investment and operating expenditure exists in the proposal for an organic law for the revision of the LOLF, but it is purely accounting. In fact, the Government will find it difficult to justify it because, when it presents very low capital costs and very high operating costs, the debate will be truncated. It therefore seems to me necessary to agree on a definition; The fact that I am proposing one and Mr Dufrègne is proposing another demonstrates that we are at the heart of the political debate. We must take advantage of the summer and September to move forward in the discussion. The aim is to arrive at a definition that allows for the construction of a budget without too many areas of blur but leaving the Government an area of choice. I therefore withdraw my amendment, taking into account the progress announced by the Deputy Minister, and we will resume this discussion as soon as we return.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u133	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u134	I also withdraw my amendment, but we must move forward on this, otherwise we will continue to point to the right and wrong spending. It seems to me important that the nation's accounts clearly show the so-called public spending that serves the development of our country. The reflection on this issue must move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u135	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u136	Our colleague Véronique Louwagie explained that she was very surprised, as an accountant, when she plunged into the state budget. Revenue levies are one of the possible sources of astonishment, since they are a contraction of revenue and expenditure: they cover the European levy on the one hand and part of the allocations to the local authorities on the other. In view of the fact that these levies considerably obscure the reading of the budget, I propose that they be abolished. In clear terms, the allocation of the French State to the European Union must be made through the European affairs budget and the allocations to local and regional authorities must go through the budget of the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities (RCT). We must put an end to contractions on considerable sums: we will gain in readability and clarity. As the two amendments on Article 3b have been withdrawn, I would also like to point out that the debate had already taken place in the Special Committee in 2001 when the draft LOLF was discussed. I was among those who were in favour of a clear presentation of operating and investment expenditure on the one hand. We have not won, but we have obtained an annex – which nobody, alas, reads – which presents the division between operating and investment expenses within the state budget. From memory, the first amounts to about 440 billion euros, compared to about 20 billion for the second. That is the reality of the state budget – but its current presentation does not allow us to grasp it. I come back to my amendment, which is intended to clarify the reading of the budget: revenue levies should not exist and the corresponding sums should simply be budgeted. This would not change anything for local authorities, or for the European Union, but at least it would be clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u138	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u139	I call on the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u140	Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u141	Mr de Courson, Amendment No 4 is being defended, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u142	He's going to be!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u143	You won't be able to speed up the debate, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u144	As a member of the Finance Committee for the past twenty-eight years, I have seen a number of drifts in the use of the appropriation for accidental and unpredictable expenditure (DDAI). A more precise definition of what is accidental and unpredictable would seem useful to me: several times, staffing has indeed been used for expenses that were completely predictable! I therefore propose this technical amendment, which is not very far-reaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u146	Until proven otherwise, the use of IADDs is by the rules. We have recently seen the almost maximalist use made of it. This allowed us to measure their usefulness in a crisis budget, particularly when it came to supporting the cultural and sports sectors last autumn. It therefore seems to me that DDAI are well framed; We have never seen any drifts in this regard, nor have we heard any testimony on this subject. The addition of the word "strictly" would therefore be unnecessary. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u147	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u148	Its purpose is to implement a recommendation of the Court of Auditors. The balance article defined in Article 34 I of the LOLF makes it possible to establish the general data of the budgetary balance. Through this amendment, the Government aims to make the balance table more readable in order to provide better information for national representation. As such, in the balance sheet as well as in Statement A of the original financial laws, government tax refunds and reliefs are currently subtracted from gross revenues to determine net revenues. At the same time, they increase net expenditures to form the aggregate of gross budgetary expenditures. This double accounting of revenue and expenditure, in both gross and net terms, unnecessarily complicates the reading of aggregates in the article of the balance of financial laws. In addition, it leads to the reprocessing of the State's gross revenue from local tax refunds and reliefs, although these represent a burden on the State and not a lower revenue. In accordance with a recommendation of the Court of Auditors, this amendment is therefore intended to modify this presentation, so that State tax refunds and reliefs can be deducted from the gross revenue of the State alone. The distinction between gross and net revenue, as well as the distinction between gross and net expenditure, would no longer be necessary, thus facilitating the readability of the balance table and revenue forecasts in Statement A. Parliament's information on credits for government tax refunds and reliefs will continue to be guaranteed by the continuation of the 200 program tracing these credits in Statement B, and associated budgetary documentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u150	It is very favourable: the simplification and clarification proposed in state A are welcome. They also address Charles de Courson's concern on a regular basis: State tax refunds and reliefs are indeed an expense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u151	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u152	I congratulate the Government on this initiative, which we have been asking it to take for years, and which was explained to us that it was impossible. We have obtained a first clarification: the distinction between local and state taxes. While I have read the summary statement correctly, the amendment deals only with the repayments and reliefs of state taxes. This is very good, but there is still the treatment of local tax refunds and rebates. We have always called for them to be simply budgeted in the RCT mission – just like the Court of Auditors, by the way. The amendment is not very clear in this respect. Could you tell us, Mr. Secretary of State, how you plan to deal with refunds and rebates that are not part of the revenue of the State but of the territorial authorities? In memory, this amounts to about ten billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u153	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u154	[[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] I'm not gonna pretend to answer you on such a technical subject, Mr. de Courson. I therefore undertake that an explanation will be given to you at a later stage, outside the sitting, so that you will be informed in full transparency of the scope of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u155	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u156	I propose that, in the case of an advance decree, the committee responsible for the mission concerned by the decree should be consulted in the same way as the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u158	In my view, the amendment is satisfactory: the Bureau of the Finance Committee can very well ask for consultation of the other committees with regard to the advance decrees. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u160	I will follow the rapporteur's opinion. Mr President, I take this opportunity to apologise to Olivier Dussopt: he had to be absent because of the current Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u161	Thank you for that clarification. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u162	If the amendment is satisfied, I will withdraw it. However, I note that there is very little practice in this type of consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u163	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u164	But, as the rapporteur has said, there is no objection to this. If the request is made, I imagine it will be accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u165	If it is done in the Bureau of the Finance Committee, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u166	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendments Nos 75 and 80, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u167	In accordance with article 13 of the LOLF, advance decrees issued by the Government must be the subject of prior notice by the Finance Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate. However, the hearing of the Minister of Finance by these committees is not subject to any obligation under the LOLF. Amendment No 75 therefore proposes to make systematic the hearing of the Minister by the Finance Committees in order to inform the opinions delivered by the committees. This proposal stems from the report of the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws of 2019. Amendment No 80 is withdrawn. Contrary to No. 75, it provides that the hearing of the Minister by the Finance Committees of the Assembly and the Senate would not be mandatory. It would simply be a matter of providing for the possibility, so that this hearing and the resulting advance order could feed the opinions of the committees concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u168	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u169	That will be the same answer as for Mr Dufrègne: your amendment No 80 is satisfactory, since such a hearing is already possible. Indeed, in the spring of 2020, we had heard the minister on the occasion of the last pre-order. During the previous legislature, when Ms. Rabault was rapporteur general, this practice was even systematic. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u171	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u172	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u173	I do not fully agree to withdraw them. You say that such hearings already exist: if that is the case, we can clarify things by writing in the law that they will be systematic. If they are already in practice, I don't see why they would not be included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u174	It's not organic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u175	I maintain the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u176	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u177	This small amendment aims to implement proposal 28 of the MILOLF report of 2019: to extend the deadline for the examination of pre-orders by the Finance Committees from seven to ten days. Frankly, it's a tiny thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u179	This is one of the few proposals of MILOLF which, without evaporating on the way, have not been accepted in the last draft of the organic law proposal, which is a compromise text. The opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u180	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u181	It is a somewhat more consistent amendment, but it is not in itself a consistent one. At the request of the Presidents of the Finance Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of hearing the President of the Finance Section of the Council of State in order to present the opinion given on the draft decree in advance. We discussed it: some say it's already possible, but we never did. It would be interesting to allow the chairmen of the Finance Committees to invite the president of the Finance Section of the Council of State to clarify the content of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u183	The opinion will be unfavourable. It seems to me that the Committee on Finance has every opportunity to hear from a section chairman of the Council of State, and I do not see what would prevent him from doing so. Moreover, because of the separation of powers – the Council of State being the adviser to the Government – it is not desirable for us to include what you are asking for in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u184	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u185	The aim of this amendment is to limit the carry-over of appropriations from one year to the next. Today, these carry-overs are not subject to any limits and are carried out without Parliament being formally informed of them. He must wait until the settlement law or then a potential communication from the ministers at the beginning of the calendar year. Although these appropriations were voted, they were voted for a given year. The fact that appropriations can be carried over without limits from one year to the next is a circumvention of Parliament. The example of PLFR 4, the fourth amending finance bill for 2020, is striking: Parliament was seized urgently to vote for several tens of billions of euros in additional appropriations in the Emergency Plan mission. Mostly not consumed, they were finally postponed to 2021. Such a practice poses difficulties in terms of legibility and democratic control; That is why we are asking for guidance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u187	This subject of the ceilings for the carry-over of appropriations is a debate that we have every year. Overall, it is realized that the 3% ceiling is kept and that it allows carry-overs that can be very useful. We have seen this again recently with the implementation of the budget for 2020. It seems to me that there is no urgency or need to amend the organic law in this sense. Above all, there is no evidence that there is a need to change these ceilings by program. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u188	Fifty-one programs...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u189	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u190	Article 15 of the LOLF defines the system of carry-overs of appropriations. Pursuant to the combination of Article 15 II – according to which the carry-overs of authorisations of commitments available on a programme at the end of the year "cannot increase the appropriations entered in the title of staff expenditure" – and the rules for the budgeting of Title 2, the payment appropriations available on Title 2 may not abound the payment appropriations entered in Title 2 the following year. The purpose of this proposed amendment is to extend this prohibition and to prevent staff appropriations not consumed at the end of management, with the exception of appropriations made available by way of assistance funds, being carried over to other securities. This clarification is budgetaryly virtuous, as it helps to prevent the effects of windfalls sometimes observed at the end of the management period on staff appropriations leading to an increase in expenditure the following year. The aim of this amendment is therefore to prevent cross-referencing between Title 2 and non-Title 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u192	This amendment makes it possible to further enshrine the principle of asymmetrical fungibility already provided for in the LOLF: favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u193	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u194	I would like to congratulate the Government on this initiative, because the current system allows us to circumvent the rule of annuality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u195	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u196	The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen the framework for carry-overs of appropriations. Article 15 of the LOLF provides that appropriations available at the end of the year may be carried over. The second paragraph of Article 2 of this Article provides that appropriations entered in the titles of the programme, other than the title of staff expenditure, may be carried over to the overall limit of 3% of all initial appropriations entered in the same titles of the programme. However, the last sentence of this paragraph opens the possibility of increasing this ceiling by 3 per cent by means of a provision of the Finance Act. This displeasure is not justifiable and can lead to a confusion of fiscal years. In the face of the crisis linked to the covid-19, to take the last example, the postponements from 2020 to 2021 were unpublished. They exceed 30 billion euros – 28.8 billion for the Emergency Plan mission alone – and have covered a large number of programmes. The Government has used this option to derogate from the 3 per cent ceiling. These postponements to 2021 are linked to a substantial under-consumption that could have been avoided despite the crisis. The Government should not have made such massive abundances in its fourth budget collective and could have appropriated appropriations in the finance law of the year; That would have been clearer. With this deferral system, if all these credits are consumed, we will find ourselves in the settlement law with an additional 30 billion compared to the original finance law. I find it very unhealthy. The example of the postponements from 2020 to 2021 is truly extraordinary by the scale of the phenomenon. For the readability of the finance law, it seems to me better to earmark appropriations rather than to finance expenditure by means of carry-overs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u198	This is the anti-amendment Dufrègne: you want to reduce the possibility of deferring appropriations when Jean-Paul Dufrègne proposed to expand it instead. The current level of balance seems pretty good to me. Above all, I repeat every time, it is national representation which, let us not forget, allows the Government to exceed, if necessary, by programme or mission, this ceiling of 3 per cent. We are sovereign in the decision. There is no need to provide, at the organic level, for either a limitation or a deflation. It happens every year here in Parliament: it is up to us to decide collectively. On the PLF 2021, we voted, by a majority, for the possibility of exceeding the ceiling. There is therefore no difficulty of organic rank.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u199	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u200	This amendment is not intended to reduce or increase the ceilings, but to increase the transparency and information of Parliament on the carry-overs of appropriations derogating from the ceiling rule laid down by the LOLF. Article 15 of the LOLF provides that payment appropriations available on a programme at the end of the year may be carried forward up to 3% of the appropriations entered in the original finance law. The same article states, however, that, in the case of non-Title 2 appropriations, "this ceiling may be increased by a provision of a finance law". Thus, the Government may seek the consent of the Parliament to allow it to carry over appropriations exceeding the ceiling of 3 per cent of the initial appropriations. Under the 2021 Finance Act, the Government requested this exemption for fifty and one programmes – that's not nothing. However, and as stated in Volume III of the report of the Finance Committee for the PLF 2021, the amount of the appropriations so requested is not disclosed at the time of the finance law. This raises a problem since Parliament has to decide on exceptional carry-overs of appropriations without any readability of the amounts they induce. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to ensure that the Government communicates the estimated amount of such carry-overs in respect of each programme for which it requests a carry-over exceeding the 3% ceiling set out in the LOLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u202	I share the intention and the question, but I do not think that such a provision falls within the scope of the organic law: request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u203	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u204	As early as 2019, the minister responsible for the budget undertook to move forward around April 15th the examination in the Council of Ministers of the draft regulation bill, in conjunction with that of the stability programme, so that the results of the budgetary and accounting implementation can feed into the debates on the prospects of public finances, as well as those of the Spring evaluation implemented by the National Assembly since 2018. This progress of more than a month and a half in the traditional timetable of the bill of regulation, reached this year with the tabling of the PLR on 14 April, required structural reforms of the processes of production and certification of state accounts, carried out in a few years by the departments of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, in close connection with the Court of Auditors. In order to sustain this fundamental development, which has been consistently welcomed by your assembly, this proposal for an organic law is already moving forward, in section 8, the deadline for tabling the bill of regulations on May 1st, against June 1st under section 46 of the LOLF. This amendment draws the consequences of this progress in the timetable by the deadline for the publication of orders to carry forward payment appropriations which remain available at the end of the financial year and the amounts of which are included in Articles 4 and 6 as well as in the quantified annexes to the PLR. Currently set at 31 March by Article 15 of the LOLF, this date is no longer compatible with the new production schedule of the PLR on the second Wednesday of April, around 15 April, given the consultation period of the Council of State which is about 10 days. Consequently, the deadline for the publication of payment appropriations that remained available at the end of the fiscal year is 15 days to ensure the complete consistency of the production schedule of the regulatory bill in the LOLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u205	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u206	Despite the principle of budgetary universality, two supplementary budgets remain: the Air Navigation Service (ANS) budget, the main budget, and, to be brief, the smaller budget of the national printing industry. We should abolish these two budgets in order, on the one hand, to create for the SNA either a public administrative establishment (EPA) or a public industrial and commercial establishment (EPIC), and, on the other hand, to reintegrate the budget of the national printing industry into the general budget or, on the other hand, to create, here too, a small EPIC. Since we have already abolished many of these budgets, in the last thirty years we should go to the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u208	It was a recommendation of MILOLF that we did not accept. To reflect, indeed, on keeping the last two supplementary budgets, the Annex budget for Air Control and Operations (BACEA) and the budget for the National Printing, is not completely absurd in the sense that commercial revenues – I am thinking of official publications – are thus visible by national representation, which would no longer be the case if we abolished these budgets. Is that enough reason to maintain them? We can discuss it. In the meantime, we have decided to keep them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u209	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u210	It aims to translate proposals made by a recent mission of the General Inspectorate of Finance on the supplementary budgets, by making three changes to the framework of the said budgets. First of all, it is a matter of ensuring consistency with the general budget by delinking budgetary operations – which will continue to be followed up with commitment and payment appropriations – and treasury operations – from drawing and repayment of loans. The display of the balance of the BACEA will thus be changed by making the truth about prices. Currently, the BACEA is always balanced through borrowing. It will therefore be, if the amendment is adopted, either in surplus or in deficit depending on its actual financial situation. Secondly, the amendment aims to broaden the area of budgets annexed to the expenditure inseparable from the operations already located on them and to change the documents relating to those budgets in the financial laws – this is a recommendation of the Court of Auditors. Finally, it is a matter of not incorporating into organic law the structure of the supplementary budgets and leaving it to the financial laws to define it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u212	I rely on the wisdom of the House because these proposals are in the right direction. Indeed, the technical adjustments envisaged will enhance the readability, hence the effectiveness of our control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u213	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u214	Do your proposals, Secretary of State, support the individualization and eventual creation of a legal entity governed by public law – an EPA or an EPIC, no matter what? I do not understand the scope of your amendment because we have not considered it in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u215	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u216	The changes envisaged do not go as far as the establishment of public institutions as you wished in your previous amendment. Nevertheless, while we wish to retain the supplementary budgets, we intend to provide the clarifications I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u217	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u218	In my opinion, this coordination amendment has fallen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u219	He is actually satisfied, so you can withdraw it, which will save us a philosophical debate on the fall and withdrawal of the amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u220	I shall therefore withdraw it in order to avoid launching a discussion which would in fact have little interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u221	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u222	The purpose of this amendment is to include in the LOLF the evolution, over time, of the content of the accounts intended to analyse the costs provided for in Article 27. The LOLF provides for the maintenance by the State of three accounts: budgetary, general and analytical. It was the decree of 7 October 2012 on budgetary management and public accounting that specified the contents of this third accounting designed to analyse costs. More specifically, it provided for the co-existence of a presentation in the schedules of the bill of regulations of cost analysis accounting in section 165 of the bill, and of a true cost accounting in section 166 of the bill, based on general accounting, as is the case in private companies or hospitals. This intermediate solution was intended, in particular, to remedy the difficulties of linking accounting entries to the programmes and actions of the LOLF when establishing general accounting within the Chorus application. The improvement of the general accounts carried out since then has enabled, as part of the simplification measures of the Public Action Transformation Programme 2022, the abolition of the presentation of the cost analysis accounts. It did not meet the expectations of public managers or parliamentarians. In addition, this was done in favour of an approach to the deployment of cost accounting, based on general accounting as originally provided for in articles 59 and 166 of the above-mentioned decree. Implemented for several exercises by the Ministry of Armed Forces, it is being deployed to several other ministries. It supports cost analyses, organizational and management optimization decisions. This amendment is intended to include this development in the LOLF and is therefore intended to replace the words "accounting for cost analysis" with the more precise and widespread terms of "analytical accounting", thereby clarifying and improving the readability of its content.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u223	The rapporteur's amendment No 16 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u224	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u225	It aims to clarify that the table in the balancing article presenting the distribution of the budget between operation and investment is an ad hoc table, so as to retain its legibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u227	The committee did not consider this amendment tabled very late, and we have some difficulty in understanding its purpose. I express an unfavorable opinion since it is important, in accordance with what we proposed in committee, that we have a single table and not several, a table with new subcolumns "operation" and "investment".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u228	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u229	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u230	I am very opposed to this amendment, which, despite appearances, significantly alters things. The balance paper presents a breakdown by type of revenue and by type of expenditure, and it is obviously necessary to include investment and operation, otherwise we will only have aggregated data and we will have to refer to another statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u231	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u232	I therefore believe that what is one of the pillars of the scheme should be maintained as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u233	The Government's amendment No. 113 is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u234	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u235	The draft law provides for an increase to the level of the organic law the obligation for the financial laws of the year, to determine the employment ceiling for institutions with financial autonomy (EAF), i.e., mainly French cultural institutes abroad. While this is the practice of the latest financial laws, the Government wants this to be removed from the text because the concept of EAF is problematic. These institutions are devoid of legal personality. This provision is therefore contradictory to the purpose of the bill. It is intended to streamline all budgetary interventions made by funds or bodies without legal personality. In this article, however, it aims to raise the EAFs – which are precisely not provided with this legal personality – to the organic level. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to remove from the organic law the ceilings of the FTEs, as information on their jobs continues to be provided by the annual performance project of the State's External Action Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u237	Even if I do the same as before, that of having received this amendment very late, I am relying on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u238	The rapporteur's amendment No 17 is for coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u239	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u240	It is an amendment of appeal on a subject of little discussion, that of the abandonment of debt by our country in respect of certain other countries. This obviously has enormous consequences in terms of public finances. It is the action of the Paris Club, which worked a lot ten or fifteen years ago before its action was greatly reduced. It seems that more and more cases are coming at the moment, and, with the health and economic crisis that we are experiencing, the files will inevitably multiply. There is already one before us, that of the abandonment of Sudan's debt by all the countries concerned. For our country, that is EUR 4 billion – I say EUR 4 billion. This deserves us to talk about it, to exchange it, to give authorizations, if necessary; But this is not the case: we simply take note of it. My wish is for Parliament's authorisation to be sought upstream. The management of the budget is little or no subject to a system of budgetary authorization, Parliament controls its action, but the management of the Treasury which manages all this acts only under the authority of the Government, completely ignoring the legislative mechanism. It is an appeal amendment, and I do not claim to have the answer to that question; But it seems to me, in view of the considerable abandonment of debts that will occur in the months or years to come, that our House must take this into account, otherwise the French taxpayers will feel that major decisions are taken without their representatives being able to speak in a general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u242	I welcome the initiative of Marc Le Fur, Special Rapporteur of the PLF, to translate what is a reality into the text. The difficulty is to know how far we can go without preventing the Government's action in these extremely important, sometimes sensitive and, above all, recurrent operations. This is the case with the operations that our colleague quotes; We could also mention the work of Agence France Trésor. We can compare the work of the Paris Club and the Treasury to Bercy. It seems to me complex to freeze in the law a parliamentary authorization for debt service operations. On the other hand, monitoring can probably be improved. We can start by hearing the Treasury, perhaps with the Agence Française de Développement (AFD), try to better understand how these debt abandonments work to third countries, with a view to better legislating where appropriate and, why not, try to find a mechanism for transmitting more recurrent information both upstream and downstream, for example to the Special Rapporteur of the Official Development Assistance mission. This can be built, but creating a frozen authorization before these operations seems to me too rigid and ineffective. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u244	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u245	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u246	It's true that we don't see much. I understand very well that we cannot decide everything – we are for many of the children of the Fifth Republic, but still. In the settlement law, in financial assistance, if a debt is abandoned, this is evident somewhere. However, this is probably not enough, and Marc Le Fur is right: there is something to do, such as a commission information measure. Committee presidents are informed of the willingness to raise capital or of a capital operation: perhaps there should also be a mechanism for informing the Finance and Foreign Affairs Committees on the granting and reduction of loans. We could, Mr Secretary of State, look at this before a new reading and try to reach a compromise that would enable Parliament to be informed, especially since these operations are carried out between several states.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u247	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u248	I think that is a very good amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u249	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u250	I suggest, Mr. Le Fur, that we look at this in the coming weeks. In particular, one question must be resolved: whether this measure falls within the scope of the organic law or the finance law. In the meantime, I propose that you withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u251	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u252	Our colleague raises a real problem, but in terms of lending, he is not the only one. An authorization with a ceiling could be perfectly devised: the Government could lend only to a certain extent. Another problem, which our colleague has raised but which is not explicitly included in his amendment, is the abandonment of debts, which is not a budgetary operation but, as the chairman of the committee has pointed out, an operation carried out under the Rules of Procedure. There is something to dig into, which is a matter of the debate between the budget and the treasury operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u253	It's still in the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u254	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u255	I am sensitive to our colleague's amendment because every year, when the financial texts are examined, ODA – official development assistance – is the subject of lively debates; It is also important to have as much information and transparency as possible. These operations are the granting of loans and the abandonment of debt. To the extent that these amounts can be significant, it is important to take account of the whole of ODA so that Parliament can benefit from information on all these issues, especially since they will certainly lead the debate in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u256	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u257	I thank each other for their words and their commitment. What needs to be borne in mind is the disproportion between the often modest sums we are talking about here and the debt abandonments, which can be enormous. I was talking about Sudan's 4 billion: it's in front of us in the coming weeks, but there will be many more because of the economic crisis. We cannot leave our taxpayers without information. I understand the difficulty, which is that these debt abandonments are the result of collegial structures, the Paris Club, all the creditors, and it is difficult to go against this. The actions we are talking about are the responsibility of the Government and the Treasury, we understand it perfectly, but the person responsible for public money is Parliament. It seems essential to me that he take up this subject, not only by accessing information – we already have it, our administrations are now honest with us – but also, at the very least, by helping to make the decision. Having said that, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u258	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u259	[[Ms. Cendra Motin smiles]] This is an amendment which, I believe, gives rise to the enthusiasm of the rapporteur-general. During the preparation of this text, the authors consulted the Council of State on their desire to draw up a summary table of the taxes affected. The Council of State proposed that this table should have a normative scope to define the assignees. The Government is in favour of this development, taken up by the rapporteur in amendment No. 94 adopted by the Special Committee. However, this development leads to the possibility that the Finance Act may, as it stands, provide for provisions on assigned taxes not capped at the same time in both the first and second parts. The purpose of this amendment is to go back to the first part of these provisions in order to ensure that provisions of the same nature, the allocation of taxes, are all in the same part of the Finance Act. The aim is to ensure the clarity of the discussions and avoid two debates on assignments, first in the first part and then in the second.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u261	[[Smile]] We are not far from agreeing. Each has its own reading of the opinion of the Council of State. Our position seems to us to be the right one for the readability of the texts. The principle is to include in the first part measures having a direct impact on the State budget and, in the second part, measures without direct impact. Capped taxes having a direct impact, they must be included in the first part; the uncapped taxes do not have one, they must be included in the second part. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u262	The rapporteur's amendment No 23 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u263	The next speaker is Mr Aleksandr Holroyd, in support of Amendment No 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u264	This amendment, which we discussed this morning in committee under Rule 88, aims to ensure that we can ratify tax treaties through a provision in the PLF. This amendment has not been discussed at the initial meeting in committee, and I have heard in discussions with a few colleagues concerns about the expertise that the Committee on Foreign Affairs brings on this kind of subject. I would like to ask the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee, who are the authors of this proposal for an organic law, whether, as part of the discussions with the Senate, we can try to find a more inclusive mechanism, so as to retain the substantive advantage proposed by the amendment while benefiting from the views of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u265	I'll take it back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u266	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment, taken up by Mrs Rabault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u267	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u269	The Government, on the substance, does not see the amendment with a bad eye, but the subject is a matter of parliamentary concord, if I may say so. So the decision of MP Holroyd to withdraw it seemed to me, at this point, to be the right one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u270	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u271	I will give the floor to the chairman of the committee, it is statutory, but our Rules of Procedure, and Mr de Courson should know this because of his good knowledge of our texts – as Mr Barrot did for having voted on it and Mrs Rabault for having opposed it – does not provide for a debate when an amendment is taken up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u272	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u273	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u274	I am pleased that the amendment is being taken up, because I am quite in agreement with its principle. It seems to me to be common sense: it is not normal, it seems to me, that a tax convention cannot be examined in a finance law. In fact, we are talking about a power relationship between the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs: these are shop debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u275	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u276	I believe that this must be done in good intelligence with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is not a question of taking power, it retains its capacity to examine conventions, but, if it is absolutely necessary to incorporate a convention into a financial text, we are proceeding with it. Such a measure would give Parliament flexibility. No one's trying to pull the blanket for himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u277	It is true that the public interest must prevail!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u278	It would be the same if we had merged LOLF and LOLFSS: no power relationship between the Social Affairs Committee and the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u279	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u280	[[Smile]] In view of the fact that the floor has been requested by various groups, I will allow for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, with the rapporteur and the Secretary of State also encouraging me to do so for the sake of clarity in our debates. I will therefore give the floor to Mrs Rabault, Mr Barrot and Mr de Courson, while asking them to be brief – especially Mr de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u281	[[Smile]] It's discrimination!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u282	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u283	We must give priority to France's interest in the kitchens, which are a little butterflies, with regard to the referral of certain committees on tax treaties. We have discussed a great deal here the tax treaty with Qatar, in which real estate gains from all Qatari funds are exempt from tax, for significant amounts. Whenever we ask the Government for details of these amounts, whatever the majority, we cannot get the amounts. I do not question the Committee on Foreign Affairs at all, far from it, but, when the implications are so important in the state budget, it is not normal for the Committee on Finance to be unable to have information and an opinion at the time of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u284	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u285	It's undemocratic. We cannot tell our fellow citizens who pay taxes that we allow others not to pay them and that they must not know: they must know who and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u287	[[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LR benches. – Mrs Émilie Cariou and Mr Charles de Courson also applaud]] We cannot give priority to the organizational matters of our committees over the interests of France and our fellow citizens, whom we represent, in relation to taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u288	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u289	What is this really about? Trying to gain some efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u290	But yes, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u291	Bills to ratify tax treaties consume legislative time, a legislative time that cannot, therefore, be spent on other uses. However, Amendment No 61 is presented to us at the last minute, and it is disappropriating our colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs from their prerogatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u292	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u293	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u294	It seems to me that the author of the amendment acknowledged this earlier, but did not go back to his conviction that there is a need for reflection on the subject. Discussions began with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and with its Chairman, Jean-Louis Bourlanges. Instead of voting on this amendment at first reading, I propose that the rapporteur and the chairman of the Special Committee LOLF-LFSS continue the dialogue with Jean-Louis Bourlanges in order to reach a solution satisfactory to all in the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u296	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u297	The amendment by our colleague Alexandre Holroyd, to which I am in favour, does not affirm that the Committee on Finance has sole competence in the field of tax treaties, but suggests that it consult the Committee on Foreign Affairs on sensitive matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u298	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u299	That the Committee on Finance should ask for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on difficult cases is a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u300	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u301	In the summary statement of the amendment, Alexandre Holroyd recalls that in his decision on the 2016 amending finance law – I did not have time to review the text – the Constitutional Council considered that a measure intended to authorize the ratification or approval of international conventions in tax matters through a financial law provision would be similar to a fiscal rider. It is, to say the least, surprising, a tax treaty that by definition modifies the revenue of the State. The measure proposed by this amendment therefore seems entirely logical. If, however, there is still concern about this measure, the amendment, in my view, allows us to respond to it by providing clarification and by opening a simple possibility, that of using finance laws to allow the ratification or approval of international conventions in tax matters, without fundamentally calling into question the usual procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u303	The Qatari case shows that. We have discussed for years the tax advantages granted to Qatar, in particular the taxation of the property gains of its nationals. When an international convention derogates from a principle adopted by the French State for the sake of homogeneity, it is a blow to the legal framework of which it is important for the Committee on Finance to take action. These are the reasons why I am in favour of 'the Holroyd amendment', which has become 'the Rabault amendment' – we could also say 'the Courson amendment' or other Members!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u304	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u305	I thank Mr Holroyd for having tabled this amendment and Mrs Rabault for having taken it over because it concerns a highly taxed subject. As you know, we are regularly confronted with problems with certain tax treaties that promote tax exile, which is the cause of many scandals, and which should be cleaned up. Qataris have been mentioned because of the arrangements they have received for their French assets. On the other hand, very serious information has still recently leaked about French tax exiles in Dubai. Clearly, the tax measures contained in the bilateral tax treaties require a review by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u306	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u307	The effects of these agreements must also be taken into account in financial laws through impact studies which would examine the situation of non-taxed persons in France and of French citizens not taxed abroad. This amendment does not prevent anyone from working, especially the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to look at international tax conventions. On the other hand, it opens up an essential opportunity to carry out the work of grooming tax treaties, which is just beginning. I am therefore entirely in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u309	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u310	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u311	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u312	This appeal amendment proposes to establish a joint discussion of the revenue components of the PLF and PLFSS, as proposed by MILOLF in 2019. Indeed, their separate discussion does not allow for an overall view of the major budgetary balances, which undermines the readability of Parliament's debates. In addition, the application perimeters of the PLF and PLFSS have to overlap. For example, in the context of the 2018 budget, the Government implemented the transformation of the CICE through a reduction in long-term social contributions. On the one hand, the reduction in the social contribution rate from 1 January 2019 was included in Article 8 of the PLFSS; On the other hand, the decrease in the CEC rate in 2018 and its abolition from 1 January 2019 were set out in Article 42 of the PLF. With this amendment, it is therefore a matter of raising the debate about a better articulation of financial laws and social security financing laws. From a normative point of view, the introduction of such a measure into an organic law does not seem to pose constitutional difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u313	A little though...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u314	The Constitutional Council had interpreted the first paragraph of article 47 of the Constitution as authorizing the Organic Law "to lay down procedures for the examination and vote of financial laws, which may, if necessary, give temperament to the rules of ordinary law of the legislative procedure". Accordingly, the Council of State had considered that such constitutional authorization was sufficient "to allow for the adoption of substantive provisions for the joint consideration of social security and financial financing bills, with a view to enhancing the intelligibility of parliamentary debate on financial laws".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u315	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u316	We have already addressed this issue in the general discussion. I agree with the objective of a joint discussion of the revenue components of the PLF and the PLFSS, but the issue has been decided and we have decided not to go any further at this time. The proposed measure is also a constitutional bill rather than an organic bill. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u318	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u319	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u320	I will support this amendment for the following reason: previously, social income came from social contributions, which guaranteed a clear distinction between the PLF and the PLFSS, whereas a large part of social expenditure is now financed by tax, whether direct or indirect – VAT, tobacco taxes – which justifies a common approach to revenue, in the interests of consistency. If our goal is to better control government revenues and taxes, then we must stop distinguishing between the two pipes, and the same institution must proceed to arbitration. I shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment on a personal basis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u321	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u322	...but I probably won't be the only one to do it in my group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u323	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u324	I was draftsman of the opinion 15 years ago when the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws was adopted. We then asked ourselves this same question and agreed that, as a first step, a joint discussion of the revenue components of the PLF and the PLFSS should be planned, if only for the sake of consistency – the same concern for consistency that guides several articles of the proposed organic law on social security financing laws that we will be discussing earlier – between the amounts entered as reimbursements in the PLF and the amounts entered as revenue in the PLFSS – I am thinking in particular of the various exemptions and reductions. I am therefore very much in favour of this amendment, especially since it does not say that the revenue components of the PLF and PLFSS'must', but 'can', are the subject of a joint discussion. It therefore opens the possibility of a joint discussion of the first part, provided, of course, that there is good coordination between the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u325	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u326	It goes back to the withdrawals of debts granted by France to certain foreign states. In the light of the conclusions reached earlier in our debate, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u327	The rapporteur's amendment No 43 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u328	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u329	This amendment, which is not simply intended to invite reflection, deals with a delicate and difficult subject: whether tax laws are retroactive or not, which is now the subject of the assessment of the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, in accordance with our international commitments. With this amendment, I propose to frame the concept of retroactivity by defining it and clarifying its scope, and to give Parliament the opportunity to link a sustainable tax system to a savings product, which it cannot currently do, since, as we can see, the finance law amends the tax rules in this area year after year. This amendment may seem revolutionary to you, but it is not revolutionary, since it reproduces the definitions applied by different jurisdictions in the proposed organic law. As a Member of Parliament, it is not normal for these courts to replace Parliament, because of its failure, in order to regulate measures justifying retroactivity or not. In fact, I have taken up a whole series of decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u331	This amendment reflects Charles de Courson's old conviction that it was at the heart of his proposal for an organic law limiting the use of retroactive tax provisions. I understand the intention of the proposed measure, which aims to avoid tax zigzag to protect savers and especially long-term savers. This intention is commendable and justified. However, things are more complicated in fact. Indeed, this provision necessarily requires binding the hands of parliamentarians and blocking, for several years, certain tax systems – although it is obviously not the income tax or the generalised social contribution (CSG). The amendment relates exclusively to savings products, whose opening conditions it seeks to secure. Recall that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council already protects savers from harmful windscreen wipers. Moreover, the executive and legislative branches should not be deprived of the possibility of systematically amending the tax law. This is not possible on the constitutional level – I know that we do not agree on this point – but above all it is not desirable. On the other hand, we need to improve tax coherence and legibility – I believe, in all humility, that our majority has shown that it is possible – in order to set a tax path over several years, which cannot be modified from one fiscal year to another, and to explain to households and businesses why we choose such a path rather than another. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u333	I know that Mr de Courson does not share our analysis of the unconstitutionality of his amendment, but let me remind him that at least it appears on the record. The Constitution establishes a rule of competence for the legislator to define the provisions relating to the rate, base and method of collection of the tax. Beyond this rule of jurisdiction, it does not lay down any substantive rules for the legislator in matters of taxation. The organic legislator is therefore not empowered by the Constitution to compel the ordinary legislator to dispose solely for the future in tax matters. This amendment, if adopted, would probably be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Council. The intention seems commendable to us and the Government shares the objective of avoiding tax retroactivity, but for the reasons set out, it can only be unfavourable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u334	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u335	This is a key amendment that belongs to the series of those tabled by Charles de Courson; It deals with the retroactivity of the tax provisions and must question us very effectively. It certainly poses a problem of constitutionality, but I think above all that a government cannot bind its hands in this way. The temperature and pressure conditions can now change very quickly, as you know; However, when the Government defines a scheme and the rules associated with it, the scheme is generally non-viable for a period of four or five years. Thus, the people who are subjected to it continue to do so even if conditions have changed profoundly. The Government must therefore have the opportunity to amend the rules. However, he cannot do it anyhow: the judge has shown it on several occasions, in very specific cases, but he must avoid plundering savers. I am not in favour of the amendment because I believe that we cannot govern by being subjected to such blockages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u336	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u337	I will respond to the two arguments that have been opposed to my amendment. He who invokes his unconstitutionality does not hold. What does my amendment say? He proposed that Parliament should be able to guarantee the stability of a tax system, for example for a saver, for a fixed period of time. This does not prevent him from changing the regime in question for new savers, without doing so for the old ones. I did not write the amendment alone: I did it with the greatest jurists, and it took us a lot of time. That is what this argument is about: there is no problem of unconstitutionality. Moreover, since the organic law is automatically referred to the Constitutional Council, you will see what it will decide on whether the amendment, which is largely based on its jurisprudence, is adopted. You then say, President Woerth, that such a measure would bind us feet and fists – this is the second argument. That's not right! It is always possible to change the rules as desired, but only for the future, for new savers and not for those who have already entered into a certain tax system, for example with regard to a savings product. What happened, ladies and gentlemen, when attempts were made to change the life insurance tax system retroactively? In the present case, they have encountered a constitutional problem relating to the current case law. For my part, I think it is up to us to set the rule, rather than to trust the courts to find a mechanism to protect taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u338	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u339	It's a very small amendment, really not revolutionary. It aims to establish in a simpler way, while keeping in mind the spirit of what the rapporteur had proposed to us, the obligation of the Government to make available to us "by any means" – whether digital or otherwise – the text of the draft finance law, without however returning to the obligation that was removed by the special commission and that required it to distribute a printed version.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u340	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u341	Mrs Motin's amendment gives me the opportunity to clarify once again what we have done in committee. Let it be clear: the Government will continue to print, table and distribute budget documents; However, the obligation to print will no longer result from the LOLF, as is the case today, but from an agreement between Parliament and the Government. It can therefore be adapted according to needs. The idea is to introduce more flexibility with regard to the respective proportions of digital and paper documents. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u343	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u344	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u345	It aims to ensure a period of ten days between the filing of the PLF and the commencement of its review in committee. During the review of the PLF for 2021, the text had been tabled on 30 September and the panel review had begun on 5 October. You will understand that such deadlines do not allow parliamentarians to take full notice of the text and amend it in good conditions. We therefore propose the introduction of a minimum time limit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u346	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u347	The amendment is intended to amend the examination of the budgetary tasks in statement B. In particular, it provides for parliamentarians to vote not only on the whole of a mission, but on each of the budgetary programmes. Missions sometimes include very different programmes, on which a group may have opposing views. Such a procedure would provide a more accurate and clearer picture of the position of each group in the context of the budgetary discussions. We also propose to re-establish the extended committees that previously existed to examine budgetary missions. In addition to the fact that holding a single commission – instead of two – would be more convenient, such enlarged commissions would lead to richer exchanges; They would also prevent the Committee on Finance from taking precedence over the relevant thematic committee, so to reaffirm that the vote on the budget and the missions is not just a financial matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u349	We have talked about this very little today, but it is a central element of this organic bill. What we want is also to reverse the seasons: less fall of the authorization, more Spring of the evaluation. We want to avoid a further increase in the parliamentary authorisation mechanism that takes place in the autumn, which could be produced by enlarged committees or a vote for each budget programme; We prefer to strengthen the spring evaluation. It is therefore the Public Policy Evaluation Commissions (PPECs) that need to be strengthened. They do not fall within the sole competence of the Finance Committee, since they are open to other committees; The draftsmen have every place in the evaluation, and they too have to participate in the evaluation by making their point of view. Unfavorable opinion, therefore, especially because I do not share your view of the timetable: rather than increasing again in the fall, I think we should strengthen the spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u350	That's what they say, there's no more seasons!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u351	I call Mr Cédric O, Secretary of State, to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u352	Article 44 of the LOLF lays down the arrangements for allocating the appropriations made available by the Finance Act. The provision of a regulatory text reflecting the intended distribution is not legally necessary; The decree in question provides for an allocation of appropriations identical to that provided for in the Finance Act. Thus, such an act is not necessary, since the finance law does not need an implementing text to produce effects. However, it is necessary to maintain a regulatory text to designate the authorising ministers for each programme. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to eliminate the use of an allocation decree and to replace it with a decree appointing the ministers to benefit from the appropriations granted by the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u353	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u354	You know our immoderate love for article 40 of the Constitution. If it is not possible to delete it, we propose to relax its interpretation, as provided for in Article 47 of the LOLF. Article 40 represents in our view – and probably in the eyes of many others – a genuine obstruction of parliamentary work, a limitation of our ability to act. It is therefore an amendment of withdrawal – and not an amendment of appeal – whose adoption would be a significant step forward. Thus, we propose that the "public office" referred to in Article 40 should be understood not at the level of each budget mission, but rather at the level of all the appropriations allocated by the Finance Act. This would significantly broaden the scope for legislative amendments, which is still valuable from a democratic point of view, while having the virtue – this is an important point for the majority – to maintain the overall budget envelope at a constant level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u355	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u357	I will respond quickly to all the amendments concerning Article 40. It is an article of the Constitution; So it is not the right text to talk about it, even if you have just established a fairly skilful bridge in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u358	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u359	As I do not have jurisdiction over its application and the financial admissibility of the amendments, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u360	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u361	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u362	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u363	In general, I am not very in favour of Article 40. This is paradoxical since I apply it, with the help of my teams, in the most effective and objective way possible. When there is doubt, it always benefits parliamentarians, but some subtleties should not be overlooked. After all, we are in France and, if everything was simple, it would be clear! We are therefore trying to apply Article 40 as best we can and it takes a lot of time for the teams concerned. However, I think we should apply it either entirely or not at all. As it is the Constitution, you have found a clever way to change its application, but I do not believe that such a measure would make matters easier; In practice, this would probably make them more confused. At some point, it may be necessary to ask the question of Parliament's responsibility for the conduct of public finances, considering that it is almost as responsible as the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u364	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u365	Otherwise, there wouldn't be that much deficit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u366	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u367	It is very simply intended to introduce some flexibility in budgetary discussions by allowing parliamentarians, for example when they propose to increase the appropriations of one mission, to be able to offset this increase by a reduction granted to another mission; This would give them the opportunity to work on a number of different missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u368	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u369	It relates to something that we very often condemn as parliamentarians – and we are right to do so: the last-minute amendments. I am not talking about the small amendments but about those that go so far as to completely rewrite articles when they were tabled after the deadline for Members expires: we cannot work on them. It is therefore a matter of requiring the Government, when doing so, to attach an impact assessment. This would prevent these practices that have been going on for too many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u371	We are tempted to approve your proposal because as parliamentarians, we all share this annoyance with regard to last-minute amendments. Unfortunately, I believe that making the procedure too rigid would sometimes prevent some of them from being tabled in agreement with parliamentarians – we know that this happens regularly – to make a necessary change following discussions that we could have had together. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u372	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u373	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u374	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u375	I was shocked to see that considerable amendments, sometimes representing hundreds of millions of euros – these are not small amendments to 10, 20 or 30 million – were tabled with barely a summary statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u376	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u377	This is not possible, it is a lack of respect for Parliament! The Government may object to this amendment, but it must undertake, when submitting last-minute amendments, to accompany them with copious statements, explaining their submission. It cannot be content, as has been seen several times, to propose an amendment without an impact assessment or any supporting document.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u378	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u379	This amendment does not prevent the tabling of last-minute amendments. It is simply planning to inform parliamentarians, and that is the least of it. I am not a specialist in the matter, but in which country, around us, do such practices exist? In which country do we allow such contempt of Parliament? Two things: either the Government is preparing its bill over the leg and is waiting for last-minute amendments to improve it; either he does so voluntarily, because he has things to hide. In both cases, Members are not informed. I repeat: your argument, rapporteur, is not good. Such a measure would not prevent last-minute amendments; It would simply allow us, if they are tabled, to have the necessary explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u380	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u381	Indeed, Mr. de Courson is right: in the last finance law, several articles were not quantified or evaluated. In particular, you created a new corporate tax niche that was not evaluated at all. This is already a problem with respect to draft finance laws. This is even more problematic when government amendments are added to this – not just those of the current one. Government, by the way, and I could once again evoke the famous niche Copé, costing 200 million euros and cost 20 billion in two years! We have a real democratic problem here. On this point, Mr Zumkeller is right. In the countries around us, with a parliamentary regime that is purer than that of the Fifth Republic, the government cannot do so with unevaluated measures. Parliaments have much more information and, above all, power. It would be a step forward for our democracy if we could improve the amendments and get impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u382	The rapporteur's amendment No 44 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u383	The rapporteur's amendment No 45 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u384	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u385	It follows on from our discussions in the special commission, which did not result in the resumption of the binding arrangements to hold a debate on the Government's debt report. We therefore propose that it be made clear that the report will contain an explanatory part in which the debt from primary government deficits will be differentiated from that from the interest burden. We also ask that it be made clear that the report will contain all the assumptions used in the analyses, allowing conclusions to be drawn. We therefore wish to prevent this report from being transformed into an ideological instrument.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u386	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u387	Your amendment is satisfied. As provided for in Article 9, the Government's report will only be able to provide the details you are requesting regarding the sustainability, service and medium- and long-term financing conditions of the debt. That is why I am asking for your amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u388	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u389	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u390	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u391	To hear the rapporteur, I should always be fully satisfied. Well, I'm not and I'm not withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u392	[[Smile]] I understood that because I was about to cast the vote on this amendment that you are holding!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u393	Mr François Jolivet has the floor to support Amendment No 64 – a very good figure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u394	I understand that we should not make a revolution and content ourselves with evolution today. However, the aim of this amendment is to require the State to manage its real estate assets, to amortise them and to monitor the depreciation of its value. As parliamentarians, we are voting on investment budgets, but we do not know how they are used or the depreciations that some goods can suffer – it can be a building that takes water and has not been allocated resources. As the value of these real estate assets does not appear in the state's accounts, we are in the fog. When it comes to its national public institutions, the State has imposed an accounting with depreciation and followed by the value of the assets. To return to the comparisons, I believe that the French State is the last European country not to amortise its real estate; hence this appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u395	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u396	This is indeed an appeal amendment, but it is far from uninteresting. In our current accounting, should the state apply the depreciation rules that exist in business? The question arises. For my part, I think this may be the case, especially in the real estate sector. So we have to think about it, knowing that it is not an organic law, as you said. Mr. Michel Prada, responsible for a mission on general accounting, could perhaps include this theme of reflection. The Finance Committee could also look into the matter. In the next stage, we will have to think about the major issues of accounting in our country, which give rise to recurring amendments. Often proposed by Mr de Courson, these amendments relate more to accounting than to legal or organic matters. That is why I am asking for this amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u397	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u398	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u399	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u400	The purpose of this amendment is to remove the three-year presentation of the finance bill as an annex. The Government shares the concern to improve pluriannuality: in this case, the idea is also to take into account the need to ensure better control of expenditure. The pluriannuality of credits has two flaws: at best, it sanctifies a credit path on which it is then impossible to charge savings; At worst, it provides a minimum basis on which new appropriations are added each year. To preserve our ability to save money, this amendment tends to remove this multi-year trajectory of programmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u401	We'll remember!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u403	We discussed this important element of the bill in a special committee. As I mentioned earlier in the general discussion, our first priority is to introduce more pluriannuality, while respecting the principle of annuality inherent in our Constitution. After the long debate we had at the General Assembly of the Council of State, we believe that it is appropriate to maintain this three-year rolling presentation by programme within the PAPs. This does not mean that projections are binding over three years. By definition, we will only vote on commitment authorities and payment appropriations for year n+1, which does not prevent us from having a three-year presentation by program. This very interesting presentation allows the legislator to plan programme by programme. It allows special rapporteurs to follow the direction of the appropriations in a slippery manner and, where appropriate, to better assess their evolution. Having a substantive disagreement with the Government on the matter, we wish to retain the provision adopted in a special commission. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u404	Mr Eric Woerth, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u405	This provision should not be affected. Programming over several years is not a way to lock up and prevent spending – it is not impossible to project savings. In any case, budgetary annuality prevails. In the PAPs, rolling three-year programs are a good thing, quite in the spirit of our work on the LOLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u406	Bad time for the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u407	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u408	Secretary of State, I feel like I have heard again what I have heard for twenty-eight years from all your predecessors in the direction of the budget: it is not necessary to make projections because the ministers will interpret them as a "right to". It's not about that at all. Your argument doesn't hold. The truth is simple: you can see nothing when you apply the rule of annuality strictly, while two or three-year forecasts offer a real perspective. It is therefore absolutely necessary to support the text of the special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u409	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor to support Amendments Nos 103 and 6, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u410	These amendments aim to include in the organic law the new tool that we have had since the last finance law: the green budget, which gives us a new reading of the budget and serves as a guide for achieving our environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u411	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u412	On this occasion, I thank and congratulate once again Bénédicte Peyrol for his work on the green budget, a considerable step forward that we need to further promote and value. Nevertheless, I think that the organic rank is a little stiffening this practice on which we are still lacking in hindrance – the green budget has only been in existence for a year. On the other hand, it has its full place in an ordinary law. That is why I propose that you withdraw these amendments in favour of the one you tabled on the ordinary bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u413	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u414	I will make the same proposal – to withdraw these amendments in favour of the one you tabled in Article 7 of the ordinary bill – in order to avoid the rigidity mentioned by the rapporteur but also another risk: the green budget could be weakened if it were included in the organic law because compliance with the Constitution of such a development is not guaranteed. In the rule of law, there is a clear distinction: the organic law provides for the annexes of a budgetary nature allowing Parliament to assess the justification of the appropriations requested and the reliability of the revenue forecasts, while the ordinary law may provide for all kinds of other information, in particular that which allows Parliament to inform on more specific subjects – the environment falls within the latter category.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u415	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u416	The argument on rigidification convinces me little: as it is drafted, Amendment No 103 is very general and would not prevent, for example, the development of the last financial year. With my small means as a Member, I have not checked in detail the constitutional implications of my amendments. Even if this reduces the ambition I had for this green budget by asking for its inclusion in an organic law, I will withdraw them. That being said, I will return to the burden because I hope that Parliament will be able to appropriate this green budget, which must become a tool for criticism and for the evolution of programmes and appropriations so that we can achieve our climate objectives, which is not possible under the current budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u417	Since Mr de Courson has asked me about this, I would like to point out that I will adjourn the sitting at 20.00 p.m.: it is impossible to consider the remaining 120 amendments before dinner, even by prolonging the debate. I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u418	In the same way that each bill must be subject to an impact assessment, the financial laws must, for part of their provisions, be accompanied by a prior assessment that acts as an impact assessment. Such prior assessment of the articles shall include, inter alia, an assessment of the economic, financial, social and environmental consequences of the provisions, as well as the expected costs and benefits for each category of public administration and interested natural and legal persons. For these preliminary assessments, as well as for impact studies, the pen is held by the Government, the author of the text, which is thus judge and party. Governments are therefore sometimes tempted to present in an overly favourable light the measures they present, where stakeholders sometimes have a more critical appreciation of the proposed measures. In order to bring some contradiction to the exercise, and to ensure that screening assessments constitute real evaluations, this amendment of the Socialist and Related Members proposes that one or more of the specialized bodies listed in it be consulted, where a provision falls within one of their areas of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u419	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u420	The Ministry responsible for local authorities has in recent years made significant efforts to communicate the accounting and tax data of local authorities, now available on the website data.gouv.fr. However, the complexity of local finances and the variety of data involved in the design of budgets and accounts create an asymmetry of information that is detrimental to democratic debate and a source of false debate. The amendment seeks to create an annex to the draft regulation on management results and approving the accounts for the year presenting the consolidated accounts of the communes. In an open data approach and in order to facilitate its exploration and exploitation by civil society, citizens and parliamentarians, accounts by accounting code should be made public on the website data.gouv.fr.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u421	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u422	It aims to strengthen Parliament's information on the common agricultural policy (CAP) by providing that an annex to the draft regulation on management results and approving the accounts for the year lists, in a usable format, individual aid payments under the CAP by department. At the request of the European Commission, the Ministry of Agriculture has in recent years made significant efforts to communicate data on the common agricultural policy available on the Telepac website. It is now possible to download, category by category, and name by name, the amount of aid received by the operators. On the other hand, it is not possible to download a file, department by department, of all the aid received. This information is essential in order to allow for an end-to-end territorial pilotage. Moreover, the raw and retrospective nature of the available data does not allow for an overall view of it, which deprives Parliament of informed information. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that information on CAP aid can be aggregated into a single file available to all, with all the aid per department identified by its nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u423	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u424	Article 55 of the LOLF reads as follows: "Each of the provisions of a draft finance law affecting the resources or charges of the State shall be the subject of a quantitative assessment of its impact for the year in question and, where appropriate, for subsequent years. » In the course of the parliamentary discussion, the Government is regularly required to introduce provisions into the draft finance law by way of amendment. These provisions, failing to appear in the version of the text originally tabled on the Bureau of the National Assembly, are not subject to the evaluation obligation set out in Article 55 of the LOLF. In order to ensure that Parliament is informed at all times, the proposed provision is intended to extend the assessment obligation to amendments submitted by the Government during the legislative process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u425	On Article 11, I have two identical amendments, Nos 13 and 81. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u426	Paragraph 1 states that the questionnaires sent to the Government "for the purpose of examining and voting on the draft finance law of the year", pursuant to section 49 of the LOLF, "are exclusively concerned with requests for financial or budgetary information or with respect to tax expenditure". In its opinion of 1 July 2021, the Council of State drew the attention of parliamentarians to the risk of excessive restriction of the scope of the budget questionnaires which this provision entails. Even if we have to look at an amendment by the rapporteur which improves the wording a little, it is not acceptable for parliamentarians to restrict themselves. I therefore propose that Article 49 of the LOLF should not be affected and that paragraph 1 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u427	I call Mr Lambert to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u428	It is also intended to delete article 11, paragraph 1, which limits the scope of the Special Rapporteurs' questionnaires to "requests for financial, budgetary or tax-related information". Special rapporteurs who may find it useful to ask questions that are broader than what is permitted by this paragraph should not be replaced, nor should they limit Parliament's powers of control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u429	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u430	Unfavorable opinion. Compared to the original text, the Special Commission expanded the scope of the questionnaires by referring to financial or tax expenditure information. We must take into account the comprehensive agreement reached with the Government on this subject: on the one hand, we narrow down the scope of the questionnaires a little, but on the other hand, it becomes possible to send them more often, over the water. Indeed, we are following the logic I have already described: the special rapporteurs will have more reflex to evaluate public policies almost in real time. The Special Rapporteurs are also finance commissioners to take a consistent approach to the evaluation of public policies already carried out in the framework of the Spring Evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u431	The rapporteur's amendment No 47 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u432	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u433	This is the amendment, announced during the general discussion, which is based on my request for room and on-the-spot checks as Special Rapporteur. Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, had given me access to the documents, and I thank him for that, but I hope that section 57 of the LOLF will apply directly, without the need for a minister's arbitration. The purpose of this appeal amendment is to insert in the second paragraph of Article 57 of the LOLF the following words: "any document reflecting decisions implemented or feasibility studies, any note to the Ministers as well as".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u434	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u435	As you say yourself, Article 57 already allows everything you ask for. In practice, however, some resistance can be encountered when accessing information. From a legal and normative point of view, I do not believe that there is a need to change things – you too will agree. Your misappropriation, if I may say so, shows, however, that it is always necessary to reaffirm the rights and duties of the special rapporteurs when carrying out their monitoring tasks. All available information must be accessible to them as part of what the LOLF authorizes without the need to go through a minister. You're right to call him back. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u436	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u437	Without commenting on the present case, I would like to point out that the law in force allows special rapporteurs to have "all the financial and administrative information and documents they request", which already covers a very broad field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u438	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u439	Currently, only the Chairman and the rapporteur-general of the Finance Committee are able to access confidential tax information. The amendment seeks to ensure that the same applies to special rapporteurs in the context of their special report – for example with regard to tax expenditure related to their area of competence. Contrary to what has been reported in the Special Commission, special rapporteurs have already been put in difficulty and unable to carry out their missions because of the practical limitations they still encounter. The MILOLF report states in 2019, page 142, that "when she was rapporteur of the research mission, Ms Amélie de Montchalin [now minister] was denied the transmission by the tax administration of certain information on the research tax credit". The current practice therefore severely limits the powers of parliamentarians in the exercise of their functions. The amendment incorporates proposal No 39 of the MILOLF report. A refusal must not be able to be opposed to a special rapporteur – the amendment refers only to special rapporteurs – when working in his field of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u440	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u441	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u442	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u443	Pursuant to Article 57 of the LOLF, tax secrecy is not one of the secrets to which it is not possible to derogate. In the current state of law, this secrecy is therefore lifted for the benefit of the committee chairmen concerned, the general rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs. As far as the latter are concerned, unlike the Presidents and the Rapporteurs-General, the scope of their investigations is necessarily limited by the scope of their tasks. Tax secrecy is therefore lifted provided that the requested document falls within the scope of the mission for which the Special Rapporteur has been mandated. Therefore, if tax secrecy may have been, in some cases, opposed to special rapporteurs – I think this was what happened for Amélie de Montchalin – it was only because their request exceeded the scope of their mission. In these circumstances, the introduction of the proposed provision does not appear necessary since tax secrecy is already lifted within the limits that have been recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u444	The president of the special committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u445	It will be necessary to check, but I believe that special rapporteurs do not have access to personal data when anonymity is lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u446	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u447	I may be wrong, but it seems to me that they have access to aggregated general data.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u448	No! No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u449	When you start quoting the names of individuals or businesses that benefit from such a tax niche, things are a little different: you are at the heart of tax secrecy. I believe that Mrs de Monchalin had asked the rapporteur-general, who has the power to act on this matter, to obtain the information. In my view, this is not the case, because we are talking about extremely sensitive data that may call into question some people. That is why only the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance have a power that they can use to assist the special rapporteurs who appeal to them in the committee. That's, anyway, how I see things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u450	That's not what's written in the LOLF!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u451	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u452	I have a disagreement with the Chairman of the Special Committee, who also chairs our Committee on Finance, and I therefore read out the paragraph of Rule 57 of the LOLF which concerns, in particular, the special rapporteurs: "All the financial and administrative information and documents which they request, including any report drawn up by the bodies and departments responsible for the control of the administration, reserved for matters of a secret nature concerning the national defence and the internal or external security of the State and respect for the secrecy of the investigation and medical secrecy, must be provided to them. » In other words, only three arguments can be opposed to the Special Rapporteurs: defence secrecy and internal security, secrecy of investigation and medical secrecy. Tax secrecy is not mentioned, Mr President of the Finance Committee. I am thinking of Christine Pires Beaune, Special Rapporteur of the Mission Reimbursements and Discounts. It must have access to information relating to inevitable disputes between the State and certain companies, in particular where very high amounts are involved, without prejudice to tax secrecy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u453	There's no subject, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u454	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u455	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u456	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u457	I'm here to confirm Valérie Rabault's reading. Tax secrecy is not enforceable against special rapporteurs. To go back to the example you have cited, which I do not have entirely in mind and for which we do not have a precise history, it seems a bit surprising that Amélie de Montchalin did not have access to information about the research tax credit when she was Special Rapporteur of the Research and Higher Education mission. We will try to find out a little more precisely what happened at that time – a somewhat too narrow reading of the field of the mission may have been done. However, in any event, I would like to assure Mr de Courson that the Special Rapporteur cannot be denied tax secrecy if the information requested falls within the scope of his mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u458	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor for a very brief statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u459	I want to thank the Secretary of State, whose point of view corresponds to the one I am defending through my amendment. The chairman of the special committee and the rapporteur have a more restrictive reading on this subject, which is nevertheless exceptional. They argue that we do not have access to individual information.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u460	We're not defending a thesis! That's the information we have!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u461	But you confirm the opposite, Secretary of State, and I agree with you. We can vote on my amendment because it is in line with your statement, which, moreover, will satisfy Mrs Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u462	Yes, I am very pleased with the reply of the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u463	However, I can also withdraw it because your word is binding on the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u464	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u465	I think I've made it very clear. I confirm Mrs Rabault's reading and therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u466	The rapporteur's amendment No 48 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u467	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-19-E1011.u468	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for an organic law on the modernization of public financial management; Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for a law on the High Council for Public Finance and on the information of the Parliament on public finances; Further discussion of the proposed organic law and the proposed law on social security financing laws. The meeting is adjourned.
