ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u1	The Speaker of the National Assembly received a letter from Olivier Gaillard, Member of Parliament for the fifth riding of the Gard, informing him that he was resigning his term as a Member of Parliament as of Saturday, June 26, 2021. By a communication dated Monday 14 June 2021, the Minister of the Interior informed the President that Olivier Gaillard was replaced until the National Assembly was renewed by Catherine Daufès-Roux, who was elected together with him for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u2	The next item is the re-reading of the draft law on the promotion of respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism (No. 4078, 4239). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the twenty-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u3	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u4	Almost six months ago, to the day, the Special Committee of the National Assembly began its consideration of this bill, which, from the beginning, intends to be a balanced text, deeply republican, of great evidence but at the same time of an unprecedented ambition: in the field of public service, when it affirms that neutrality and secularism must apply to public service delegates, but also in the field of accompanying the community world, when it prohibits the public financing of structures or bodies that reject our values or when it gives the State, under the close control of the judge of freedoms, more effective means to put an end to associative activities that seriously threaten public peace. This text, which you have enriched, contains significant advances for human dignity and for equality between women and men: it banishes practices that we are all shocked to have to grasp, as they run counter to what constitutes our common vision of the human person. It illustrates our relentless fight against hate speech and acts by introducing new necessary and strong provisions. He affirms that the State is attentive to the educational structures and personnel that teach our children, in order to ensure that education never serves as a Trojan horse for a separatist project, of any obedience that comes from it. Finally, it recalls that this freedom, so essential as freedom of worship, must always be exercised in the rule of law of the Republic and must be in a framework in which guarantees and benefits are harmoniously balanced. This text is very obvious but at the same time of an unprecedented ambition, because no one had dared to say with such force the scope of the principles of neutrality and secularism, including in local authorities, with secular referencing. We strongly reaffirmed that it is not possible to threaten officials in order to make the public service comply with community requirements. We demand the financial transparency of associations, to which we collectively spend billions of tax expenditures each year. We also go far in protecting people from faceless hatred that we encounter on the Internet. No one had so clearly affirmed the need for respect for the rules of the Republic by all and everywhere. No text had so far had the audacity to change the 1905 law while remaining deeply faithful to the spirit and will of its editors. No text had been able to reconcile the uniqueness of worship with the necessary adaptation of this framework to the reality of French society in the twenty-first century. To achieve this result, more than two years of collective work have been required. This text, which is intended to give our democratic freedoms new protections, has been the subject of consultation with associations, religious representatives, health professionals, the press, representatives of sports movements and local elected representatives, and with all major political families. He's been put ten times, a hundred times on the job. Today, therefore, it is a balanced text which unites, as I said, evidence and ambition. While it has evolved a great deal, thanks to the involvement of the rapporteurs, whom I would like to welcome here, in the work of your committee and in the debates in the Chamber, it has emerged from your assembly largely faithful to this initial balance and ambition. On the other hand, we believe that this text cannot and should not serve as a receptacle for political or unnecessarily vexatious and cleavageful measures. We do not want vague or incantatory measures, measures contrary to our constitutional and treaty rules, or patchwork measures that are too far from the purpose of this bill: the fight against separatism and respect for the principles of the Republic. For this reason, the Government has defended in committee and will defend in the Chamber this week its position during the first reading and before both chambers. Thus, together with the rapporteurs and the majority, whose involvement I welcome, we have retained and valued all the Senate contributions that we felt were in the direction of improving the text. We have also gone back to the additions of the High Assembly which seemed to us to be contrary to the spirit of balance which we wished to favour, either because they go, in our humble opinion, in excess, like the provisions against the veil in public space or the electoral provisions, or because they dilute the text – I think, for example, the provisions on cults. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is therefore in this spirit that the Government will participate, today and throughout this week, in your work. The Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, and I, as well as the other members of the executive, are certain that it is in this spirit of responsibility and republican union that we will conduct this second reading together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u5	I call Mr Florent Boudié, rapporteur-general of the Special Committee and rapporteur for Chapter I of Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u6	It is regrettable that the National Assembly and the Senate were unable to agree on such an important text for our society, for our Republic. Respect for republican principles must be reinforced and separatist drifts fought, wherever they occur: in public services, in the networking of our associations, in schools or on the Internet. This calls for firm reforms, but also – that is our goal – balanced. The special committee met from 7 to 9 June to discuss the 129 articles of the bill that remain under discussion. The debate in committee lasted almost 15 hours, during which 766 amendments were discussed, of which no less than 323 were adopted. The intransigence of the Senate on several issues has forced us to remove a number of provisions from the text. Of course, I am thinking of all those who carried, without saying it, when in reality it was the objective, on the question of the veil, which constituted, as I had the opportunity to say in a special committee a few days ago, a sort of pathological obsession which we denounced. I am also thinking of the supervision of family education: the system of declaration proposed by the Senate seems less robust than the system of prior authorization voted by the National Assembly, the commission has chosen to restore it. However, the commission did not sweep all the contributions of the Senate with a backhand. We have taken up many of the proposals made by senators when they appear to us to be relevant and balanced. Thus, of the fifty-six articles added by the Senate, seventeen were either wholly or partially retained. There are many points of agreement between our two assemblies. The Senate adopted eighteen compliant articles and confirmed the deletion of section 32; It has validated many provisions, such as the strengthening of tax controls on associations, the tightening of administrative and accounting obligations of cult associations and the control of foreign financing received by cults, associations and endowment funds. Compromise solutions were found in several cases. The wording of Article 6 concerning the creation of the Republican contract of engagement is not changed or only at the margin. Similarly, the chapter on combating online hatred shows many points of convergence between our two assemblies. In addition, senators have adopted several provisions that improve or supplement the drafting of the text, which the commission has chosen to retain. I will, of course, let the thematic rapporteurs present these provisions in the parts that concern them. With regard to the articles relating to worship that I refer specifically to, the Senate has validated the principle of the "anti-putsch" system provided for in section 26. We have also retained Article 27 bis, introduced by the Senate, which provides for a mechanism of prior information to the Prefect by the territorial authorities when they consider granting an emhytotic administrative lease or guaranteeing a loan to build a church building. This is a good balance between state control and the free administration of communities. On the other hand, the special commission re-established the declarative procedure for the renewal of the recognition of the cultural quality of associations, to which the Senate had substituted simple information. We thus allow effective and regular control while keeping the cultural associations in mind. Article 27, which is referred to, in no way – we will have the opportunity to talk about it again – constitutes a form of recognition, larva or hidden, of cults by the State. Finally, in section 28, we have re-established the cap on the resources that cultural associations can draw from so-called reporting buildings that will not exceed 50% of their total annual resources. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is now up to us to complete the work that has already been going on for many months – almost six months for the first hearings conducted by the special commission – by fighting all separatist drifts firmly, but also, I repeat, with the cold determination of the Republic and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u7	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter I of Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u8	As the rapporteur-general has just pointed out, the bill we are considering is a balanced text whose aim is to give both public authorities and civil society the legal tools to combat the practice of community withdrawal, while at the same time preventing the stigmatization of a religious community that is permanently established in our country. I hope that these provisions, when they come into force, will reduce the Community's fallback. But we must be lucid, the situation has deteriorated significantly in France. It is enough to cross certain neighbourhoods to see how much, over the years, communalism has progressed. Chapter I of the bill, of which I am the thematic rapporteur, introduces important reforms in the organization of the public service: the extension of the principles of neutrality and secularism to the delegates of public services, the strengthening of the automated national judicial register of perpetrators of terrorist offences, FIJAIT, and the creation of a separatism offence that aims to protect public officials from intimidation of individuals wishing to evade the requirements of the common law. All these provisions are in the right direction; They are, in principle, the subject of a broad consensus. But there are less consensual subjects. Much was said about school assistants at first reading, in the Senate and in committee when the text was being reread. I have not changed my mind on this point, either apparently more than the Government and the majority; I won't come back. In my speech in the Chamber at first reading, I referred, as an illustration, to the case of the assessors of polling stations who could be occasional and voluntary collaborators of the public service bound to the obligation of political and religious neutrality. The Minister of the Interior had answered me, without really taking my conviction. But on June 20, during the first round of the regional elections in Île-de-France, we discovered with seizing that a veiled woman could be an assessor of a polling station in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u9	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u10	The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group has tabled an amendment requiring the mayor and municipal elected representatives to ensure that participants in the voting process respect the principles of neutrality and secularism. This is an excellent reaction; I hope that this amendment will be adopted. However, I remain convinced that a general provision setting out the obligations of all persons participating, even occasionally and even on a voluntary basis, in the performance of the public service would be preferable to scattered provisions contained in different codes and laws concerning these various categories of collaborators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u11	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u12	[[Isabelle Florennes applauds]] The fundamental principles of the Republic, as well as those of secularism and neutrality of the public service, should be stated in a clear, general and concise manner. Exceptions, regardless of the political justification or opportunity, weaken the scope of the exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u13	Mr Eric Poulliat, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter II of Title I, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u14	Georges Bernanos was not mistaken: it was above all the citizen who made the Republic. To get involved in an association, to animate its activities, is to make live a part of universal, a part of republic. This is what nearly 21 million French members of an association do; I want to thank them here. The essential role of the associations today makes it a target of the separatists, who do not hesitate to divert them from their objects for political purposes. More than ever, it is important to reinforce the respect of republican principles in the field of associations. This is the objective of Chapter II of the text, which has been the subject of rich debates in the Assembly and the Senate. The text we will be debating in the next few hours is, I am sure, a balanced text. Articles 6 and 7 allow, as I recall, the creation of a republican contract of engagement, the first and only tool to withdraw a grant or a licence to any association whose action would run counter to republican principles. This innovative and fully useful provision will provide the State and local and regional authorities with a new means of action. We chose to retain several elements of the Senate's drafting, which we found useful in clarifying the text. The content of the contract of engagement, which will also be specified by decree, is one of the elements of consensus that emerged during the parliamentary shuttle. This is different from Article 8, which modernises and complements the regime for the dissolution of associations defined by the Internal Security Code. The drafting that came out of the Senate has several limitations and we have evolved it into a special commission. The Commission has reintroduced discrimination on the basis of gender identity as one of the grounds for a dissolution order, and I welcome this. It has also reinstated the duration of the suspension measure applicable to an association subject to a dissolution procedure, which was adopted by our Assembly at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly have a rich exchange on the grounds of dissolution, introduced by the Senate and deleted by our committee, concerning the fact that we are barring a person or a group of people from attending a meeting. If I understand the importance of this debate in our society, the legal solution chosen by the upper chamber was not satisfactory in that it could create many important effects which must be avoided. With regard to the second block, relating to the financing of associations and non-profit organizations, the Senate's amendments only reinforces the idea that public money should not finance separatist activities or contrary to the principles of the Republic. In section 9, the special commission amended only marginally the Senate's additions. Now, when an endowment fund refuses to submit its management documents to the prefect, the prefect may not only suspend its activities, but may also request its dissolution from the judge. In clause 11, our disagreement with the Senate relates to the effective date of the reporting obligation imposed on organizations receiving donations. I want to clarify: the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP) has personally assured me that it would be able to operate the system by 2022. The obligation will therefore apply to donations received in 2021. In section 12, the Special Commission removed the addition of the Senate, which required the same DGFIP to notify the agencies of the suspension of their tax benefits. Indeed, it is not desirable to make the enforcement of a judicial decision conditional on the enactment of an administrative act. Finally, with regard to Articles 12 bis and 12 ter on the control of foreign financing of associations and endowment funds, the Special Committee has validated the changes made by the Senate to the mechanism adopted at my initiative, which is simplified and more effective. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, our associations help to make the republican promise concrete by encouraging the emancipation of everyone and protecting the most fragile. They are a vector of social and territorial cohesion and are now the target of separatists. To do nothing in the face of this threat is to make sure that tomorrow these essential actors gradually transform into Trojan horses of separatism. We can't solve this, unless we see our entire republican model tipping over. Defending associations, enabling the state and communities to fight separatist projects is defending the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u15	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter III of Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u16	Chapter III of the text on respect for the principles of the Republic deals with respect for persons and equality between women and men. Articles 13 to 17 provide for the protection of reserve heirs, the strengthening of the fight against polygamy in the context of the issuance and renewal of residence permits, the prohibition of the establishment of virginity certificates and the fight against forced and fraudulent marriages. Section 15 to limit the benefit of a survivor's pension to a single surviving spouse in the event of polygamy is the only one that has been passed into law by the Senate: I will propose that you do the same. Because it appears necessary to strengthen the protection of heirs, in particular heirs, Article 13 on the hereditary reserve, deleted by the Senate, was re-established in committee in its original wording. This article complements inheritance rules in order to put an end to discriminatory situations, most often to the detriment of women. It offers additional protection to legal heirs, thus reaffirming our commitment to equality between women and men. The provisions of this chapter reinforce the fight against polygamy. Article 14 introduces into the Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum a general reserve of polygamy which prevents the issue and renewal of any residence permit. This measure is intended to help prefectural services detect polygamous families and contribute to the fight against family immigration fraud. The Senate has removed the individual examination of the situation of the spouse who has suffered from polygamy. We reinstated it in committee. This will enable special attention to be paid to the situation of women victims of polygamy and support them towards self-reliance. Article 14 bis providing for the principle of automatic residence permits for victims of polygamy was abolished by the Senate and reinstated in committee. We have removed article 14 bis A, which increased the amount of punishment for polygamy in a disproportionate manner, but we have maintained 14 bis AA, which adds the rejection of republican principles to reservations to the issue of residence permits. With regard to Article 15a, which provided for reporting to the Public Prosecutor's Office of situations of polygamy by the Family Allowance Fund (FAC), it was deleted in committee on my proposal since it is already satisfied by the agreement on objectives and management concluded between the CAF and the State. The legislator's desire to protect women and their rights is reflected in this text by the reaffirmation of our total opposition to the issuance of virginity certificates. This practice runs counter to our principles and constitutes violence against women, which we cannot tolerate in our Republic. Article 16 therefore seeks to prohibit all health professionals from issuing certificates attesting to the virginity of a person. The commission removed the Senate additions requiring the physician to inform the patient of the prohibition of virginity certificates, which is an integral part of their mission. We have maintained article 16 bis A, introduced by the Senate, which aggravates the penalties relating to the offence of inciting or coercing the excision of minors. Child-rearing is essential to combat discrimination and violence against women. Articles 16 ter A and 16 ter B include sexual and gender-based violence and female genital mutilation in the awareness-raising programme for teachers and students. 16 ter A was retained by the Senate and 16 ter B was reinstated in committee in its initial drafting to enable the information of young people within the framework of the programme established by national education. With regard to article 16 ter, which creates an offence of incitement to the request for a certificate of virginity, the Senate proposed to increase the quantum of the sentence to two years' imprisonment: we wanted to restore the initial quantum of one year. The Senate also proposed that any examination to attest to a person's virginity be considered an offence. We integrate this addition by restoring a quantum of proportionate punishment. Article 17 is aimed at combating forced or fraudulent marriages. The 15-day period, during which the public prosecutor gives his consent to a marriage or not, has been reinstated and we remove the obligation added by the Senate to inform the spouses by e-mail. In addition, the proposal to create a database at national level listing all decisions on opposition or stay of marriage was deleted by the Commission, which considered the process too long and complex. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] These provisions reaffirm our republican principles in the interests of women. They will further protect their rights, encourage their autonomy, protect them from violence and thus strengthen equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u17	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter IV of Title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u18	The first time I spoke in this forum to present you with a bill to combat online hatred, I started my remarks by telling you that the text had in it the fight of a woman who could no longer be treated as a negress on social networks. This debate and this fight did not lead to unanimity between, on the one hand, those who welcomed a strong involvement in this fight against online hatred and, on the other hand, those who denounced or feared a rise in the power of a certain right of minorities, a society in which the protection of some would run counter to our fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, not to mention those who did not understand the stakes and reality of digital violence, thinking that it was enough to put their phone aside to escape it. These debates are only one or two years old, but I have the impression that they are from another time so much water has sank under bridges and so much suffering has gone up to the surface, a universal suffering that affects of course the most vulnerable people, targets of online hatred because of their so-called race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, but also everyone who will be sought to destabilize because of their convictions, uniform, function. Our country has paid a heavy price. These daily victims of online hatred, you know them: they are your daughters, your brothers and sisters, your neighbours at the level, this stranger crossed every day at the cafe opposite, your colleagues on the benches of this Chamber. Yes, digital violence affects us all, in one way or another. There is no drama in France today without questioning the responsibility of social networks. This awareness is there, it will not recede. It is one of the legacies that Samuel Paty leaves us but also Alisha, Toumani, Lilibelle, Marjorie, four teenagers who died this year as a result of drifts on social networks. In a recent interview that I believe has tested us all, young Mila told us that, beyond messages of support, she was asking for action. To act is what we are going to do today: to act through a fight against online hatred based on the triptych "penalize, regulate, prevent". Sanction, creating new offences such as the so-called "doxing" practice that cost Samuel Paty his life. We can't with impunity make someone a target on social networks. Nor can we divulge intimate photos of our young people to expose them to cyberharassment, force them to change institutions, move. In the face of these new practices and abuses, it is our responsibility to adapt our law to better arm our judges and give the platforms the legal basis to act. To punish is also to judge hatreds more quickly in immediate appearance. After all, why should they benefit from the protections of press law, even though they do not respect any of their obligations? Regulating is not about waging war on platforms, or asking them to take on their responsibilities: it is up to us to empower them, to ban them from now on from looking away, to force them to moderate with diligence and transparency. It is up to us to organise their supervision: this is the purpose of Article 19a, which anticipates the measures envisaged by the future Digital Services Act proposed by the European Commission. So here I want to send a message to the platforms: society has evolved, it no longer wants laissez-faire. These changes are felt all over the world. We do not want a Facebook Supreme Court, which would be above the state and could decide on the ability to express each other. Companies are not supranationals: they are multinationals, who must therefore apply the laws and ensure the protections imposed sovereignly and democratically by our States and legislators. Don't be late, stop this vain resistance: society is ready, and it asks you to protect its Internet users, no matter what. Finally, it is a matter of prevention – a particularly important point in this text aimed at protecting our republican principles. We know that radicalization has changed face and method: digital indoctrination is done insidiously and dangerously, without the knowledge, yet in view, of all. We must therefore better arm our young people against those who abuse their vulnerability on the Internet. In this regard, the Internet permit will be an effective tool for raising awareness and protecting our children. We hope that it will be deployed as soon as the coming school year reaches all primary schools and colleges in France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will conclude with thanks. I thank the ministers, first of all, who have given such a strong impetus to our fight, but also all the colleagues on all sides who have fed our thoughts and positions, particularly in the fight against online hatred. I thank, above all, all the associations that have been fighting tirelessly for many years. A new era is opening up to us: after the fantastic growth of social networks, after the uncontrolled explosion of hatred on these networks, has come the era of the protection of all and the end of impunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u19	Mrs Anne Brugnera, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapter V of Title I, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u20	We have met again for the consideration, after his passage to the Senate and then in a special committee in the National Assembly, of the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The Senate has made many amendments to the text, particularly chapter V, on education and sport.One of these changes was a red line for us: the denaturing of section 21, which provides for the introduction of a pre-family education authorization. This new procedure, conducted before the start of family education and allowing us to verify the reasons and means for it, seems to us to be a step forward. Prior authorization is such as to ensure a balance between, on the one hand, respect for the needs of certain children, who justify not attending school, and, on the other hand, the fight against abuses that may result from ill-performed family education and the preservation of children's fundamental rights, in particular their right to education. That is why, in the Special Committee, we have re-established Article 21 in the drafting of our first reading, which reflects all the progress on which we have reached an agreement, such as the amendment of the fourth ground of authorization for family education, the postponement of the entry into force of the new system, the establishment of transitional measures for families already engaged in family education, the establishment of an appeal unit in the event of refusal of authorisation and the possibility of issuing a multiannual authorisation for certain children. We have also retained the provisions that reflect our more comprehensive commitment to combat school avoidance, including the establishment of school avoidance prevention bodies and the allocation of the National Student Identifier (NEI) to children educated in the family – a measure that has been voted in conformity by the Senate, which shares our will. The re-establishment of article 21 has led us to delete articles 21 bis A to 21 bis I, which have become moot, with the exception of article 21 bis F. We have retained some of the amendments made by the Senate, which we felt were relevant and likely to be in the spirit of the text. I am thinking in particular of the possibility for the Prefect to oppose the opening of a private non-contracted educational institution on grounds relating to the defence of the fundamental interests of France, but also of the prohibition for persons definitively convicted of a terrorist offence to engage in family education. On the other hand, some of the Senate's additions seemed to us to be detrimental, and likely to compromise the balance of the bill. Some were even already satisfied with the text. We have already come back to certain additions to the special committee, particularly with regard to the provisions on higher education or the conditionality of family benefits. This will be discussed during the consideration of amendments to re-establish the relevant clauses in the Senate's version of the proceedings. I now turn to the provisions on sport provided for in Articles 25 et seq. The Special Committee has drawn up a version of Article 25 which I would call balanced, which incorporates some of the developments proposed by the Senate, in particular with regard to the arrangements for the accreditation of sports associations affiliated with a federation approved by the State. We will have the opportunity to debate this subject again, but, like the Senate, the special commission has advocated for the preservation of existing law: it is based on the accountability of federations, which will be reinforced by future delegation contracts. The extension of the system to the leagues created by the delegated federations is also a virtuous contribution of the Senate, which the commission has therefore retained. However, it has reviewed some of the changes made by the upper chamber which did not seem relevant to it, or which appeared to it to be detrimental to the role and place of the players in sport and its practitioners. The obligations of the recognised federations, which participate in the performance of a public service mission, are not the same as those of the participants in sports competitions, which can be assimilated to users – with the exception, of course, of the French teams, which are bound by neutrality. In addition, in order to ensure consistency of text, several additional articles adopted by the Senate were deleted in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, it is on the basis of a reworked wording, supplemented by some interesting provisions but removed from some others, deemed superfluous and, above all, already satisfied, that we will again consider Chapter V of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u21	I call Mr Sacha Houlié, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters II and III of Title II and for Titles III and IV.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u22	At first reading, we had preserved this text from the main pitfall in which the polemic hoped to see us lock it up: that of making it an instrument aimed at governing the souls and hearts of our fellow citizens, engulfing it with plethora of anticonstitutional display provisions and backwards of the ideal of the principles of the Republic. It is a diametrically opposite direction that our colleagues in the Senate right have taken, and that is why we need, from the special committee, to restore the precious balance between strengthening the prerogatives of the State in its fight against religious extremism, on the one hand, and preserving our fundamental freedoms, on the other. From the contributions of the Senate, the bill today only retains the strict necessary. He was rid of the excess, and he retained only what was right: that was the case for the part of which I was rapporteur, which dealt with the control of funding and the police of cults. In terms of funding, if we wanted to strengthen the administrative and accounting obligations of cultural associations, we should not forget that the effectiveness of the law is first and foremost ensured by its intelligibility and simplicity. We have therefore re-established a single threshold for triggering the obligation to certify accounts imposed on cultural associations receiving foreign funding. This mechanism will allow for the exclusion of small associations that receive only small foreign funding, and for which the certification requirement would have been too costly. We have also removed the obligation, for any project to construct a religious building by a religious association, to have the forecast financing plan certified by an auditor: indeed, it is not the function of the auditors to attest a priori the sincerity and compliance of financial data. It is because they intervene a posteriori that they do not have to carry out prior checking. However, we welcome the almost consistent adoption of an essential article, article 35 requiring the control of foreign funding received by cultural associations. And I say this to those who would be tempted to go further: barring cultural associations from foreign financing would cause a disproportionate damage to the freedoms of association and worship, as well as to the free movement of capital. As the administrative police must be strictly necessary and proportionate, I will defend the maintenance of the existing provisions, which are both effective and balanced. Finally, we also removed the ban on cash donations to cultural associations. This provision constituted an unjustified infringement of freedom of association, and it would have been impossible to monitor its proper application. This was also contrary to the spirit of the bill, which, I would remind you, is intended to ensure the attractiveness of the 1905 system for cultural associations. Remains the police of the cults, the heritage of the architects of our Republic, those who were aware that the preservation of public order was the only possible limit to the freedom to believe or not to believe, to practise his worship and to manifest religious opinions; those who knew that the legislator's role was primarily to protect freedom of worship and punish only abuses of it. In this spirit, the Special Commission was forced to rewrite the articles that provided for the prohibition of directing a religious association in the event of a conviction for terrorism and the temporary administrative closure of places of worship, based on the model of the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism (SILT) and the law of 1905. Indeed, the changes made by senators were neither strictly necessary nor proportionate. I would also like to say to you right now that most of the amendments tabled on these articles for the new reading present the same pitfalls. It is again in the name of respect for the principle of proportionality that we have removed the Senate's additions to the articles strengthening sanctions for violations of the cult police. It is for this reason that in section 40, which deals with the prohibition of political meetings and voting in places of worship, we had to remove the additional penalty of ineligibility added to the Senate and which, from a legal point of view, weakened the entire article. We also wanted the responsibility of ministers of worship to be strengthened. Thus, as our illustrious predecessors of 1905 wished, we believe that the particular influence exerted on the faithful by ministers of worship in places of worship justifies special treatment. This is the objective of Article 39 which provides, where appropriate, for specific and aggravated sanctions. Most of the substantive amendments that I tabled in a new reading have been adopted in committee, but I remain committed to the fact that several articles, which I believe represent legislative riders, are at least displaced. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I hope that this law is truly useful to our country, that it can be perceived by the French of all faiths for what it is – a tool for the protection of the Republic – and not for what some would like to do with it: a weapon against some of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u23	Mr François de Rugy, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u24	At first reading, more than a hundred hours had been devoted by our committee to the examination of this text, more than fifty of which were dedicated to hearings. These, I believe, allowed everyone to clarify their vision of the text and the issues that they raise – questions of principle, as the title of the bill points out, but also very concrete questions, because it is a matter of translating into our law the principles of the Republic, while taking into account the evolution of our country. The new reading in the special committee was, of course, faster – not just because we dealt directly with the articles and amendments. I believe that in the course of the legislative process of this text, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, everyone has been able to express, in the serenity and firmness of their convictions, their vision and proposals. Thus, today, after the re-establishment in committee of the main balances that we had achieved at the end of the first reading in the National Assembly – which had indeed evolved from the original version of the text – there is little new to expect from the exchanges that we will have in the next sittings. This bill is justified by the threat posed to our society by radical Islamism, embodied in two abuses as unacceptable as each other. On the one hand, separatism aims to divide the national community so as to create within it a kind of counter-society whose members would escape the common rule; On the other hand, proselyte absolutism intends to subject this common rule to religious dogmas. However, if this text is part of a context, that of this threat that we all hope will be circumscribed in time, it is intended to create intangible rules, which can be used tomorrow to remove other dangers that are emerging in society, or which we cannot even imagine today. That is why he is pleased that he is enacting provisions of a general nature. The Act of 9 December 1905 concerning the separation of churches and the State does not specifically deal with the Catholic religion, even though it was justified by the question of the relationship between it and the French Republic; Similarly, this text does not refer to Islamism, contrary to the more than imperative desire of the majority of senators. The Republic guarantees freedom of conscience and freedom of worship. It protects and protects itself from temptations, from attempts. The rights and duties it determines apply to all beliefs; its mechanisms of protection play against all forms of pressure, proselytism, separatism – recognize that there are all kinds of mechanisms in today's French society. Neutrality of public service employees, including those provided by private companies or employees; new means at the disposal of the State and local authorities to ensure respect for republican values by subsidized associations; fight against online hatred: the text deals with very concrete subjects, which go far beyond the challenge of Islamism in the Republic. This demonstrates that it is the republican principles that we want to uphold. In the course of our discussions, we have seen some strong points of convergence between ourselves: it is a good thing, because it is essential that the defence of the principles of the Republic should bring together widely. We have seen differences of approach or even divergences: it is also a good thing, since they are expressed without outrage or acrimony, without bad faith or willingness to maintain discourses of victimization that unnecessarily break our society. The Republic is also a place of peaceful confrontation between diverse visions of the public interest. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Isabelle Florennes also applauds]] The re-reading of this text in session, which begins today, is only a step in the development of the future law, but also in a broader reflection and legislative work, beginning in 1905. These lead us to clarify and complement our arrangements in the light of the evolution of society and the challenges it faces – arrangements that will remain after the promulgation of this text, and after us. Secularism is a never-ending, regularly attacked quest, always to defend and redefine in fidelity to the values that inspire it and animate most of us. I hope that this step, like the previous one, that is, the examination of the bill in a special committee, will be achieved in the clarity of our positions, in the serenity of the exchanges and in the respect of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u25	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u26	How noble, praiseworthy and extremely important it is to want to uphold the principles of the Republic! That ambition must be welcomed. The young woman I am elected is proud of that, as we can all be in this House. Except perhaps at the ends of the political spectrum, it should unite us, because the republican promise and its founding principles soothe, unite and unite. It is therefore not a question of stigmatizing a part of our fellow citizens by assimilating them to the opponents of the Republic, nor of threatening, restricting or opposing fundamental freedoms between them. I repeat, the Republic represents a promise of cohesion, emancipation, justice and solidarity; a promise of unity for our children, who are also his, and who, through her, can hope. The republican promise lies in the fact that our society must allow each of them to find its place, whatever the conditions of his departure in life. This society, it is the republican principles – freedom, equality, fraternity – that cement it; By what it is, what it promotes, what it embodies, it is the Republic that allows us to "make society" together. It considers each individual as a pillar of what is common to us, rather than reducing it to its lowest denominator. I find it difficult to find this vision of the Republic in the bill, for reasons as varied as they are essential, since they relate to these republican principles and the freedoms they guarantee. We are about to consider a text that punishes, compels and stigmatizes. You may have noticed this: one third of its articles are aimed at establishing control procedures and more than a quarter are aimed at defining prison sentences. It is therefore far from asserting the cohesion and strength that should characterize the Republic instead of closure and authoritarianism. Do you think we will strengthen membership by reprimanding? Do you think secularism is about targeting religion, rather than fundamentalism and fanaticism? This text confuses everything; And secularism is clarity. It is at the same time freedom and coercion, possibility of having its own belief, categorical refusal of any ascendant exercised by a religion over the State. Fundamentalism and fanaticism are for their part the obverse and the reverse of the same coin: religious radicalism, which strives to destroy our bond, which allows us to make society, in other words, the Republic. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: do you think that sanctions are sufficient for our fight against hate preachers? The Republic grows up, each with a view to fulfilling its promise. It must be firm in the face of these individuals: no complacency is necessary, on the contrary. On the other hand, he must convince all those who might turn away from them. The secular struggle goes hand in hand with the social struggle; the prosperous fanaticism where the Republic fails, and this failure is collective. Adherence to republican principles is achieved by addressing the causes of misdemeanour, not only by punishing its consequences. How can you consider reaffirming the principles of the Republic without mentioning social mix or showing your will to combat discrimination – sexism, racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia? How can you not mention in this text the strengthening of public services, the politics of the city, the territories abandoned by your fault, the issues related to housing, education and health whose meshes are so unequal in our country? In this sense, the ambition of the bill is somewhat limited to itself. We must promote the highest vision of the Republic, fight against its rejection and within it. This is the fight that the Socialist and related group is waging unrelentingly. The second argument by which I will justify this motion of rejection is of a legal nature. We have decided to file an appeal with the Constitutional Council. Although this one is holding back the reforms that you are aiming for, you continue to attack the principles that it provides for protection: I usually appreciate perseverance, but yours scares me, as it opposes our fundamental values. I would therefore like to remind you of the caution expressed by the Council of State in its opinion on the bill, whose provisions "apply to virtually all constitutionally and conventionally guaranteed public rights and freedoms, and to the most eminent of them." After the freedom of the press, would you have decided to attack the freedom of association? The text was a real threat in that regard. In its decision of 20 May 2011, the Constitutional Council recalls the need for any infringement of the exercise of fundamental freedom to be necessary, adapted and proportionate to the objective pursued. But this future law will weaken the system of protection of one of the most essential freedoms of our democracy, which increases my fears about the motives behind it. The associations in this country deserve better than the suspicion that will now weigh on them! Their very nature will make them suspect that they are the instrument of separatists; They will therefore have to declare their adherence to the principles of the Republic, or they will lose their subsidies. As if we were not all subject to these principles!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u27	Not everyone respects them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u28	The provisions provided for in Article 6 are not necessary, since rules already exist in this area. The Council of State has warned you in its opinion: "According to consistent case law, public authorities can only legally subsidize activities of public interest. This condition is not fulfilled if the action of the association is incompatible with fundamental principles of the legal order or even the essential values of society, such as those which the Republican contract of engagement aims to recall. » Moreover, these provisions are no more appropriate: they threaten the independence of associations by making them subject to arbitrary interpretations, by national or local authorities, of the values contained in the Republican contract of engagement. But time is not far from the last fears caused by the electoral scores of parties whose vision remains totally alien to ours: what use would these elected officials make of the device you want to introduce? Article 6 therefore places associations in a situation of legal insecurity, which is largely incompatible with the regime protecting freedom of association. Finally, the scheme is not proportionate to the objective pursued, since the obligations and constraints resulting from it will be imposed on all subsidized associations, without distinction. Again, article 6 therefore poses a problem with regard to freedom of association, one of the foundations of the Republic. In case you have forgotten this, I would like to remind you of the fundamental, major, structural role played by the associations, the volunteers who work there, the employees who work there, in many of our territories, as close as possible to the farthest. Article 8, which creates a new dissolution regime, also contributes to undermining freedom of association. It provides for the possibility of imputing to an association or a de facto grouping, with a view to dissolving it, the actions of its members and not only those of its leaders. This measure is severely criticized, in particular by the High Council for Associative Life (HCVA), since this again results in a situation of legal uncertainty. In the event of an emergency, the same article allows the suspension of the activities of the association or grouping as a precautionary measure. However, recent news shows that the existing instruments are already fulfilling their office: the Minister of the Interior has dissolved associations on the grounds that they violated the values and principles of the Republic. As in Article 6, these provisions are therefore neither necessary nor adapted nor proportionate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The legislative tools that you are proposing to us are worrying: they make existing arrangements more stringent, they give greater place to arbitrariness, they betray a form of inability to carry the Republic high – which, I repeat, does not suffer more authoritarianism or closure than complacency. Ladies and gentlemen, the urgency is to wage a secular struggle to bring about the triumph of republican values and principles; a social struggle, so that no one is excluded from the republican promise; a fight without weakness, so that those who preach fanaticism, fundamentalism and hatred may be punished. This text presents a shadow, a constitutional threat to freedom of association. That is why I call on you to adopt this motion for a preliminary rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u29	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, the Socialist and related groups, as well as the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, have submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u30	We shall vote against the motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by our colleague, first for a reason of form: we wish to move forward on this second reading as we did on first reading and in the special committee. We will debate and everyone will have the opportunity to express his or her opinion. In substance, this text must bring us together: it is important that republican principles bring us together beyond political and partisan divides. The French want us to show a sense of responsibility. This text seems to me to provide essential answers to reaffirm the republican principles. When disagreements arise – they are legitimate – they may be expressed in connection with the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u31	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u32	I listened carefully to our Socialist colleague in defence of the motion to reject it. Of course, we would have liked not to have had to legislate today or to have had to do so so many times during this and the previous Parliament. Alas, we are not in a world of Bisounours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u33	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u34	Radical Islam, Islamism, has killed nearly 270 of our compatriots and maimed thousands of families who will never recover. So, unfortunately, we are constantly forced to legislate. This bill is in the right direction even though, as our colleague Bournazel has said, the UDI-I Group will propose amendments to correct it and to go further. Overall, the Government has assumed its responsibilities. My only thoughts will be for the victims: for Samuel Paty's family, for the children of the police officer who was killed, for the children killed at close range. It is only to them that my thoughts go and it is them that we must have in mind during our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u35	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u36	Since a motion of rejection has been tabled, my intervention will be in this context and will replace the one provided for in the general discussion. In particular, I will speak on behalf of one of the members of our Freedom and Territory Group, that of the radicals of the left – this deeply secular and republican left centre whose historic struggle for the values of the Republic is no longer to be demonstrated and who is the heir of the great radical founders of the Third Republic. We wish to state our position on this text. This bill began with a symbol. In choosing the date of 9 December for its presentation in the Council of Ministers, the Government stated its willingness to follow the line of the church-state separation law of 1905. The reference was obvious. She wasn't to displease me, on the contrary. But playing on the analogy was also about taking the risk of comparison. We know that the 1905 law, adopted after intense debates that marked the history of this House, was in the end a very great law – probably the most beautiful of all – because, 115 years after its adoption, it remains a fundamental law as well as a founding law for our Republic. It is a law which, in the words of the Council of State, constitutes the "keystone of secularism", which in turn has become the keystone of our Republic. Secularity is indeed the soul and flame of the Republic, the magnificent trait of union between what is so precious to us: freedom, equality and fraternity. Freedom first, because secularism is the construction of the autonomy of personality and critical mind, especially at school, through the learning of school subjects and disciplines. It is also the remoteness of identity assignments. Finally, it is a precious right, particularly appreciated by children from countries where one is first defined by its origin and religion: secularism is also the right to be different from one's differences. Equality then, because secularism is the common belonging to the nation and the sharing of citizenship – its rights as well as its duties. Fraternity finally, for secularism requires that we focus on what brings us together rather than what separates us. Yes, secularism is a jewel of peace and harmony. She's not a sword, she's a shield. And since it protects us, we must also protect it. For at least 30 years, secularism has not been adequately defended and its defenders have not been heard enough. Perhaps the most worrying thing is that, often, the questioning of secularism in French takes the form of a frontal contestation less than that of a sneaky sweetening. Adjectives, some of which use the word "secularity" – open, inclusive, positive, etc. – are parasites which, like a tick, attach themselves to this substance only to better empty it from its substance. For years, accommodation, renunciation, small and great cowardice and voluntary blindness have accumulated, which were supposed to buy social peace. The result of this cowardly and blindly guilty person is now before us: it is the rise of communalism and separatism; the alarming rise of fundamentalists; the emergence, at the very heart of our national community, of genuine projects of fundamentalist counter-society. It is more than time to win back the ground lost by the Republic for years. Yet, you will tell me, everyone today proclaims himself republican, with a hand on his heart and a larmichette on his eye. The reality isn't exactly that. There are – forgive me for the expression – the false derches of the republican ideal, those who use great words and make beautiful statements but who, in practice, damage, weaken and flout its principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u37	Yes, we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u38	[[Anne-Christine Lang applauds]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Isabelle Florennes also applauded]] Can we pretend republican when we say that republican universalism is the falsification of racism, discrimination and Islamophobia? Can we pretend republican when we endorse the organization of so-called racialized meetings, i.e. forbidden to white people? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u39	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u40	Because how do you claim to be a republican, humanist and anti-racist by practicing racialism? Can we pretend republican when we make a common forum – in all senses of the word – with white collars of Islamism, which, for example, called for a simple moratorium on the stoning of women and not an immediate ban on this abomination? No! For how can we claim to be Republican, Progressive and Feminist by associating with these ideologues who regard women as inferior and who want to make them mute and invisible?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u41	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u42	[["Very good! » on several benches of the LT and LaREM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT and LaREM groups. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] Can we pretend to be a Republican when we consider that Muslims are indistinguishable in our country? No. Because how can we claim to be Republican and Patriotic when we deny everything that our fellow Muslims have brought and bring to France? North African tirailers who prayed to Allah between two assaults on Monte Cassino in 1944 fought for freedom and for the Republic. They were not in Vichy: they fought Nazism to liberate France. Yes, the Republic is frontally attacked by hate preachers, but they are unfortunately, it must be said, assisted by conscious or unconscious accomplices, those whom Lenin called useful idiots – in this case, here and now, useful idiots of Islamism. It is more than time to rebuild what our collective abandonments have damaged, cracked, fractured. It is more than time to state loudly what the republican project is and to mobilize our fellow citizens around the pillars that underpin it in order to fight against the temptation of withdrawal and rejection. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must have the courage today to fight against separatism but also against the intrusiveness of the enemies of the Republic, who preach hatred and promote a counter-society based on the total rejection of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights and of all our fundamental principles. The Republic is the democratic debate. Today, we want to debate this text so that it regains its original balance. We will not therefore vote on the motion to reject our socialist friends, but I have no doubt that, on every bench, there will be many of us defending what Victor Hugo said about the Republic: an idea, a principle, a right, "the very incarnation of progress". More than ever, ladies and gentlemen, live the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u43	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u44	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u45	I will go right to the point: this law does not defend the principles of the Republic, nor does it reinforce them. This law is not republican, because it is a law of discrimination and indexing of Muslims. As we begin its second reading, the majority is anxious to claim the opposite. What principles of the Republic would it strengthen? We do not know too much, because in reality the real objective and the concrete effect of this law are far removed from the Republic; I'll show you. First of all, it must be admitted that this law flows from the source in Macronia since it ends a nauseous but entirely coherent political cycle, in the direct continuity of the so-called laws of global security and the so-called fight against terrorism. Let us at least give him this poor merit of consistency, that of a law that follows perfectly President Macron's road map, the one he drew up more than a year ago. You know that very well because it was you, the majority, that he addressed when he invoked the Maurassian opposition between the legal country and the real country on 11 February 2020. In the name of this far-right concept, he had theorized in front of you the urgency of addressing the "sense of insecurity" and more specifically "the subject of immigration, the security of everyday life, the fight against separatism". In short, he wanted to turn the Assembly and the political debate around security and identity issues. It's done. It is a political strategy beast that allows to feed with one hand the National Rally and its friends so that they can present themselves, on the other, as its bulwark. The failure of regional elections for you – therefore for Emmanuel Macron – as for the National Rally marks the failure of this dangerous strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u46	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u47	This mechanism could be observed very clearly on this text: all the poles were strained by the majority to bring back the debate on the question of the veil. Unsurprisingly, this led the Senate to legislate on this subject so that the Government could then oppose, great prince, the most controversial additions. The clear and clear result of this strategy, which is totally attributable to the Government, is an "extreme right-wingization" of political debates, both in assemblies and in the media. Meanwhile, there is no room left to address people's concrete concerns: health, social, transportation. How can we then be surprised at the rates of abstention to the regional and departmental levels, when the debate has been saturated for months by your anxiety and out-of-ground absurdities and when we have talked about everything except, for example, the prerogatives of the regions and the departments? And how can we not worry about the overall political logic of this text? How can we not revolt against this little music that you orchestrate, in which every opposition, every speech a little dissonant of yours, every word that tries to bring you back to reason are threatened illico to be excluded from the political field and called anti-republicans? [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This is the central problem of this text. It claims a republic and secularism defined in a very risky manner and does not achieve any of the stated objectives. And because of it: it misses the most important separatism in our country, social separatism, that of the rich. To address this challenge and strengthen cohesion in our country, however, there are many useful measures to be taken. We spend our time reminding you, but there is nothing to do: still no restoration of the tax on wealth (ISF), still no maintenance of the housing tax for the 20% of the richest French, still nothing to fight against dividends and stock market dismissals, still nothing good for housing or public services. In short, you only treat the Republic as an empty envelope in which you only slip what interests you. Article after article, it is the same catastrophic pattern that reproduces: each time, you miss the subject. It could have been believed that at least in the area of secularism, which you have talked about so much, your text would allow for progress. In fact, none of your measures are in line with secular principles or only if one adheres to your strange definition borrowed from the far right that secularism would be to fight against a particular religion, a form of racism that does not say its name. On the other hand, you do nothing to establish the separation between the Church and the State, on the contrary. Despite our demands, you maintain the concordat regime in Alsace-Moselle and the status resulting from Charles X's order in French Guiana. Then – and this is a climax – your provisions on reportable assets create new income opportunities for the churches, while one of the fundamental principles of secularism is that worships should be financed strictly by their faithful and not by such commercial activities. Finally, instead of the State's duty of neutrality with regard to religions, you clearly show a will to organize Islam, whether it be through the statements of the President of the Republic on the establishment of a national council of imams or your "anti-putsch" mechanism of article 26 which, interfering in the statutes of cultural associations, would like to make Islam the only religion of democratic organization in that country, so you do not act in this direction for the functioning of other religions, which is normal since it is none of your business. And we find the same ritournelle for the other subjects. As far as the school is concerned, your great speeches hide measurements completely next to the plaque. You do not even attack out-of-contract schools, which nevertheless constitute the most important centres of separatism, perhaps because these separatisms are mainly at the service of retrograde and fundamentalist visions of other religions than Islam.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u48	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u49	You don't even require them to pass through permissions to open; simple statements are sufficient. You do nothing to limit the circumvention of the school card or to fight for social mix in school or to impose girls-boy mix everywhere. You are also doing nothing to put an end to school deserts while 500 French communes are so far deprived of school. If there's separatism, it's there. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] The only topic you choose to address is family education. Why not? We believe that it requires more checks and that serious investigations should be carried out into all students enrolled outside the public school environment – those who are at home, those who are in private schools, those who are no longer in school. In fact, it is not really the access to the knowledge and education of the children of our country that interests you, otherwise you would have addressed this issue in the framework of a great law to strengthen the public school, an anti-Blanquer law in a way, to restore the taste of most of the parents concerned to return their children to school. It would have been too beautiful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u50	What a scandal! It's shameful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u51	It will be up to us to take care of it in 2022. No, all this was just a bogus pretext – a choice that led you to tangle your brushes – to warn about cases of children living in so-called radicalised families. But as is the case in virtually all of this law, you have not been able to provide us with precise data on this phenomenon, to believe that you take very lightly all these very serious issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u52	You don't know anything about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u53	You do the same in dealing with terrorism: you take on the most serious theme that is and treat it intellectually and politically with disconcerting lightness and dramatic consequences for freedoms, which are nevertheless the target of the perpetrators of terrorist acts. In fact, in your impact assessment, you are theorizing that your measures are not actually aimed at terrorism, but at the "separatist ambitions" that would be its root. By improvising yourself sociologists of pacolette, you therefore allow yourself to extend, in Article 3, the rules of the FIJAIT to include other types of offences. At the same time, you are doing nothing to strengthen the platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding alerts (PHAROS) or the inter-ministerial mission of vigilance and combating sectarian drifts (MIVILUDES), or to increase the means dedicated to the fight against terrorism, in any case at the height of the danger it represents. On the other hand, as usual, you take advantage of it to nourish in peace a huge confusion by mixing coarsely secularism, Islam, radical Islamism and terrorism, suggesting that the same thread would connect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u54	You're the one who mixes everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u55	From this amalgam arises only the specter of discrimination: you suggest that the danger of proselytism would be such in our country that entire communities would be subject to the law not of the State but of religion, without proving, through an impact study, that it would be a reality to be combated by such a law. In doing so, you fall into the trap of those who use terrorism to divide the French and engage in a religious war. Moreover, with the same pretexts, you are attacking our fundamental freedoms and associative freedoms. These measures alerted the Conseil d'État, the Defender of Rights, many academics and of course associations as diverse and important as Anticor, Greenpeace, the Quadrature du Net or the Syndicat des avocats de France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u56	Give us Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u57	All these people are worried because of the suspicion that your pseudo-republican engagement contract puts on associations, which need more support than ever, and not new barriers. Above all, they are concerned about your catastrophic Article 8, which establishes the possibility of dissolving associations with disconcerting ease. They would be called to account and exposed to the risk of disappearing because of the actions of any individual who would claim it, even through Facebook post comments. But where are you going to look for such logic? Have we returned to the time of collective punishment? What remains of a republican and protector for our associations when an entire group can suffer from the crimes of a single individual even though it has neither motivated nor condoned them? For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, this bill not only leaves me skeptical but revolting. While some provisions may be considered positive, most of them are presented to us without having been subjected to the test of numbers and facts. You are driven by a morbid political will to use marginal facts to mure them into massive society that would deserve dozens of articles of law. Your approach is very clearly aimed at instilling in the minds the idea that Islamic fundamentalism would constitute in our country a ubiquitous phenomenon gangrenating all spheres of our society and waiting for everyone at the turn. In the meantime, nothing is being done to resolve the major problems of a material nature facing our fellow citizens. You want to sell them a law to strengthen the principles of the Republic, and these are not found in this law of liars. We have already seen that she had nothing to do with secularism, at least if we do not adhere to Mrs Le Pen's racist vision. It even breaks with the spirit of the 1905 law, to which we continue to refer. The French Republic is freedom, equality and fraternity. Does this law strengthen freedom? No, on the contrary, it is a liberticide law that gnaws our rights, little bit by bit. Does this law strengthen equality? No, it is a ground of discrimination that does not fight against the separatism of the rich and does not provide any social measures. Does this law at least strengthen fraternity? Nor, since it was thought and written to divide more and more. [[Mrs Anne-Christine Lang laughs]] In the name of freedom, equality and fraternity, the group La France insoubted, because it has the Republic in the body, will vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u58	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u59	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u60	I can only agree with our colleague from the Group of the European People's Party, who stresses that republican principles must bring us together. Accept, however, that there is a debate on the conditions to be applied so that these principles can be respected by all our compatriots. Of course, constraints and sanctions are necessary, and I believe that our intelligence services, our security forces, our justice system need means to combat all violence linked to fundamentalist separatist approaches. But in order for the principles of the Republic to be respected, it is also necessary to ensure that the Republic raises, guarantees rights to each and every one, ensures the exercise of freedoms, including freedom of expression, so that the debate is everywhere, in the education system and in society, so that the critical spirit develops and exchanges foster openness to the other. Yes, all this is necessary for the principles of the Republic to be known, respected and shared. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] As far as associations are concerned, let us take a good look at the role they play in our society: from decade to decade, they have dealt with subjects neglected by the Republic, by the State. They must be sent a strong message, a positive message about their action and the commitment of all their volunteers. However, this bill does not allow this to be done. That is why the Communist deputies will vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u61	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u62	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u63	I must say that I am doubly surprised that a motion to reject this bill is being tabled as we approach the phase of the new reading. Its adoption, which I do not wish to adopt, would simply mean that its discussion would stop. As the President of Rugy recalled earlier, the special committee devoted tens of hours to the hearings and examination of the text. No one then suggested that a rejection motion would be defended. At the very long first reading which took place in our House, different, if not diametrically opposed, points of view were expressed. This diversity was present in almost all of the groups in this assembly, including the main majority group. Then the text was discussed in the Senate: although I did not read all the transcripts of the debate, I do not believe that the group that initiated today's motion to reject it tabled one. And at the meetings of the special committee of our House that followed the first reading, not a single word about a rejection motion was said. Here we are gathered for this new reading and some people tell us that after hundreds of hours of discussion, dozens of amendments adopted, multiple exchanges of arguments, we should put our thumbs on. I have a second subject of astonishment, even though I have passed the age of naivety: why is the Socialist Group defending such a motion? Everyone remembers this, even if not everyone sat in this Chamber: it is the Socialist Party which, as the main government responsibilities in the previous quinquennium, had to face terrorism on several occasions. And that is what led him, here, to propose legislative measures to protect the French and France. He did so under courageous conditions, making decisions that could be the subject of sometimes terrible polemics, especially when these decisions called into question the very basis of France's identity. But he did! Of course, these measures may or may not have been fair, effective or ineffective, but, in the face of terrorism, the Socialist Group did not put forward a motion to reject them beforehand when it was in a position to exercise its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u64	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u65	If you don't see it, you must have had a very busy Sunday night! The report is that at the time the Socialist Group took on its responsibilities; Today, by tabling a motion of rejection, he does not do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u66	What about you? Today, you vote Pecress! You, too, have changed your mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u67	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We are told that there is no longer any justification for strengthening the rule of law and taking action, even though, if terrorism has changed its strategy, the offensive against the Republic has not weakened. We are told that this law is liberticide. Take the example of the Republican contract of engagement: when I was mayor of Évry, I had proposed the adoption of a charter of secularism and the signing of Republican contracts of engagement; that the law applies this provision throughout the national territory does not seem superfluous to me. Is there no need to protect the cults of separatist rule, which everyone knows exist? Is there no need to strengthen the protection of public services and their agents or to improve their training? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This motion of prior rejection is a sign of a lack of courage on the part of an essential component of our Republic, and I regret that. That is why I invite you to reject her.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u68	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u69	There is one point on which we agree with our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group, these are the concerns expressed by the associative world – we have all been the recipients of its messages. I would like to give you one, from an associative movement supported by the CCFD-Terre solidaire – the Catholic Committee against Hunger and for Development – a charitable association that fights against hunger in the world. Associations have often led to great republican and societal conquests in the fight against discrimination, women's rights, environmental protection, and sometimes against the public authorities. They owe this ability to mobilize and interrogate the law of 1 July 1901 on the contract of association and guaranteeing freedom of association, which was elevated to the rank of fundamental constitutional principle. That is why the draft law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, in particular the Republican contract of engagement provided for in article 6, raises a great deal of reservations and concerns, which have been expressed by the HCVA, by NGOs, by the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) or by the Defender of Rights. The Republican contract of engagement does indeed have virtues in the eyes of the associations whose harmful actions we want to limit, but it affects, by effect from the edge, the whole of the associative world. It seems to me that the Government would be well inspired to respond to these concerns, because our country also stands up thanks to its network of associations – those of us who are or have been local elected officials know this well: the number and vitality of associations are a sign of the good health of a territory. That is why we cannot ignore their concerns. In conclusion, we will not vote on the motion of rejection for various reasons: first, because our conception of secularism is not that of the left; Secondly, because we consider that a certain left has its share of responsibility in the fact that separatism thrives in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u70	A certain left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u71	It has for too long tolerated the drifts of separatism by being at best complacent, at worst, alas, sometimes complicit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u72	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u73	As we may say at the outset, our group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand, because we wish to debate again the text we have been waiting for for a long time, so much as we consider it urgent to act – we share Mrs Genevard's comments on this point. This text gives us an opportunity to do so. The fight for respect for the principles of the Republic needs means, which this bill will provide through the creation of the offence of separatism – in which my colleague Laurence Vichnievsky participated – or the prohibition of foreign interference in the construction of places of worship. But this fight also requires – this subject is of particular interest to us – republican cohesion, which this text promotes thanks to the creation of the Republican contract of engagement. Of course, and I share many points raised by our colleague Olivier Falorni, we are still concerned about a lot of matters; This text will not solve everything, but we believe that action is urgent and that we cannot, at this stage, dispense with it. Therefore, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u74	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u75	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 76 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 9 Against 67
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u76	In the general debate, Mrs Cécile Untermaier spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u77	We have come together to discuss the separatism bill again, with the feeling that everything has been said, but nothing has really been taken into account. As you have pointed out, rapporteur-general, there is not much to be expected of this last debate. I shall make three observations, starting with the necessary clarification of the principle of secularism, which this text intends to enforce in order to combat radical Islamism. We obviously agree with the objective – we have consistently said so. But we also called for verification of the effective implementation of the counter-terrorism mechanisms and the measures taken in the aftermath of the terrible attacks in 2015. It is surprising that in a text on republican principles, in particular secularism, no effort has been made in the impact assessment, in the explanatory statement or in the preamble to the bill to clarify what this principle covers. After decades of appeasement, religious issues have returned. The rise of radical Islam raises specific questions, which have little to do with religions and this principle of secularism which the Constitutional Council considers to be inherent in the constitutional identity of France. But you do not even explain this principle. However, this complex mission should not frighten you: we owe this effort of clarity to our fellow citizens, but also to the secular referents that you have decided to create and, more generally, to the French, who do not know how secularism translates into law and practice. And it is not this bill that will clarify this concept! However, in order to define the principle of secularism, it was sufficient to use the terms of article 1 of the 1905 law, which affirms freedom of conscience with, as a corollary, freedom of religion; It was sufficient to refer to article 2 concerning the separation of churches and the State, which translates into the neutrality of persons carrying out a public service mission, which has since been enshrined in the law of 20 April 2016. By a definition that we proposed to you, it was to bring together the elements of secularism, including the jurisprudence of the 2004 Constitutional Council, to help understand the law and apply it. We have missed this red thread throughout the debates and its absence undermines the intelligibility of the text. Was it so difficult to write, in this complicated period of confrontation, that the Republic ensured freedom of thought, conscience and religion by guaranteeing the right to manifest one's religious affiliation and absence, as well as, if necessary, to change one's religion? Was it so difficult to write that the Republic guaranteed a strict neutrality of the persons exercising a public service mission vis-à-vis the users and, vice versa, that it prohibited anyone from using their religious beliefs in order to free themselves from the common rules governing relations between public authorities and individuals? It is also essential to recall that the 1905 law provided for the condemnation of possible religious drifts, which would contravene the laws of the Republic. It provided for severe criminal punishment for any abuse committed in the name of religion. The benefits of the provisions in this text may or may not be shared. On the other hand, it is essential that we all know what we are talking about when we talk about the principle of secularism. In the second part of my speech, I would like to point out that there is a great deal of concern about some of the measures in the bill, both in terms of questioning the principle of secularism and in terms of the scope of fundamental freedoms. Like Jean Baubérot, we denounce a text that "asserts to strengthen secularism, while it undermines the separation of religions and the State". A much greater role is now given to the State in the organization of all religions and their practices. New constraints are imposed on the churches, which did not pose a problem, in order to try to have them admitted to a cult – the Muslim cult – whose representatives also agree on efforts to continue to ensure that their local and national leaders are better identified. Among these measures, we are concerned about the new constraints imposed on cultural associations and more broadly on the world of associations, on which we must not look naively, but rather benevolently, by supporting its actions. Certainly, not a euro must be attributed to an association that would represent a danger to the Republic – it is strange to have to specify it in a law! On the other hand, substantial funding should be earmarked for these associations, which operate in a wide range of fields and contribute to social cohesion. The wide-ranging control of associations can only discourage them, especially those which establish social ties in difficult neighbourhoods. All fear a poorly defined, misunderstood Republican contract of engagement which would become a tool of selection by the authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u79	The ability of associations to mobilize is immense and very rich: we should protect this French exception, at a time when associations are concerned about the mechanism provided for in the bill. A third issue concerns us, school. Of course, progress has been made in family education: the creation of a National Student Identifier (NEI), which must prevent any child from passing under the school's radars, is an excellent thing, as is the monitoring of family education. On the other hand, we consider that a reporting regime would have been sufficient, rather than an authorization regime that worries the proponents of this method of instruction. Nor do we understand that the opening of private non-contracted educational institutions is subject to a simple declaration: the best interests of the child would justify other ambitions and guarantees. We shall therefore table an amendment calling for prior checking, prior to the opening of such establishments. Finally, the main objective of social mix should apply to private education, which is known to accommodate, on average, half the number of pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds compared to public schools. In conclusion, and as many of the actors involved in its provisions have stated, the bill goes beyond its objectives, does not touch on the essence, and casts confusion as to our true enemies. On the one hand, there must be a distinction between religions, governed by a principle of secularism that protects the freedom to believe or not to believe, and, on the other hand, the harmful and deadly instrumentalization of religion by some. Whatever the usefulness of certain preventive or repressive measures, which we shall vote without difficulty, respect for republican principles requires the mobilization of all public authorities and policies, which must enter into cohesion in order to bring us together. This objective also requires the unwavering support of the public service and its agents, as well as a strong State that guarantees, through an unwavering organization, the major democratic moments in its history.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u80	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u81	On March 11, 1882, during a conference at the Sorbonne remained famous, historian Ernest Renan tried to answer the difficult question: "What is a nation? " "A nation," he told us, "is a soul, a spiritual principle. Two things that, to tell the truth, make up this soul, this spiritual principle. One is in the past, the other in the present. One is the common possession of a rich legacy of memories; the other is the current consent, the desire to live together, the desire to continue to assert the inheritance that we have received undivided. This definition of Renan brightly illuminates the purpose of this bill: to protect the principles of the Republic that structure our nation. It is a question of fostering the desire to live together, while giving the Republic the strength to defend itself against its enemies. The emergence of a "French archipelago" described by Jérôme Fourquet is worrying; It does not date from yesterday, or even the day before yesterday, but draws its roots from a multitude of small renunciations accumulated over the last thirty years. The challenge of repairing these flaws is immense, and only one law will not be enough. It is a collective challenge for the next ten or twenty years, which demands to go beyond political divides and to come together in the general interest. This is the challenge of a generation. Through this bill, the Government and the presidential majority pursue, with unwavering determination, the objective of bringing together and uniting around the unity of the Republic. In the heart of the Republic, there is secularism – precisely because secularism possesses this virtue that allows us to live together. Our vision of secularism is part of the philosophy of Aristide Briand, when he affirms that the 1905 law grants citizens full freedom to practice their worship, without any limit other than respect for public order. It asks to constantly practice the sense of balance, to have the courage of nuance and not to give in to the exacerbation of public debate. This effort, we collectively did during the first reading of the bill in session and the second reading in a special commission. After the Senate review, the three groups of the presidential majority worked constructively to restore the balance of the text. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the return of some articles to their original version, as they were debated and voted on by the Assembly – I am thinking in particular of the introduction of a citizenship day for children educated with families, and of the increased awareness among students of the proper use of digital tools and social networks. At the beginning of its second reading in the Chamber, the text seems to us to be balanced and concluded. It strengthens our legislative arsenal in order to combat all attempts at separatism, and enables the Republic to react within the framework of the rule of law. We will defend a single amendment, in common with the groups of the presidential majority, but also with the Republicans – this is to be emphasized, because it is a sign of responsibility: it aims to increase the penalty incurred in connection with the offence created by article 18, when the acts are committed to the detriment of a person who is particularly vulnerable because of his age, illness, disability, physical or mental disability, or a state of pregnancy. Its adoption will further protect the most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not agree on everything – that is very happy – but how can we not find ourselves on the essentials: strengthening the principles of the Republic? Let's go beyond partisan and sterile cleavages; in the diversity of our legitimate sensitivities, there are times when we must come together forcefully in the general interest. [[MM. François de Rugy, chairman of the special commission, and Guillaume Vuilletet applaud]] This text is not limited to a bill against the enemies of the Republic: it is part of a positive vision, tense towards the common that our nation wishes to produce; It embraces an open vision of society that rejects easy amalgams and obstacles to fundamental freedoms, and rejects any compromise with those who defy the Republic and its principles. Building on this positive vision of society, the Government and the majority have placed equality of opportunity at the heart of their reforms: for example, priority has been given to the acquisition of fundamentals at school, and the classes of CP and EC1 have been split into priority education areas, for those who initially have less social and cultural capital. That's what we've been doing for the past four years – as I said, it's the challenge of a generation. Our inclusive vision of society also makes civic service a tremendous lever to foster the commitment of all young people under the age of 25 to a mission of general interest. That is the realization of the respect for republican principles, which we have defended with force and conviction for the past four years. Our group is proud to support, within the framework of the presidential majority, a text of freedom, combat, protection and balance. The debate will now begin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u82	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u83	The text which we are about to examine has, after the failure of the Joint Committee, the same face as at first reading. The opinion of the IDU and independent group is therefore unchanged: we welcome this bill, through which the Government wishes to combat the communal enterrism that undermines the foundations of the Republic. I regret, however, that few important amendments were adopted by our House at first reading. I am thinking in particular of the proposals put forward by our group, such as the creation of a foundation for each cult, allowing foreign funds to pass through a third party in order to prevent the donor from exerting influence on the recipient, or the creation of a criminal offence penalizing participation in a group for the purpose of committing violence against persons because of their origin or religion. It should also be recalled that our President, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, mentioned at first reading an important measure concerning the method of appointing members of the French Council of Muslim Worship (CFCM). Finally, I regret that several articles of common sense from the Senate were swept away during the new reading in committee: the ban on community lists in elections – this seems fundamental to me – the reporting to the prosecutor's office by the CAF of situations of polygamy, or the suspension of family benefits in the event of child absenteeism. I come to the important subject of family education. The IDU and independent group opposes the licensing regime that you want to impose on this mode of education, and is in line with the Senate to promote a system that combines more control and prevention. To the extent that you do not wish – or cannot – to deploy the necessary means to ensure checks with the pupils educated at home, you create a restrictive system of prior authorization which, unfortunately, will punish many families which respect the principles of the Republic. We will propose several measures to avoid this pitfall: to ensure that the answers are given within a reasonable time, and that all the necessary tools are made available to those who wish to educate their children with their families. I also welcome the provisions on out-of-contract private schools, which reinforce the measures of the so-called Gatel law – aimed at simplifying and better regulating the system of opening and monitoring out-of-contract private schools – of which my colleague Michel Zumkeller was the rapporteur. While this law was an important first step, we have a duty to take further action against institutions that do not respect the values of the Republic, influenced by dangerous ideologies that are at all points opposed to our most fundamental principles. In his speech to the Walls, the President of the Republic made a lucid observation regarding separatism in our country. The bill lacks a component to address several deficiencies – we deeply regret it. However, Jean-Louis Borloo's report – which I welcome – offered many solutions in terms of integration, education and social support. In the same spirit, we support measures to strengthen the neutrality of public services, to exercise financial control over religious associations and to combat online hatred. However, it would have been necessary to go further! [[The speaker spoke a sentence in Hebrew]] After this general opinion, allow me to make a few more personal remarks. "To name things wrong is to add to the misfortune of the world. This well-known sentence, attributed to Albert Camus, tells us how unfortunate it is not to explicitly target evil, the enemy: political Islam. Comparison is not right, but let us remember that long before a strong Muslim community developed there, France has been a Jewish community for nearly two thousand years. In two millennia, never Judaism and French identity, never Judaism and Republic have entered into conflict. Why? Because Judaism affirms a first principle, superior to all others: the law of your country is your law; It takes precedence over religious law. This fundamental principle is mentioned several times in the Talmud, and is not a vain word:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u84	We're in a secular parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u85	... it translates weekly in prayer for the French Republic, pronounced at the Shabbat office in all the synagogues of France. It's more than a symbolic question:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u86	We're not here to defend a religion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u87	... I am convinced that this is our great French challenge. Yes, the majority of French Muslims are ordinary citizens who respect the laws; They have the right to believe, to pray, to practice their religion. Unfortunately, a significant minority of Muslims believe that Islamic law, Shariah law, must prevail. According to a survey conducted by FIFG in November 2020, 57% of young Muslims believe that sharia must take precedence. For the past 20 years, we have witnessed a systematic assault on republican ideals in public services, hospitals, municipalities and schools. This is why our group proposes to extend the duty of neutrality to employees of private law organizations directly or indirectly involved in the public service. If jihadist terrorism is visible, political Islam is more pernicious: it gnaws our common foundations and practices taqiya, concealment, for the purpose of reconquest. Political Islam is a multifaceted phenomenon that borrows many faces and hurts Islam. It's not just ideology. Political Islam participates in this enslavement of certain neighbourhoods against the background of France's hatred, anti-white racism – yes, anti-white racism – and, as always alas, anti-Semitism against the background of Israel's detestation. Our common future depends on the reconquest of these lost territories of the Republic. It is no coincidence that this text also finds its source in the typical French tragedy of Samuel Paty's atrocious murder. Who can forget it here? In recent years, we have passed some 15 anti-terrorism laws. I myself participated in five commissions of inquiry. This project foresees real progress even if, in my view, it sometimes remains a little shy. I have no doubt about the determination of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, but this text may offer us the last chance to have a real combat republic. While the trial of the attacks of January 2015 ended a few months ago, thousands of people claim increasingly more Kouachi than Charlie. What a sadness! What a failure! Young people who whistle La Marseillaise, who refuse the minutes of silence and trample on the French flag! No, this text does not stigmatize anyone: these irresponsible people stigmatize themselves and stigmatize their religion. The worst part is that they reverse the roles. Too long, ladies and gentlemen, we have retreated from the political Islam that is advancing inexorably. The response must be comprehensive and effective. That is what we hope for from the second reading of this text. I would like to talk about the most difficult moment of my life: the day I was sitting on a plane alongside Eva Sandler, the woman who, in 2012, saw her two children, her niece, little Myrian Monsonego, and her husband killed at close range in front of her eyes. We were going to bury them in Jerusalem. Alain Juppé was sitting behind me. At some point, Eva Sandler cracked. She cried. All my life, I'll remember her look, the funeral of little bodies. Today, this woman is only love, she does not hate anyone, she does not want revenge: she is of immense dignity. It is to these people that I want to think about, these victims, Samuel Paty's family, the family of these children who died on July 14 as they watched, amazed, a fireworks on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice – they were of all origins. They're the ones I want to think about, the journalists who were doing their job, the people who were shopping in a supermarket, the police. If this text avoids a single attack, a single death, a single family in mourning, then it will have achieved its objective. That is my conviction. That is why our group will vote in favour of this bill, without hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u88	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u89	Let us sum up this bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism: a lot of display and constraints, little efficiency. Like any person attached to the Republic, the members of the Freedom and Territory Group obviously agree with the need to fight ardently against Islamic fundamentalism, which presents a real danger, a real threat to our country. The question is how to deal with this threat. However, a majority of the members of our group consider that the tools provided for in this text are not the right ones. In your speeches, you are targeting Islamist terrorists, but in fact, many of the measures in this text will apply to all religions and religions, which are religions of peace. They will therefore apply to persons, associations, families who respect the values of the Republic and who will be imposed an overload of unnecessary constraints. Secularism is not opposition to religions, I want to say here, in the National Assembly. Secularism imposes on religions the need to exercise itself within a framework that fully respects the values of the Republic. Therefore, our group believes that in many respects this bill misses its target. The Senate had shown wisdom on some aspects, less on others. As for the special committee, it had little consideration of the Senate's opinion and had largely re-established the Assembly's text at first reading. We have classified the sections of this bill into three different categories. We support the first, which aims to strengthen the principles of secularism and neutrality of the public service and the protection of civil servants. This is the case with Article 1e r, which extends the obligations of neutrality to private bodies carrying out a public service mission. This is a measure of common sense. We also support Article 2, which extends the accelerated procedure to acts of local and regional authorities which undermine the principle of neutrality. We are adding a means of exercising control over the legality of the actions of local and regional authorities, even though there are already many. Of which act. We also support articles 4 and 5, which will better protect public servants. A second category of measures brings together articles which we approve for their purpose but which are either already covered by existing law or inapplicable in practice. We can cite, for example, article 13 concerning the protection of reservatory heirs. The Senate had been wise in removing this inapplicable clause, and we deplore the stubbornness of the majority to maintain it. We can also cite Article 14 aimed at combating polygamy, the scope of which is not clearly defined and which will not produce the desired results. It's pure display. Finally, the third category of measures covers the articles to which we oppose because we consider that they violate fundamental freedoms, while their effectiveness will leave to be desired. We are thinking of article 6, which provides for the creation of a contract of commitment for associations to respect the principles of the Republic. We do not see the merit of creating such a contract when, by definition, the principles of the Republic apply to all of us all the time in our country. Does that mean that associations that do not subscribe to this contract would not be obliged to comply with them? We believe that a contract formulated in this way contributes much more to the weakening of the authority of public authority than to its strengthening. Another display measure without real range. We are also thinking of article 18, which creates an offence of disseminating information or images for the purpose of harming the person, the scope of which is broader than the article of the law for global security, censored last month by the Constitutional Council. And paf! The latter had pointed out that the legislator had not sufficiently defined the constituent elements of the offence. The same reasoning will apply to Article 18 of this text – and you know that! Indeed, with a provision drafted in such broad terms, there is more than a risk that this article will not apply to persons with in reality no malicious intent. Another useless display measure. Finally, we are thinking of article 21, which aims to move from a simple declaration scheme to an authorization scheme for family education. This article, which was usefully amended by the Senate, was reinstated in its original version during the special committee review. This article is very dangerous for our freedoms! The freedom to choose a child's education is the corollary of the principle of freedom of education. It is one of the fundamental principles recognized by the laws of the Republic. Thus this article is likely to be found to be contrary to our constitution. One more! Above all, it seems to us to be ineffective in combating fundamentalism, since in this area it is a matter of controlling those who are engaged in education within the family, in order to ensure that children receive a proper education, and not of attacking the principle of family education itself and all the families who have made this choice. Finally, the provisions on cultural associations continue to provide for superfluous constraints by imposing administrative and accounting burdens on all associations, while the vast majority of them are fully respectful of the values of the Republic. Above all, they did not need these new constraints. In the end, you rightly want to fight against a very small minority of people who pose serious problems to us, but you are undermining the freedoms of the majority of the population. You impose new constraints on worship through measures that will prove ineffective. That is why our group will again speak very largely against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u90	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u91	We are again debating a text, on which we have already spoken a lot and on which we will intervene article by article during the debates, and whose title refers to "respect for the principles of the Republic". Today, in the aftermath of an election marked by unprecedented abstention, this theme should logically lead us to question the fact that two thirds of our fellow citizens do not even participate in what is the foundation of any republican institution, that they do not even go to the polling station, a place of expression of popular sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u92	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u93	If we were really committed to respecting republican principles, instead of wasting time examining unnecessary texts, we should act tirelessly to ensure that the institutions are finally loved and respected by every citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u94	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u95	For months and months, I have not heard any proposals from the majority, who are presenting this text to us, to change the institutions. You have done none to make the citizen more respectful of the Republic and to get back to believing that this institutional system is the best framework for expressing his full sovereignty. It's already a signature. You want us to talk about respecting republican principles, but is there a Republic when those who present this text are indifferent to the fact that more and more of our fellow citizens are turning away from the ballot box? Is there respect for the Republic when social inequalities are widening, 10 million of our citizens are living below the poverty line and since the arrival of your majority in 2017 there have been 1 million more of them? Is there respect for republican principles when lay-off plans succeed, when, in many cases, the companies concerned have received unconditionally paid public money? Is there respect for republican principles, when the ecological crisis has led to the disappearance of one third of our country's birds for 15 years and 80% of Europe's insects? The text is silent on all the major republican issues, those that arise when you are truly republican and you do not get a sense of words that are trivialized. Yes, indisputably, our country has suffered jihadist attacks. Blood sank; Religious fanatics have struck the Republic. But is the text we are debating useful in combating these attacks? No. The Prime Minister himself recognized him, as did the Minister of the Interior. In an interview with a great evening newspaper, as they say, the Prime Minister said that this text would not have prevented the recent attacks that had bereaved our country. What should we do then? As always, we must help the police and intelligence services, and, for example, ensure that we do not have a specific diplomatic link with authoritarian and religious regimes that are sometimes behind the scenes when some people strike our country. However, we continue to sell weapons...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u96	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u97	...to oil monarchies who are infamous regimes. If we really respect republican principles, we might wonder about this tartuffery: we fight religious fundamentalism and the most retrograde Islamism, and at the same time we sell weapons without complex and without reflection – business is business. What is the bill finally talking about? Many of the issues discussed were already covered in previous laws without the measures adopted being applicable because of the lack of resources or the weakness of public services. More than the text, we are interested in the context. I am thinking of the context that you are making, of the ideological and cultural setting in which a conversation is taking place today, in which you say: "To respond to the attacks, we are acting, and we are attacking those who are in truth at least potentially responsible, those who are not very clear about the attacks, that is to say, those 5 to 6 million of our Muslim fellow citizens. » The minister of the interior sold the wick by debating France 2 with Mrs Le Pen...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u99	... and explaining to her that she was too "soft"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u100	That's disgusting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u101	... in the face of Islam, which replied that she could have signed the book he had just published on Islamist separatism. This is the context you want to create: you want to make it clear that you are not in any way out of the extreme right to track down our Muslim fellow citizens. I say it like that because things were made clear earlier. You do not ask any other religion in our country what you ask of the Muslim religion; you do not ask any of them to create more democratic associations. Of course, it would be contrary to our republican principles: we do not have to interfere with the organization of cults... except, obviously, in this text, concerning Islam. Why Islam? I attended the hearings to enrich the text in a special committee, and I heard the head of the central territorial intelligence service who considered that in 96% of Muslim places of worship there were absolutely no problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u102	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u103	We know where there are difficulties and we usually monitor them. There is no need to ask for specific amendments to Muslim cult associations, unless the same request is made for all other cults, which no one is considering here, of course. Whether you like it or not – perhaps this finding is difficult for some of you – religions are not democracies: they organize themselves as they want and respond to rules other than those that organize the Republic. You have forged the word "separatism". So you have discovered that there are people in this country who do not want to send their children to the same schools as others, who do not want to live in the same neighborhoods as others, nor do they want to meet the same rules as others. We know them, those who care to live in a well-placed neighbourhood, far from the populace and the poor: they are the rich. The separatism of the rich develops and strengthens. Do you plan on taking action to fight him? Absolutely not! You laugh in general when you are told that this separatism undermines our country. There are, however, fewer and fewer places where the richest people meet their fellow citizens in popular circles: they neither frequent the same cultural places, nor the same neighbourhoods, nor the same holiday places. All this, after all, is indifferent to you. Yet, in a moment of lucidity, the President of the Republic speaking of "separatism of neighbourhoods" said: "We ourselves have built our own separatism. At the right time! But then, what is planned in the bill to try to repair the damage of this separatism, which consists of relegating many of our fellow citizens to neighbourhoods where difficulties are concentrated, where public school is of poor quality, where public services no longer exist? Absolutely nothing. The bill does not address this issue at all; She's an impense of this text, her blind angle. Yet, said Lionel Jospin, "the public school is the cradle of the Republic". He was absolutely right. If we want to talk about the respect of republican principles, let's start with the foundation: the public school. I had denounced, at first reading, school separatism: it is bursting. Today, there are twice as many scholarship holders in public schools as in private schools, and this gap is widening year after year. Children of the most privileged backgrounds are increasingly attending private schools, and the public school receives much more children from disadvantaged backgrounds. I intend to respect the parents' freedom to send their children to the school they want, but the paradox is that, from public funds, we are financing private school; We finance separatism, we strengthen it. Your government has helped to deepen the effects of the 1959 Debré law, a real blow to secularism – I am thinking of your choice of schooling children from the age of three in private schools, which translates into an increase in their public funding. You don't touch school separatism. For you, it's out of the question. In the context of the questions to the Government, I recently asked the Minister of National Education to denounce the closures of classes in my constituency of Seine-Saint-Denis: he had replied, with great delicacy as usual, that I was doing propaganda and that I was instrumentalizing disadvantaged families. Three days later, aware of the reality, in view of the figures, he had receded: the situation was so scandalous that he returned to the planned class closures, without, however, apologizing to me. To stay on the school question, you completely miss your target and you attack the poor families who have made the choice of the IEF – family education. For my part, I am in favour of controls, while we know that today a third of the families who have chosen the IEF are not controlled. Let them be at least every year! Let us begin with this to assess the nature of the problem. You did not even want to accept our proposals to make two checks mandatory a year, so that there is at least one – only one annual check is now mandatory. Families who had not asked for anything were in some way mistreated: they found themselves at the heart of a debate that did not concern them at all. You dare to speak constantly of secularism and to avail yourself of this magnificent word. I love secularism so much that I want it everywhere, for everyone and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u105	Only you laugh at us when we point out to you that, if we stick to the metropolis, the great law of December 9, 1905 – I know only this law, in particular its first two articles, which define secularism in our country, all the rest being only interpretation – does not apply in three departments in which the Republic finances worship. You consider this not to be the subject, but it costs 55 million euros a year, which I pay as a taxpayer of Seine-Saint-Denis and which all taxpayers of France pay. Why should I finance separatism? The minister replied with great authority that it was for historical reasons. Where are we going with such arguments? If, for historical reasons, we no longer respect secularism, we will definitely not go very far. Can you explain to me why the bishop of Alsace receives 4171 euros a month while the great rabbi of Strasbourg receives only 2624 euros? This is just one example, but these disparities are hurting in the eyes of different cults, and I thank you for the fact that, in these departments, Muslim worship does not benefit from public money. If one wants to be a pedagogue and to make it clear that secularism is neither an argument with variable geometry nor a principle that only applies to a few, it is necessary to ensure that the 1905 law applies throughout the territory. A recent poll brings water to my mill: a large majority of our fellow citizens from Bas-Rhin, Haut-Rhin and Moselle are in favour of abrogation of the Alsace-Moselle agreement. Finally, you are the only one left to resist this evolution: those who speak of secularism are in fact the last obstacle to the application of this principle to the whole territory. Repeal the concordat of Alsace-Moselle! Be secular till the end! This will avoid the political manoeuvres that we have seen recently in Strasbourg: after the approval of the construction of a mosque by a mayor linked to your majority, you questioned the decision to continue this project by the newly elected ecologist mayor, creating a pataquès in the name of the defense of secularism. The group La France insoumée proposed a very simple solution: to repeal the agreement of Alsace-Moselle and no longer to finance any place of worship. This would put everyone in agreement and avoid the totally detestable situations of political instrumentalisation by the Minister of the Interior, such as those we have witnessed. He acted at this point contrary to his words which he would deserve to be blamed. The rapporteur-general, who wanted to argue with our right-wing colleagues, spoke earlier about their "pathological obsession" with Islam. The majority, on the other hand, has a shameful obsession. The text that comes to us from the Senate is not, in the end, a contradiction to the text adopted by the Assembly: it only pushes its logic to the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u107	Fundamentally, its object remains the same: to create a debate and a conversation, not on the great trampling of our republican principles – the feeling of our fellow citizens to have fewer and fewer rights to weigh on decisions, the hyper-presidentialization of the regime of the Fifth Republic – nor on what could give meaning to the Republic – like the desire to have tools for popular intervention – but, on the contrary, on what diverts us from social, democratic and ecological issues: Islam, Islam, Islam. That is where we are, so much so that Mr. Meyer Habib went up to the gallery to explain the superiority of a religion over Islam.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u108	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u109	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Same movements]] If we had been an assembly of secular republicans, we should have cut off his word and explained to him that in this rostrum it was not to boast the superiority of one cult over another and that it was a misunderstanding of what the 1905 law is. I respect all religions, but how is it possible that one speaker can come here to defend one dogma against another and to say that he is one superior to the other? That's absurd! That's what you've made: contempt that can be said. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The Republic has real enemies, but it has false friends. The biggest reproach I'm making for you is that I've worked hard on words, made them incomprehensible. You keep talking about secularism and Republic, and because of you, in popular circles, these magnificent words, these words of emancipation have become suspicious. In fact, this bill that reinforces respect for republican principles is a text that disregards these principles because you do not know them. If you want to divert the conversation, you're hurting the Republic. You were sanctioned on that last Sunday, and that's good news. Today, the people do not want to let themselves be taken by your diversion. For our part, we continue to defend secularism and the Republic, whether through the amendments that we will support later or our programme. All this will be settled not only this week, but also in twelve months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u110	Where he is, Jaurès acclaims you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u111	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u112	The French Republic is indivisible, democratic and secular and must therefore be social. These pillars form the foundation of our nation's institutions and determine the relationship with citizens. Therefore, considering a piece of legislation to reinforce these principles is not annoyed? To debate new legislative mechanisms to strengthen respect for our core values can be a strong signal. This exercise obliges us to make the diagnosis of the causes of their erosion: yes, fractures exist in our society with fundamentalist thrusts and individualism that takes precedence over the general interest. In the face of these dangers, our ability to create commons is diminished and, yes, social and democratic anemia is the key issue to resolve for our country to get better. That is why this bill, by allowing us to question what is weakening our Republic, will also provide answers. This is a necessary and urgent task. Unfortunately, when one looks at its content precisely, it appears that the answers are not up to date. The text does not address the root causes and therefore does not provide the solutions expected. In the course of this new reading, we will try, through our amendments, to enrich a text, several parts of which have been neglected or left completely out. The answer, in fact, cannot only be regulatory or even repressive. This text should enable us to move forward on a multitude of social aspects in order to ensure equality for all, wherever they are in the country. I am thinking of the breakdown of equality suffered by the Seine-Saint-Denis: in my department more than in others, having access to its rights implies taking a tortuous path. The medical deserts, the unreplaced teachers, the lack of social housing, the lack of funds for associations, the constantly understaffed law enforcement forces are at the root of the fractures that are growing within the Republic. Access to government services is shifting away as local public services close under the weight of budgetary choices. The community world must replace it – the same world that is pointed out and identified as a suspect in many sections of the bill. Also, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left deeply regrets the stalemate in the strengthening of public services, this incarnation of the Republic on a daily basis. They were not among the priorities of the presidential majority. However, taking steps in this direction would have enabled us to respond to the problems we face today. In addition, there are no provisions against gender, disability, origin or social class discrimination in the bill. Yet they undermine national cohesion. Opposition discourses between "they" and "we" continue to multiply. We have seen this during our debates, and more clearly during the Senate's review of the text, where cartoons, shortcuts and stigmatizations have been legion. Many of the measures provided for in the text create a climate of suspicion towards the community and the sports community. The Republican contract of engagement, of which we do not know precisely the content, will not bring anything concrete and will remain a pure display if we do not deal with the modalities of control or the means given to associations to carry out their so essential tasks. A contract theoretically involves the engagement of two parties. Where are the State's commitments to the associative movement? The brutal end of aided contracts, the under-funding of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life (FDVA), the massive use of calls for projects distort the fact of associations and deprive these actors of financial visibility – all realities that weaken the world of associations. But nothing in this text is intended to support and accompany the volunteers and employees concerned. Several articles concern the sports movement. I do not underestimate the phenomena of radicalization in certain clubs. They certainly call for the vigilance of elected officials with regard to subsidies and authorisations for the use of equipment. Above all, they require that the Ministry of Sport find ways to play its inspection and control role, which deconcentrated directorates should exercise in connection with clubs. It would be more effective than asking the National Agency for Sport (ANS), a public interest group (GIP) composed of the State, local authorities, the voluntary movement and companies, to sign a Republican contract of engagement: who, among these four types of actors, does not respect the principles of the Republic? Last March, we examined a bill to democratize sport in France. It would have seemed logical to discuss the other articles on the organisation of the sports movement when considering this text at second reading. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Finally, during this quinquennium, we will have dealt more with sport in a text aimed at strengthening the principles of the Republic than in a bill devoted to it. I see a lack of knowledge and recognition of the place of sport in our society and the role of volunteers in the sport movement. Finally, we are concerned about the importance of administrative justice in the bill. The judgments handed down by the administrative courts should not, in our view, replace other courts ruling in particular on respect for individual freedoms. On the other hand, several measures, which we supported at first reading, seem to us to be relevant. It seems to me that the strengthening of controls over the financial resources of worship is in the right direction, as is the control of home education: the school of the Republic must be a right for every child. With regard to women's rights, I welcome the ban on virginity certificates and the penalization of sponsors. The message is clear: the body of women belongs to no one but themselves. I am also pleased with the reintroduction of article 14 bis, which allows women who are victims of polygamy practices to retain a residence permit bearing the word "private and family life". I would also like to welcome the commitment of the rapporteur, Dubré-Chirat, on this issue. Faced with a text considerably hardened and caricatured by the Senate, the work of the special commission allowed to debate in a serene and respectful climate. The particularly outrageous amendments proposed by the majority Republicans in the Senate have been removed. I'm very pleased with that. I regret – even if it was predictable – that this bill has become the most reactionary idea in the upper house of Parliament. In the continuation of our work in the special committee, I hope that we will not see a new auction on the right-wing benches of the Chamber. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] But this text leaves the social and democratic strands aside to focus only on regulatory issues, which, if they are not to be ruled out, will not be the most able to recreate the common. It therefore appears insufficient to meet the major challenge set out in its title: to strengthen respect for the principles of the Republic. That is why the Communist deputies will oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u113	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u114	Last February, at the end of the first reading of this bill, I could only note that the text you proposed simply touched on the problems. The vast majority of Members of the Republican Group voted against it, hoping that after its consideration in the Senate, you would make the necessary amendments so that it would not be limited to a display of good intentions. Unfortunately, what do we see? That the majority has returned to an unambitious text, to a bill of display, through which it wields great principles that it does not implement well. Your posture questions: why stand low in the face of separatism? By denial, inexperience, electoral calculus, lack of courage? A little of all this at once, I fear. This new reading is an opportunity to clarify your intentions: do you, yes or no, want to fight separatism effectively, or do you want to pretend?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u115	Put an end to the concordat in Alsace-Moselle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u116	For example, during the first reading of the bill, the Special Committee had accepted one of my amendments to refer to compliance with the minimum requirements of life in society in the title of Title I of the bill. All right. But when it comes to implementing this very laudable intention, because the guarantee of social peace, the amendments of our colleagues in the Senate are joyfully leaping, one after the other: yes to the minimum requirements of life in society, but not to religious discretion in the public space, not to respect secularism in swimming pools or bathing places, not to the prohibition of religious signs ostensible for minors and not to the prohibition of religious emblems on ballot papers and electoral propaganda documents! So we are in front of a poster text, designed by a majority who conscientiously defeated any concrete translation of the principles it purports to defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u118	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] You want to fight separatism, but you accept that, on the court of a town hall, after a marriage celebrated by the mayor girded with his tricolor scarf, we can brand foreign flags. Isn't there any inconsistency here? You claim to fight separatism, but you grant the renewal of their residence permit to wives of polygamous husbands. Forgive me, Mrs Buffet, but I am opposed to this provision. Do you think that the woman is a victim by nature and that separatism is only the act of men? Moreover, the retention of the women concerned in this situation does not bother you: why, if not, refuse that the funds of family allowances finding a situation of polygamy inform the prosecutor of the Republic? This angelism is confusing. On forced marriages, the Senate proposes to identify refusals so that a forced marriage refused here cannot be celebrated elsewhere. Well, no! You refuse to set up this database and suggest that with a little tenacity, it will always be possible to impose this kind of shameful unions in France. You claim to have created an offence of separatism aimed at protecting persons carrying out a public service mission. The usefulness of this protection is not questionable, but it does not specifically concern separatist-type attacks. So, at the very least, there is an abuse of language. Moreover, if you claim to create a separatism offence, why ignore the situation of private companies? Would separatism be more acceptable? Certainly not from our point of view! It is essential to give arms to entrepreneurs, who too often find themselves alone in the face of the intrusiveness of a political Islam, although discreet, but powerfully organized and determined. With this bill, you also refuse to tackle separatism – all separatism – in universities, which are the places where the conscience of those who will lead the country and teach our values to the youngest in the coming years is formed. Finally, you claim that this text is a tremendous step forward, never seen before. Yet the laws exist: it is enough to apply them. Why not extend the law of 13 April 2018 aimed at simplifying and better regulating the regime of opening and monitoring private non-contracted institutions, known as the Gatel law, to the control of family education, rather than undermining the fundamental principle of freedom to teach? Applying the law is what has been done for Mila, whose courage I would like to pay tribute to. But how many unknown Mila need our support in the face of radical Islam's violence? It is no longer time to display principles or good feelings without concrete translation. You are in power: you have a duty to act. It is necessary to attack the source of evil, that is, indoctrination from an early age. Freedom of conscience is a fundamental right in our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u119	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u120	It also concerns children and spouses of radicalized parents. The law must protect them from forced indoctrination. You have, however, waived this provision in the Senate. It's incomprehensible! I was telling you last February: Islamism is not fighting half. There is no middle ground, no "at the same time" – otherwise the battle is already lost. Today, the answer is in your hands. I hope that you will be able to listen to our proposals to enable this text to move from the point of wishful thinking to the point of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u121	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u122	If it is true, as Victor Hugo said, that "the Republic affirms the right and imposes the duty", it is on condition that we give it the means. The Republic is what unites us: it is the guarantor of the principles of justice, equality and secularism that guide our rule of law and nourish our democracy. But when she is demobilized, others take her place and trample on those ideals that are so dear to us. Therefore, in the face of separatism and communalism that defy our ability to live together and on which the terrorist threat thrives, it becomes urgent to defend it. This is the subject of the text which we are considering at second reading. Of course, it will not be enough alone to restore the pre-eminence of republican values: it will have to be part of a coherent, systematic and comprehensive policy capable of responding to these challenges. However, it clearly marks a step in the right direction: that of a restored national harmony. Some accuse us of stigmatizing part of the population, while, at the same time, they support extremist religious movements whose community behaviour is essentially exclusive and excluding. Our secularism represents the opposite since, by preserving the sensitivity and freedom of conscience of everyone, by not reducing the individual to a group or belief, it is the best defence against discrimination and rejection of others. Others, the very ones who have only made the situation worse by their inaction when they were in power, like to say today that we are not going far enough. We respond, with optimism but with no naivety, that there are no evils to which a policy combining nuance, a sense of reality and firmness cannot remedy. By way of example, I would like to point out that our colleague Philippe Vigier's bill to create a Republican Promise Fund will soon be studied, and that is one of the answers to the evils that I mentioned because we know no other way than that which allows every citizen the full and fair use of his rights. This desire for balance led our special committee to revise the text adopted by the Senate because its spirit was no longer in line with the one we voted for ourselves. We have come back to a reasonable text, now some changes introduced by senators while avoiding excesses motivated by media agenda considerations. Thus, the special commission has maintained certain useful provisions, such as the oaths imposed on law enforcement officials or the affirmation of the prohibition on religious associations from disturbing public order by their object or activities: this step forward demonstrates our willingness to work in good faith and constructively. On the other hand, we supported the abolition of provisions such as the ban on the wearing of ostensible religious signs in public places, the obligation of religious neutrality imposed on candidates for elections and even school attendants, or the prohibition of non-mixed meetings in associations: not that such subjects do not deserve a debate, but we believe that the way in which they have been discussed reveals a spirit of confusion to which the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats do not join. Such provisions should be limited only to cases where the exercise of a public service is in question. If these provisions are not wrong in principle, they must be studied with greater discernment. Finally, certain mechanisms abolished in the Senate and yet necessary, such as the guarantee of the social mix of the publics schooled in private institutions under contract, have been restored. We also wanted to restore the system of prior authorization for family education as we had adopted it at first reading, remaining firmly attached in this regard to the words of Jaurès, who refused "to see the children of the same people divided into two systems of education as between two enemy camps". You will have understood this: this version of the text satisfies the Dem Group, and I would like to commend the ministers concerned, in particular Mr Blanquer, for having heard the Members. However, we believe that it is necessary to complete the text by supplementing certain points in order to ensure a better balance between them. Thus, the Senate's amendment on non-mixed meetings, which is awkward in its wording, nevertheless deserves the attention of our chamber. We will therefore propose that the Government submit annually to Parliament a report on violations of secularism and their management within higher education institutions on the basis of information directly provided by the heads of the institutions concerned, and every 18 months a summary of all reports received from the public administrations on breaches of secularism within them or in private bodies entrusted with a public service mission. It is indeed important to have serious, precise and complete information on these subjects, not only to Parliament but also to society as a whole. We will also propose to extend to all cultural and socio-cultural centres where teaching would be provided the possibility for the prefect to prevent their opening if they represent a risk of foreign interference. There is no reason to confine this prerogative to schools alone: it must be extended to any private educational institution. Some cases, such as that of the municipality of Albertville, must alert us to the importance of preventing any circumvention of the device. As a reminder: a few months after the arrest of four schoolchildren in CM2 for apology of terrorism and threat of death on their teacher, in full tribute to Samuel Paty, a school project financed by an association affiliated with Turkey was nevertheless authorized by the justice, contrary to the opinion of the mayor of this commune. Finally, it seems useful for our group to raise the issue of the political and religious neutrality of assessors at polling stations. Since the presidents of polling stations are now subject to such a requirement, it seems logical that all the members of the bureaus should also be so: it is a matter of principle as well as of coherence. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] All these proposals are in line with our initial position, which aims to restore its full place and vitality to the republican pact built, in essence, on the balance of positions of all stakeholders. It must be our compass throughout our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u123	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u124	The 1905 law, one hundred and sixteen years after its adoption, seems to be of absolute modernity and clarity. As for this text, not even five months after he made his laborious journey between the Assembly and the Senate, there already seems to be an all-banked old-fashioned, creating more confusion than it brings clarification: in total, many of us agree that it is useless, and many know that it is dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u125	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u126	Among all that I will have to blame for this bill and, above all, the discussions that have surrounded it, there is first of all the confusion that has been established in the minds and in the public debate. Gradually, we will have come to believe absurd things, for example that secularism would be a kind of state atheism, the latter commanding that religion is a suspicious matter. But it's not the history of France, it's not the story of this idea. Secularism is not a state atheism. It is, on the contrary, the condition that allows each religion to be lived by each one in his heart, in his conscience, and to be practiced in complete freedom. For where the state recognizes religions, one of them necessarily dominates, and which says dominant says dominated! This was the case throughout the Old Regime, especially since there was a state religion. It is enough to convince one to remember how the Jews were treated in France for centuries, how it was necessary for them to redeem the right not to be slapped once a year in the county of Toulouse, how they were eleven times expelled from the national territory by the kings! But it must be believed that the latter did not believe themselves in the meaning of this decision, since they brought them back, and it is happy. This is what can happen when a religion is recognized by the State. In all countries where a religion is recognized as a consubstantial one, we know that freedom is not full and complete as we generally hear us, French, and here, on almost every bench, we support Victor Hugo's formula: "The State at home, the Church at home. Confounding secularism and atheism is a serious mistake, not only intellectual,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u128	... but also by its consequences, because it causes a stiffening of consciousness against secularism, which is absurd! The images that attach themselves to the fundamentals of secularism express exactly the opposite. If you take the trouble of looking at the table of the oath of the Jeu de palme, you will see it, in the foreground – while attention is often fixed on those who raise their arms to take the oath that underpins the authority of the Constituent National Assembly – a man holding a priest and a pastor in his arms. This man was Rabaut Saint-Etienne, a lawyer, son of a lawyer, grandson of the lawyer who had freed the Protestant women who, after a large raid organized by King Louis XIV, had been emmured for thirty years. The Republic and the will of the people were born in the idea of restoring harmony between all citizens, regardless of their religion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u130	He could have taken in his arms at this moment a rabbi and an imam, if the circumstance had made it possible, for this is the spirit of the Republic! I would like to remind you, speaking to my youngest compatriots, who sometimes mix all these ideas and do not discern the way in which they are applied. It is true that we do not help them. I also say this to you, Mrs Genevard, whose honesty and rigour I have always respected, even if we do not agree, because you are mistaken in saying that 50% to 70% of young people place God's law above the law of the Republic. Madam, if you yourself are a believer – I will not venture to ask you the question, it is a rhetorical figure – you must consider that 100% of God's law is superior to all other laws,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u131	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u132	...which does not prevent you from respecting the laws of your country, especially since many French laws are laws of freedom and not coercion. Let us take the example of the freedom to abort: it is not an obligation, it has never been said that women who do not wish to abort would be forced to do so, and those who consider it a sin are entitled to do as they see fit. Whenever a freedom seems to go against a prescription of a cult, it must be remembered that it is above all a freedom. That is why religion and the State must live on their side. Of course, the meeting takes place in the city – I will come back – but it does not allow political leaders, and I am sure you will be in agreement with me, to say what must be in religion and what must not be in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u133	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u134	However, shortly after triggering the horvaris that accompanied this piece of legislation, we have seen the delegate minister here recommending that the imams preach the freedom of homosexuality. But that's totally absurd! A ruler does not have to say what an imam should preach,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u135	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u136	... especially when we know from the outset that the three religions of the Book are not very open on the subject, which they condemn in this case rather than encourage. What right would we go to say: "Do not do this, do not do this, do not speak of it in worship. It has happened that in France, we are rightly pursuing and punishing sects such as the Church of Scientology. But it was not because of what they teach, especially about their conception of transcendence, it was because of their practices, that is, the abuse of weakness that they engage in on a regular basis – there have been trials – and their financial activities. That is what is condemned, not what they say on the religious level. We are opposed on this point with the United States of America, which regularly sues us to condemn religions, whereas we have never condemned in France since the end of the Ancien Régime any religion whatsoever: we have condemned practices in violation of the law. The limit of religious freedom is public order as described by the law, and nothing else! We do not have to tell cults what to do, but we have the right and even the duty to listen to their recommendations because the word is free! Neither is it a question of prohibiting religious thinkers from enlightening public debate when they deem it necessary, even if we make exactly the opposite recommendations. As long as all this is done within the formal framework of the freedom of debate, there is nothing to be said about it. Where this no longer goes, is when religious come to say for whom one must vote or for whom one must not vote, and what program seems closest to their own interpretation of God's law. This is why Christian democracy has never had a great success in France, a country where Christians themselves saw it as a rebuke from the point of view of secularism. More importantly, let me mention how surprised I was at the recommendations of the community coalition of the Central Israelite Consistory of France, the so-called Conseil représentative des institutions juifs de France (CRIF) and the Unified Jewish Social Fund (FSJU). Before the first round of regional and departmental elections, they called on us not to vote for the National Rally or for France, by giving us lessons from the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u137	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u138	I fully understand that the members of these three organizations have political detestations – to a large extent I share them, including the first they have expressed. But we cannot accept such a position. I ask you to take stock of everything you have said to us: what is this prohibition, if not of religious communitarianism in the most trivial and trivial sense of the term? I do not want to hide it: like my comrades, it has cost me to have been covered by such a reproach, by so many friends with whom I have led, on so many occasions, battles for freedom, for respect and against anti-Semitism. It was really painful to be put on the same plane as those who, in the past, have said so many times and done exactly the opposite. The confusion that has been introduced makes secularism a state atheism and would allow politicians to tell the religious what to do or think. It is the rotten fruit of a debate that has not been sparkled by tolerance and mutual understanding, which, in the face of such subjects, must be an absolute rule. We can say what we want: for millennia of human existence, religion is one of the fundamental activities that have organized until the very birth of the State and the cities. All were built around the cult of a god who unifies social practices and allows the group to gather beyond the numbers from which he separated in a very deep past. Therefore, there is no relationship to religion other than that marked by strict separation and strict mutual respect. Five months later, the observation is clear: this strange text comes from another world, from another political communication season. The President of the Republic and a few others thought that a good operation would be carried out by going hunting on suspicious lands where the far right and the National Rally flourished alone. By a well-known drift that leads us to believe that the overbidding will allow the copy to outclass the original, we have heard, from the mouth of those whom we never imagined they would profess such certainties, the strangest things. This was true even in this House, not to mention what happened in the Senate, where quite reasonable people behaved in a perfectly unreasonable way, when it was about Islam. The ultimate truth is that this law was made to point the finger at Muslims. The only result is that, in our country – for which, I am sure, you are experiencing love and affection like me – millions of brave people have felt insulted and humiliated, while their whole lives are dedicated to good practices and the will to do the best they can for them and their children, respecting the law with, sometimes, much more merit than those who are responsible for upholding it and who do not always behave dignifiedly. That's what you wanted. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] My colleague Corbière has already pointed out the absurdity of a debate in which the minister of the interior, who is also responsible for cults, told Mrs Le Pen that she was too "soft". It's something we've never heard before, because there are things we don't say and never do, no matter what.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u139	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u140	When you're a Republican patriot, you don't talk like that. Similarly, I say and I repeat: the President of the Republic did not have to say, whatever he thinks, that Philippe Pétain was a great soldier, for he is only a great traitor and an anti-Semitic; He did not have to say that Charles Maurras was a great author, because he was a traitor to the homeland and an anti-Semitic. Whatever the cost, when you have virtue, you can make mistakes in the way you express yourself – who doesn't? However, some lines are still impassable. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr Bertrand Pancher and Mrs Albane Gaillot also applaud]] I know that we will probably not do much of this, but I think I am expressing the views of many colleagues on various benches, not just those on the left side of the House. I wish to repeat this solemnly in the rostrum: Muslims are not the enemies of France. They never failed in their duty when they were called to fight and sacrifice, whether at Monte Cassino, at the time of the landing of Provence, or when it was necessary to take back the street, meter by meter, to expel the Nazis who were in Notre-Dame-de-la-Garde. No, Muslims have never failed in their duty. Of course, there are energists and murderers among them, but in which human group are there none? None of us would have ever had the idea of imputing to the Catholic religion the killings that were committed in Norway in 2011. Everyone knows that their author is not worthy of the religion he claims, which has never wanted such acts. It's all violence! Who decided to use the term Islamogauchism, a smoking concept that came out of the propaganda of the far right and passed on everywhere? This is ridiculous. In all intellectual circles, this new maccarthysm made you laugh yellow. From the homeland of Enlightenment and Human Rights, it is amazing. Your law, who wanted to imitate it? In Spain, fascists and Francoists; In Denmark, an extreme right-wing government has even found this idea bright. This is the result: we French were the laughing stock of the world. When we were debotted, we were given a military rostrum calling for the hordes of the suburbs to be contained by active military intervention. Fortunately for us, the command of the army is republican and has not accepted this kind of injunction. Then there was this demonstration of police officers who, it is not known why, were able to take place in front of the National Assembly, in a place where no demonstration is usually allowed. They came to glapir, like the inficents they are, against justice. Everyone has something to say about justice, including me. But here too, there are limits not to be crossed. To say that justice would in itself be a problem for the country is an unbearable, unacceptable shame. The duty of these people is to serve and obey, not to come and say what justice must do or not do, by ceasing to express itself as police unions, to speak like political organizations, what they are. Surprised to be repainted in a religion and a political choice that have never been mine, along with a few others I was pointed out as an Islamogauchist and designated as a target. We were there when, by an overflow we had to expect, we went on to death threats, with a character pretending to check if we resisted bullets and stab wounds. From one auction to another, the following came: someone had the audacity to slap the President of the Republic. Faced with this unacceptable and unbearable act, I expressed, on behalf of all my friends, my immediate solidarity with the President of the Republic. Then, whatever my differences with Mr. de Rugy may be, none of us accepted that he should be treated with violence as he was, as well as no one – and I know that he too – accepted that I should be attacked in a demonstration. What was at issue was the constitutional right to manifest and be protected when exercised. Yes, protected; not assaulted, not by passers-by or others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u142	Protesters!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u143	All this is excessive and has opened the door to overflows. As I am pleased to see that our discussion is taking place in the aftermath of an election that has demonstrated the simplest, clearest, that all these absurd themes have nothing to do with the concerns of the French. Indeed, the latter did not move to vote for those who called on them to do so on behalf of an alleged threat to their security, although the latter did not fall within the competence of the departments or the regions. The distance from reality and the communicative illusion of those who thought they could organize this diversion cost them dearly: the voters who moved made them pay the price in the ballot box. The National Rally lost 106 regional councillors. Although repainted in Islamogauchist danger and as an enemy of the Republic, I have the pleasure, for my part, of winning twenty-six. Of course, you will have understood that these figures are only there to fill my demonstration. This allows me to say that the mass of the French do not recognize themselves in this absurd debate. Our fellow citizens have over the head to see hours of television and radio busy disserting sornettes, hints about religious identity, or the identity of the French homeland that would be compromised by I do not know which religion. France is well above all this, it is able to face everything at the same time. Yes, people have had enough. If the French have an identity, it is only one among others, because we all have several. A good African proverb says there are several people in the person: it is wisely reasoned. We make nation, all different than we are. As the great Jaurès explained, we consider on our benches that we make people when we gather, notwithstanding religions and speaking them, thanks to the demands we have in common, not for our corporation but for our common life. Together with my comrade Alexis Corbière, we discovered the texts of the speeches delivered by Jean Jaurès in Argentina. At the time, he was accused of being an agent of Germany, and I don't know what else – it's a habit of grossly insulting us before making us bad spells. Jaurès explained to Argentines that they would create Argentina by gathering around claims, not by grouping together by religion or around a language. That is why, at first, the ever-changing lessons of the Republic were annoying us. We considered that some of them did not lack air. From now on, we ask: the Republic, of course, but which one? If the word "Republic" must be continually joined to the forces of law and order – which, in my view, are forces of disorder – and to all possible violence, no. The Republic for us is a dynamic: it is not over. The Republic is the public thing; So it will come at the moment when everything will be public. That's not everyone's opinion, I know. But that's what makes us talk between Republicans. The Republic to the end, this is the historical trend of socialism from Jaurès. Others wonder: it depends, where is the end? This is a normal debate; We have to admit this discussion between us. But from there to make us enemies of the Republic because we defend, among other things, secularism and the right of Muslims, no; It's too much. I mean, you'll still be able to make an achievement, it's to agree on all of us. When the text passed at first reading, the votes on the benches of the traditional left were not the same. This time, everyone will vote in the same way: against the text. So here we are, in a way, falling on our feet. The unsubs are very proud to have held on no matter what. Nor can I let pass the idea that separatism would threaten France, a separatism consisting of the practice of such religion. I do not believe that it is in the means of anyone in this country to do separatism against the Republic and, if necessary, we will demonstrate it to you. I would like to recall that secularism has a very deep roots in the history of France, which it has to do with national sovereignty, first, and then with popular sovereignty. Like all the other kings of Europe, the kings of France confronted the papacy when it had ambitions of political direction, by nostalgia of the Roman Empire or to ensure a kind of continuity with it. The first kings, who depended too much on the ideological cohesion provided by the Church, began by yielding. Maybe you've heard of Robert II the Pious, it was around the year one thousand. This king had the bad grace to live according to standards that were not those of the Church: he had repudiated his wife, what Christianity forbids, and had married his cousin. Rome got angry. But the king did not want to know anything and he was excommunicated and the whole kingdom of France with: more Masses, more baptisms, more communion, more burials. He held for fifteen days and then he was seen running from one church to another, to practice religion with a fervour that had not been known to him until then – hence the nickname left to him in the story of Robert the Pious. So he was above all someone, I insist, who gave in. Another, much more interesting episode is the time when Pope Boniface VIII decided that, since he commanded the spiritual, he had to command the temporal. And he instructed Philip the Bel not to collect the tax on the Church – for behind all these very high discussions on transcendence, there was always a material aspect that did not escape anyone. The families of the French nobility, all of which had at least one religious, were well embarrassed by this conflict. The king gave up nothing. The pope fulmina, in particular, the bubbles Clericis laicos and Unam sanctam and the king still did not yield. On the contrary, he quoted the pope to appear before a council but, by a very unfortunate contest of circumstances, the pope died shortly after the "attack of Agnani" during which Sciarra Colonna, accompanying Guillaume de Guillaume de Nogaret who came to notify him of the quotation, would have slapped the pope – which seems unlikely, but finally, it is part of the story. Under this circumstance, therefore, the king did not give in. But he was a good Catholic, let me tell you. The next episode features Henry III and Henry IV. There, you have a handful of men and women – including Marie de Gournay – who don't care about knowing – not really, because they are Catholics – which religion is the king. But according to the so-called salic law, the king is the eldest of the elder branch: if it falls on a Protestant, it is he, the king. This is the time to recall a little-known episode of Montaigne's life, which spent its time going from one end of Europe to the other to foment intrigues in order to promote the advent of Henri de Navarre, who changed religion three times between Protestant and Catholic, and eventually became king. Thus is affirmed the preeminence of the policy on the religious in France, a preeminence that dates back to this time more than that of Philip the Bel. The next step was the separation of the Church and the State in 1794, during the Great Revolution, when the Convention decreed that the Republic "no longer pays the costs or wages of any worship". It wasn't easy and you all know what it gave – but this separation took place. However, freedom of conscience had previously been affirmed – in 1789 – and what seems banal today was an incredible intellectual revolution at the time. Then we have the Commune of Paris, there too a revolution – it didn't happen in a conference, what do you want! It was even pretty rough, you have to say, but it was. So much so that, when the question is taken up under the Third Republic, one has the intelligence to understand that no one will be able to coerce anyone. The discussion is very lively. I am delighted to see the number of those who today congratulate our great elders and who would have agreed on the 1905 law. Sweet dream! It is only to read the proceedings of the proceedings to see how hot they were. And the application of the text was not made easier, on the contrary. Finally, it was the French people who made the right decision. Since they did not want to fight and the Republicans who ruled had the intelligence to give in to what had to be given in, the French ceased to occupy the churches to prevent the troops from making inventories, the Republic ceasing to want to know what was in the tabernacles – the reason for the ultimate grabbing. The 1905 law, basically, what does it say? That he is no more sovereign in France than the people; that there is no transcendence that is above the will of the people and their representatives. Secularity is therefore intimately confused with the principle of the sovereignty of the people: they are the two sides of the same question. Since there is no power superior to the will of the people – neither intellectual nor moral nor psychological – as no external law can be opposed to them – it can be proposed but not opposed to them – then secularism is the other word that deals, in the deepest sense, with the sovereignty of the people since it postulates its power under all circumstances to decree what is good and what is bad, that is, what is lawful and what is not. For, basically, the Republic does only that: to say what is lawful and what is illegal. As regards the assessment of the moral value of the requirements thus provided, it is a personal matter. That's why separatism is not where you think it is. Separatism is the one that undermines the other founding principle of the sovereignty of the people: the unity and indivisibility of the Republic, which certainly have to do with the borders, but above all with a principle deeper than the latter, the unity of the national community, namely the unity of the people – which is based on its sovereignty, thus its capacity to self-organize. The unity and indivisibility of the Republic means that the law applies to all in the same way because it has been decided by all, through the representatives of the people. The Republic, secularism, sovereignty are consubstantial: it is three words that designate three elements of the same reality, the one born with humanism which proclaimed that the human being is entirely responsible and master of his destiny, that he does not accomplish the purpose of any providence, that he does not act according to any predestination, and that, if he thinks otherwise, it is his business and not that of the State and the City. I felt the need to tell you all this to remind you that it is useless to create enemies when you are a Republican. The Republic has had enough difficulty in making itself understood by those who it wants to protect, defend. Yes, among the French people, there has been deep resistance to the laws establishing secularism, which the papacy encouraged. In 1906, the encyclical Vehementer ours condemned the 1905 law and urged Catholics not to apply it. Indeed, this law was in addition to those that had abolished public prayers at the beginning of each parliamentary session, required seminarians and priests to serve in the military, and repealed the blessing of the war buildings. The papacy fought the Republic until 1920 and recognized it only from the corner of the elbow. It's been done since then, and it's no longer a subject. But we had to go through all these steps. Also, knowing how to hold on is knowing how to convince; Not to insult, not to point fingers, not to limit, not to marginalize, but to convince. It is to show that, as regards what people are most sensitive to, what they are most attached to, as regards their intimate conviction of the existence or non-existence of God, the instructions he would give and how to respect them, the republican state is not at war against faith. The republican state is not at war, I dare say, against any conviction, except those that violate the law. In Republican France, in fact, you have the right to be a royalist, to broadcast royalist newspapers, to present candidates in elections that are royalist. The Republic is the regime of this extreme openness of mind, of this capacity of reception which means that at the end of the end the popular wisdom and the capacity of intellectual and moral resistance of those who represent the people will be able to overcome all difficulties. That's my bet. You do not need to do all this evil to convince France that its interest is in secularism. I want to convince my Muslim friends and comrades who are campaigning in Maghreb countries, who are often on my political side – socialists, communists, ecologists, revolutionists, insubmissive too, there are everywhere... – that they have an interest in secularism. They are not always convinced of this, precisely because they are accused of making secularism a state atheism. No, it is not a state atheism; Yes, secularism is a rule of common life; Yes, secularism is the means of the sovereignty of the people. It is not a soul supplement, assuming that the soul exists. It is something that says to our fellow citizens: "French, whoever you are, whatever your religion or non-religion – which is the case with the majority of French people who end up considering certain debates unbearable – you are personally responsible first of all for your homeland, that is to say for all the others in their right. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] I am not surprised, and I end, that, in all the periods of reaction, homework is referred to more often than rights. A Republican knows no other duty than to uphold the rights of everyone. And it is at this price that the Republic is not a lesson in morality or a philosophical discourse that would prevail, if not to say this: the people are sovereign and they alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u144	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u145	Let me, first of all, and this is the first time that I have done so, but I am happy to do so, to thank Jean-Luc Mélenchon for the quality of his speech, of which I share the content, a great political speech – it is rare in this chamber – which is also a great moment of popular education, which is not prohibited here, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u146	It's the union of the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u147	No, I'm just sharing my feelings. As you know, France will always be able to count on the Communists to defend the principles of the Republic, those which the Enlightenment inspired and which the French Revolution proclaimed: freedom, equality, fraternity – principles unfortunately too often forgotten. You will always find us ready to reverse the obscurantisms and defend the freedom of conscience guaranteed by secularism, a secularity without adjective deviating it from its ends – neither open nor combat – but secularism, simply, as our predecessors of 1905 wanted, in order to guarantee to all the freedom to believe or not to believe. But your text moves away from this state of mind, it is a bill not of freedom but of authority, control and even stigmatization, as the obsessive debates on the veil have widely shown. This text does not take into account Aristide Briand's warning: "The Republic cannot oppress consciences or interfere in its multiple forms with the external expression of religious sentiments. Your reform must not lead us on a dangerous path, asking individuals and society for a confessional neutrality that secularism actually requires of the State and the Republic. No, secularism has never assumed religious neutrality in public space; it presupposes religious neutrality in public space. This law casts trouble rather than reinforces the principles that organize the republican contract established between our fellow citizens, clear and intelligible as Jean-Jacques Rousseau wanted, allowing us to reason "in the silence of passions on what man can demand from his fellowman, and on what his fellowman is entitled to demand from him". Where it was necessary to have this clarity, this serenity, you have never ceased to replace it with disorder by throwing in the same heated debate religious, security, Islamism, respect for authority or terrorism. What, then, can serve such a salmigondis who does not seriously deal with any of the topics raised? While the country bruised by the crisis of the covid -19 needs cohesion, you make a law of division. With this calculation, you expect to reap some electoral benefits by pointing the finger at our Muslim compatriots and blowing on bad embers, of which we know well in France what terrible fires they can rekindle. Don't count on us to put an ounce of coal on these dangerous embers. Yet, as we demonstrated at first reading, we were ready to take Emmanuel Macron's speech to the Walls seriously. He pointed to some of the real causes of separatism that we observe, such as the abandonment of the working-class neighbourhoods, where the Republic's promise has no longer been fulfilled. By removing this subject, your text condemns itself to the total inefficiency. There is nothing in it to address discrimination, racism and sometimes daily sprains of equality between citizens. It is, however, from the President's very confession, the fuel of all separatist speeches. Nothing about inequalities, at a time when the Tirole-Blanchard report is concerned about the time bomb they constitute. Your government seems to retain proposals from these economists that are only the most consistent with its liberal slope. Nor is there anything to tackle the social separatism that leads to poverty in the same cities and to shelter the most affluent in the same neighbourhoods. Immerse yourself in the abyss that now separates certain territories, beautiful Parisian neighborhoods on one side and those of the Seine-Saint-Denis on the other, where I have lived for several decades and where I raised my children. Don't you see that this is where the deepest separatism lies? Finally, hear the words of Jean Jaurès, since he is now quoted more often than it seems to be understood: "The Republic must be secular and social, it will remain secular because it has been able to be social. » Nothing, therefore, to undo the ghettos or to fight against the breaches of republican equality suffered by territories like mine, which the public services have gradually deserted. However, it is in these neighbourhoods that public services are the most ardently desired and the most necessary. Finally, nothing about school, which is less and less the place of social emancipation but more and more the place of social reproduction, that of assignment. The public school continues to weaken in our country, while it is the first of the republican promises. I assure you that, in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, as unfortunately elsewhere in France, the weakening of the public school does much more for the discredit of the Republic than many separatist speeches. In Seine-Saint-Denis, a student will have the equivalent of an entire school year without a teacher between the CP and the third, for lack of replacements. While – that's a figure I got last week – the population growth of the Seine-Saint-Denis continues to grow, at the next start of the year, 1300 children from this department will flee the public school. A mother told me recently, bill in support, that she had paid for six months private lessons to her fifth child, for lack of a mathematics teacher for more than six months. And, all in all, she will register her child in private school, because it will come to her at about the same price as the private lessons she used to remedy the deficiencies of the public school. This is the reality, these are elements that say better than all discourses what nourishes despair. This is the serious, useful debate, which we could have had and which would have put the separatist discourses and those who profess them on the back. Instead, you will again instrumentalize the legislative debate to launch the 2022 campaign and triangulate until more thirsty to install by all means the duel between Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. With Gramsci, we warn you: moral defeats always precede political defeats. For all these reasons, the GDR Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u148	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u149	If we are debating this text this evening in a new reading, it is because in the autumn of 2020 a teacher, Samuel Paty, was murdered, beheaded. In France, in the twenty-first century, in France, a country heir to the Enlightenment, this professor was murdered because he taught freedom, the strength of freedom. This is where this text is at stake: to lay dykes, safeguards to eliminate this threat that slowly gangrene our society, our territories through violence, intimidation, submission. In delivering this speech, I would like to have an emotional thought not only for the 270 dead and 900 wounded, victims and martyrs of Islamism in France, but also for those who, resisting everyday life, are fighting every day against this obscurantism which threatens us and which, for our fellow citizens, is the first of their concerns. As a symbol of these resistors – I want to pay tribute to her tonight from the top of this rostrum – I am once again thinking of young Mila, threatened with death for standing up to Islamism, for using her freedom of conscience, her freedom of speech, in the freshness of this youth that guides her. To quote his name is to show the world that national representation wants to be at its side in the face of the agents of hatred. No, she's not alone. No, these barbarians can't win his freedom. Her words, in an interview a few days ago, are chilling: she evokes her dark future, the fact that the Republic cannot, does not know how to protect her and did not protect her. The Republic, Madam Minister Delegate, must protect her, this young girl must live freely. Where are these associations that are so vigilant about everyone's rights to support it? They are fearlessly and dramatically absent, while freedom is not defined in pieces: it is one, whole, indivisible. Yes, the Republic has a duty to stand alongside these fighters of secularism and freedom, these new Mariannes. The Republic has a duty to push back the Islamists who want to silence it. The Republic has a duty to put an end to the political and religious demands which want to weaken our republican model, to change France, to transform our way of life which is the heir of a civilization, a civilization, does not displease some, I say here, Judeo-Christian, who has shaped, forged what we are over centuries and millennia. Let us finally open our eyes: in families, in schools, in universities, in hospitals, in associations, in public services, in swimming pools, on our beaches, the Islamists conquered souls, territories and wanted to submit to us. Yes, Islamism is moving forward. The figures reflect this situation, which is particularly worrying and even worrying: 74 per cent of young Muslims report putting their religious beliefs above the values of the Republic. So yes, the urgency – and this text should have been the framework for it – is to put an end to, a firm, resolute halt, determined to this advance of political Islamism. In this context, the Senate had opportunely adopted particularly relevant provisions, which we had, Annie Genevard, Julien Ravier and myself, as well as many others of our colleagues, defended ardently but which you had all refused at first reading. The Senate had the courage you didn't have. Unfortunately, these measures have all been removed by the special committee that you are chairing, Mr. President de Rugy. I am thinking of the ban on wearing veils and ostentatious religious signs for school attendants. How could you accept that, Madam Minister Delegate, who are so attached to women's rights and freedoms? How could you accept that we leave girls veiled in our country? The Senate objected, but you went back to that provision. Of course, we will try to reintroduce it, because it is a principle of common sense. I am also thinking of the possibility, for the internal rules of swimming pools and public swimming areas, of prohibiting the wearing of burkini, which is a standard of Islamic proselytism, as well as the prohibition of the wearing by users of ostensible religious signs in public services, in particular at the university, or the possibility of suspending family allowances in the event of school absenteeism. All these measures would have made it possible to combat separatism better. You have consistently opposed it. This text is also silent on a problem that cannot be dissociated from the will to affirm our republican principles: if we do not fight illegal immigration, that we do not have the capacity to assimilate the values of the Republic, we will maintain these ferments of separatism. The text is completely silent on immigration issues. It is also silent about the school, while some public schools can no longer accommodate Jewish students or cannot call themselves "Samuel Paty" to pay tribute to this teacher. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Marie-France Lorho and Emmanuelle Ménard also applaud]] There is only one lukewarm water net left of this text, an addition of measuring devices that removes all the courageous measures of the Senate, a text that is in no way commensurate with the dangers that threaten us. In the face of Islamism, this power and majority are unable to translate into action the strong and martial speech of the President of the Republic or the Minister of the Interior. This mismatch between your words and your actions, which is the hallmark of this power, renders the public word and the action of those who govern secret: it nourishes their rejection. This gap is also no stranger to yesterday's results: many French people have lost confidence in those who govern us, because they refuse to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u150	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u151	We're here for the second time to look at this bill. While some progress has been made in the text on women's rights, particularly in committee, such as the impossibility of benefiting from a tax advantage for a legal person convicted of obstructing the abortion, I am concerned about its real objectives. Chapter III of the text aims to recall the prohibition of polygamy, sexual mutilation, forced marriages and virginity certificates, all of which are very important, but also very targeted, and which are already included in our legislative and legal arsenal. If, as you say, you wanted to guarantee in the marble of the law the rights of women, why is there nothing on the obligation to provide sex education or on consent, nothing on the fight against femicides or on gender-based cyber-harassment, nothing about all these inequalities that persist in companies and homes? No, you have preferred to target minority practices, in order to serve a political agenda far removed from that of women's rights. What is the commonality between polygamy, virginity certificates and forced marriages? These three practices are aimed exclusively at a certain community. But they are already prohibited by French law and the field associations have reminded you that to mention them again in the bill is counterproductive. Finally, they are very minority in France and statistics concerning them are dangerously overestimated. Thus, with regard to polygamy, different provisions of our law already allow it to be invoked in order to refuse or withdraw certain residence permits. The estimates used in the draft law were based on the number of residence permits issued to persons from countries affected by the practice. However, it is dangerous to consider that any person who comes from a country which authorizes him or her to accede to it. In fact, many studies tend to prove the opposite. Similarly, the method of calculating the number of forced marriages in France is also overestimated. The figure of 700,000 forced marriages per year is calculated on the basis of the total number of young women who would have been protected after the rise of the nubil age of girls in line with that of boys. This reasoning is obviously not tenable. As far as virginity certificates are concerned, let us remember that their issuance is already prohibited in France, which the Conseil national de l'ordre des médecins has also stressed. The lack of statistics on the reality of their release is eloquent. However, the granting of such a document, which is of no value, may enable young girls and women to prevent domestic violence, as the associations have reminded you. The new denunciation of these minority practices in the bill serves only one purpose: to endorse the growing security discourse in France. In doing so, you carefully ignore the other, no less serious, types of violence against women, and you identify as an enemy of equality between men and women anyone who offends against the latent racism of your policy. In truth, the measures contained in the bill, which you almost describe as feminist measures, stigmatize an entire community by avoiding the core of the subject: the lack of financial and human resources to enable the effective implementation of provisions already provided for by the law and an effective fight against violence against women. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] So, of course, I will not vote in favour of the bill. I will not even be able to support my amendments on this text because of the scheduled legislative time. However, I will continue to defend real progress towards equality between women and men by listening to the people concerned and the accompanying field associations. I will also verify, when we look at the next and last finance bill of the legislature, that resources commensurate with the stakes will finally be granted to the so-called grand cause of the quinquennium that would constitute the fight against violence against women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u152	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u153	"What we need to tackle is Islamist separatism. It is a conscious, theorized, politico-religious project, which is manifested in repeated deviations from the values of the Republic, which often results in the formation of a counter-society and whose manifestations are the de-schooling of children, the development of sports and community cultural practices which are the pretext for teaching principles that are not in conformity with the laws of the Republic. These words of the President of the Republic from his speech of the Walls sums up quite well the ideology and methods of Islamist separatism, the consequences of which are dramatic. During the first reading of the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, we all remembered the name of Samuel Paty, professor of history-geography at the Collège de Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, decapitated for wanting to teach his students freedom of expression. Since then, Stephanie Monfermé has lost her life in Rambouillet under the stabbing of an Islamist terrorist, simply because she worked in the police. Colleagues, the review of the bill in the Senate resulted in a very different version from the one previously adopted by the National Assembly, but the special commission engaged in a real demolition undertaking by deleting, clause after clause, the provisions added by the Senate. There is, however, one point on which the special commission has aligned itself with the Senate. It will have been enough for a mistake from the Senate, which removed a major amendment passed by the MPs with the support of the majority groups, to get into the breach, under the eyes of the Associate Minister for Sport – who had not been seen during the first reading of the bill... This amendment was tabled by the rapporteur Éric Poulliat and myself and dealt with clause 25 of the bill. It reflected the consensus that exists on the particularly sensitive subject of separatism in sport, which is the subject of an appealless diagnosis and a shared solution, despite the divisions between the majority and the oppositions. This amendment provided for giving the prefects the power to grant accreditation to sports associations, in order to better combat separatism in sports clubs, in accordance with the recommendation made in our joint report, Eric Poulliat and I, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, on public services in the face of radicalisation. I regret that the angelism of the Deputy Minister has prevailed over the pragmatism of our proposals and over parliamentary work. However, radicalisation in sport is one of the first factors in radicalisation in France. Already in 2015, a note from the Central Territorial Intelligence Service (SCRT) explained that sports clubs, yet places of integration and secularism, were not spared by "this drift, once confined to a few clubs and which is now in constant progression". In its 2018 report, entitled "State of play in the penetration of fundamentalist Islam in France", the Directorate-General for Internal Security (DGSI) considers that radicalisation in sport is a worrying phenomenon, which is becoming more and more widespread over time, to the point of becoming the first factor of radicalisation in France. The report documents a phenomenon that has developed in recent years, with sports clubs openly mentioning their ethnic or religious orientation with a view to increasing their recruitment and establishing a homogeneous associative basis, from the gender and religious point of view. However, the report explains that "sport has remained outside the radars of the state intelligence services for a long time, which apparently had not taken this phenomenon to its proper extent". How, therefore, can we agree to entrust the federations with the responsibility of granting authorisations to associations, which have been left free to join them? There is an urgent need to restore the State's capacity to grant such approvals or not. Prior to 2015, the prefect and his services were able to control the applicants for the accreditation and screen the mentors. Today, it is enough to be affiliated with a federation to obtain approval, at the risk of having it withdrawn a posteriori. In these circumstances, not giving prefectures the power to grant accreditation to sports associations would be tantamount to denial as well as laxity. The only argument put forward by the Minister responsible for sports in order not to alter the current situation is that the prefectures do not have the staff to carry out the checks of associations. But then who will have to bear this heavy responsibility in the federations? Are territorial intelligence officers, who hold all the information necessary for these controls, in federations or prefectures? Remember, moreover, the reluctance of the sports world to bring up the information: clubs and federations favour the number of members and affiliated clubs and the results during sports competitions. This is demonstrated by the position of sports associations and federations in regional committees: when asked to participate in the fight against separatism, the answers were unanimously negative on the grounds that they were "not auxiliary to the police". The 2018 DGSI report states that 829 radicalized individuals are infiltrated into sports clubs and that 27% of them openly support jihadism and apologies for terrorism. The links between radicalisation and sport are ancient and recognized: Abdelkader Merah radicalised with his younger brother, Mohammed Merah, at the City Stade des Izards in Toulouse; Amedy Coulibaly was, on the other hand, the French champion of Thai boxing and coach in a gym in Grigny.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u155	In September 2020, Le Parisien published an edifying survey of a sports club in Savigny-le-Temple in which carpets are installed on the tatami to allow members to pray. These take place even in front of the children. In this club, women and Jews are obviously not welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u157	Last example: Zelimkhan Khadjiev, a member of France's fight team, who was qualified for the Tokyo Olympic Games, has just been suspended for four years for doping. He invoked a procedural flaw in his appeal against the Arbitral Tribunal for Sport (TAS), because the person who accompanied him in the doping control room was a woman! If the TAS rejected its appeal in May 2021, has a disciplinary procedure been implemented by the Fédération française de lutte et disciplines associés? Have the departments of the Ministry of Sport dealt with the discriminatory attitude of this high-level athlete towards women? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of radicalization in sport is not the black spot, but the gaping black hole in this bill. The situation is serious, far too serious, not to allow the prefects to take up the problem at arm's length by assuming the function of issuing approvals to associations. In any event, we can no longer leave the responsibility for this matter to the only deputy minister responsible for sports. The fight against separatism, radicalization and terrorism is the responsibility of the Government as a whole; it is the sole culprit of immobilism in the event of a further attack. You won't be able to say you didn't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u158	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u159	Let us be clear: there is no excuse for fundamentalism, terror and radical Islamism. Nothing will ever excuse the infamous murder of a journalist, a teacher, a police officer or any citizen. Nothing will ever excuse the harassment in a pack in the name of the false misappropriation of a religion or ideology. Combating these abuses and those who maintain them must mobilize us at every moment and it is important that the law provides the tools and framework for this action. That is the purpose of the bill, several of which deserve to be welcomed. I am thinking, in particular, of the fight against female circumcision and forced marriages, the increased protection of public officials and elected officials, and the fight against illegal schools. While concerns have been expressed about the government project, for some rightly, our assembly held the rope during the work of the special commission, returning to the sometimes revolting provisions introduced by the Senate right. While defending republican principles is a cause that must bring our fellow citizens together, once again a certain right has confused the fight against separatism with the fight against certain believers. I have already had the opportunity to stress this: I regret that the text ignores the essential social aspect which must accompany the fight against extremism. If the Republic is weakened, everyone knows that it is also because a large part of the population, concentrated in some territories, struggles to see the reality of the republican promise. "The Republic must be secular and social but will remain secular because it has been social. With one sentence, Jean Jaurès pointed out in 1904 what still remains, more than a century later, a formidable challenge for the Republic. In his speech of the Walls, the Head of State did not err in saying: "We ourselves have built our own separatism. It is that of our neighborhoods, it is the ghettoization that our republic, with initially the best intentions in the world, has allowed". I think it is important to remember, however, that if this separatism exists, it remains that of a minority. It must be combated all the more vigorously because it penalizes the silent majority of the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods who, in an unprecedented mix of routes, origins, backgrounds and nationalities, live together in accordance with our laws and values. The President of the Republic further pointed out to the Walls that "prohibiting is not enough" and that "it is necessary to act at the root". These are beliefs that I share. How can we effectively combat separatism without tackling the challenge of social mix, without fighting discrimination and racism, without guaranteeing equal access to public services and rights in each territory, without finally making equal opportunities a reality? These are the questions that we are obliged to answer and which Parliament must deal with. They are at the heart of the bill that I tabled last weekend, aimed at sealing the Republican Pact by strengthening equal opportunities. In the face of those who feed divisions and fall back on themselves, our best weapon is to make live our republican promise: freedom, equality, fraternity, for all, for all, everywhere. It is this fragile balance that allows us to make France and that we must take care of. In conclusion, I would like to invoke the words of Abbé Pierre, who, if he were a religious, was also a parliamentarian and a fervent republican: "Integralism is a refuge for poverty because it offers a burst of hope to those who have nothing. Let their evil disappear, and fundamentalism will lose its troops. » [[Mrs Albane Gaillot and Mr Stéphane Little applaud]] If we are to avoid being naive about the real issues of regalism, these words remind us, like those of Jaurès, how the fight against fundamentalism and the fight for social justice and equal opportunities are linked. We in this House must never forget this, especially in this troubled time, in this time of crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u160	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-28-O1320.u161	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, in further reading, of the draft law strengthening respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism The meeting is adjourned.
