ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill by Mrs Justine Benin and several of her colleagues renovating the governance of the public drinking water and sanitation service in Guadeloupe (No 3669, 3780).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u2	This morning, the Assembly began the discussion of the articles of the bill, with a series of amendments under joint discussion to Article 1, No. 32, 21, 28, 20, 27, 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u3	We shall continue our consideration of Amendments Nos 32, 21, 28, 20, 27, 19. The Government's amendment No. 32 was defended. I call Mrs Maud Petit to support Amendments Nos 21, 20 and 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u4	They were tabled by my colleague Max Mathiasin. Amendment No 21 aims to exclude the transfer of liabilities arising from the former activity of the EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – members of SIAEAG, the inter-municipal water supply and sanitation union of Guadeloupe, at the time of its dissolution and to secure the economic viability of the open joint trade union by limiting the amount of its expenses. Amendment No 20 proposes to bring together, before the creation of the new trade union on 1 September 2021, the current water and sanitation actors to amicably resolve the situation of the staff and the assets and liabilities of the authorities responsible for the management of the public water and sanitation services. In the absence of agreement, the representative of the State in Guadeloupe would determine the distribution of assets and liabilities. Finally, Amendment No 19 seeks to provide for the adoption of the statutes of the open joint water and sanitation union in Guadeloupe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u5	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendments Nos 28 and 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u6	Amendment No 28 is partly satisfied with the Government's amendment No. 32. I have heard Mr. Minister's explanations on the framework for debt settlement by the IEPs; I would like to point out the particular situation of the Greater South Caribbean community, which is marked by enormous indebtedness, but above all by the presence of an autonomous government, in this case that of the commune of Trois-Rivières. These autonomous authorities must be taken into account. These are the only municipalities where water pays water in Guadeloupe... Amendment No 27 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u7	Mrs Justine Benin, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u8	We are dealing with an important issue that I mentioned in general discussion, namely the transfer of financial debts to the new joint union. The minister has given us answers: we must strike a balance between the continuity of structures and the concern for the financial viability of the new open joint union. The Government's amendment proposes a balanced and consistent scheme with the modelling carried out by the Guadeloupe Water Board in 2019-2020. It is logical that the financial debts of the currently competent EPCIs should be transferred to the open joint union, since the union takes over the assets necessary for the operation of a service to which these debts have contributed. However, suppliers' debts, customers' debts and tax and social debts are excluded. We were expecting strong announcements from the Minister; he met these expectations in general discussion. I therefore give a favourable opinion on the Government's amendment; As the other amendments are satisfied, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u9	The Minister for Overseas Affairs has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u10	Request for the withdrawal of the other amendments in favour of Amendment No 32; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u11	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u12	I am withdrawing my amendments, but I would like the minister to give us details, if possible, on human resources. We have, above all, insisted on the financial side of the case, but it is important to talk also about the situation of the personnel concerned and to respond to their concern, which, although not justified, remains legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u13	Do you also withdraw your amendments, Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u14	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u15	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u16	You are right, Mrs Petit: before the Meridian break, we focused mainly on the issue of supplier debts, but as far as personnel are concerned, let's be clear: I have already said it in the gallery, and I say it here, we must find a solution for each person, with a very humane and very social approach. As much as supplier debt involves large sums of money, both the strategy of the future open joint union, in terms of human resources, will have to look to the future in order to ensure an organisation of staff that is viable in the financial field. But for what has existed so far, no one should be left behind. Certain agents may be subject to mobility between EPCI; I know that when we have technical expertise in the engineering of drinking water and sewerage systems, we are versatile on other tasks. The state-created cell will allow us to ensure a solution for each person. Of course, the SMO will need arms, heads, experienced people in the field and the question, and most agents are destined to join it. But it is not up to us to decide: it will be up to the local elected representatives of each EPCI to decide who to delegate. I would add, when I turn to the three Members of Parliament in Guadeloupe, that certain agents are not far from retirement, and that we must find a humane solution that will enable everyone to finish their careers. Needless to say, I do not want personnel issues to be instrumentalized in the political arena. These officers who do their work at SIAEAG, but who are not at the head, have sometimes been unnecessarily scared. Let's not make them take on a responsibility that is not theirs, it would be too easy to make them pay for the broken pots. In order not to abandon anyone, I see no alternative but to take the list of agents and propose a solution in front of each name. I can't say that more clearly. State services will be mobilised; I do not want the question of personnel to be an obstacle to the restoration of a public service of drinking water, sanitation and, from now on, rainwater in Guadeloupe, let alone a social and human pain or pain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u17	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u18	Minister, I trust you very much. I know that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and the State will accompany the new institution in the restructuring of the debt, even if the discussions are complicated. However, I would like to draw your attention to the price of water. I have a thought for the Guadeloupees, for whom the price of water is already high. We know that water, our blue gold, is indispensable for life and human health; But we also need it for the 80% of French biodiversity in the overseas countries and territories. A balance must therefore be struck. The current law does not prioritize water uses: the environmental code gives priority to drinking water supply, health and safety, but not to agriculture or industry. It is therefore necessary to reconcile the different uses of water, and the future establishment may have to deal with the issue. In any case, I am delighted to see that we are dealing with the Guadeloupees and the issue of water, which is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u19	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u20	I would like to bounce back on the question of the price of water. As I said earlier, the commune of Trois-Rivières, of which I have been mayor for many years, is the only commune in Guadeloupe to own its own water system. The only difference is that there is no intermediary, no multinational; It's a self-governing government. It is enough to repeat the same principle and we will be able to lower the price of water.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u21	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 5 and 6 are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u22	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u23	Article 2 enshrines the principle of setting up an advisory commission whose need to restore the lost confidence in our fellow citizens, all of whom are water users, has been well understood. I would like to take this opportunity to recall how fragile our territories are at times. It is not the potential that is lacking, minister, especially for the water resource, which is known to be abundant in some territories, but the listening deficit. It is not by chance that in 2009 the Overseas Economic Development Act established the National Policy Assessment Commission of the Overseas State. The objective of NEPEOM was to improve listening to the claims of the Overseas Territories. This advisory commission, whose role as an observatory was recognised by all, was simply abolished by the recent law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as the ASAP law, which amounts to invisivising our territories and their problems further. As we call for special attention in order to improve the quality of the relationship between the Government and the overseas countries and territories, I urge you, Minister, not to consider the problem of access to drinking water as an isolated situation. Deprivation of water for 20% of the inhabitants of Guyana, mercury in rivers, the problem of chlordecone poisoning in Martinique and Guadeloupe – and perhaps also in French Guiana – are major subjects that will have to be dealt with in full transparency and with the necessary resources, in so far as they are largely a State responsibility. Minister, we know that we can count on your support and support to quickly find solutions to these problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u24	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 11, 12, 23 and 13, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u25	These amendments were tabled by Max Mathiasin. Amendment No 11 sets out the precise number of members of each category represented in the Single Union Supervisory Committee, as well as Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 23. Amendment No 13 is intended to include in the supervisory committee representatives of the staff of the members of the open joint union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u26	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u27	On Amendment No 11, which seeks to change the composition of the Supervisory Committee, the Committee delivered an unfavorable opinion. I would remind you that in the Committee on Laws, we have rewritten Article 2 to transform the Consultative Commission for Local Public Services into a Supervisory Commission; I suggest you stay with this writing. Our first objective is to give users a way to control the good governance of the new set; I consider that the device currently provided for satisfaction. I will be more open to the presence of environmental protection associations. It is difficult, in fact, to effectively manage a water distribution system without taking into account the impacts of sampling on the environment. In a reasonable number, these associations will bring a useful word to the Supervisory Committee; That is why I would like to inform you in advance that Amendment No 14 will receive a favourable opinion from me in my personal capacity. In the meantime, I ask for the four amendments to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u28	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u29	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, even if I did not want to prolong the debates earlier, be reassured: the way in which water is managed in the form of a municipality which you know so well for having long been the mayor, which you mentioned, is not at all called into question by this text. I will be vigilant, including in the Senate: Let us avoid any policy approach, these issues must continue to be the responsibility of local elected officials. As we said earlier, the governance model is absolutely nothing bad in itself. Anyway, it's not up to me to decide. On Amendments Nos 11, 12, 23 and 13, I call for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. We will have the opportunity to give a favourable opinion to other contributions by Mr Mathiasin or Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, which will help to improve the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u30	Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u31	I welcome this important progress. For years, trust has been broken. The elected representatives, while remaining within one another, even if they are not solely responsible for it, may have suggested that they alone could manage it, even though users must have a voice in the matter. This progress, which comes after lengthy negotiations, meetings and exchanges with the many user associations, will allow co-management with the elected officials in charge. In the deliberative and consultative fields, not only the users, but also the consular chambers – Chamber of Crafts and Crafts, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Agriculture – will be represented. Such co-management is likely to restore confidence in the water management of the entire population of Guadeloupe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u32	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u33	I withdraw the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u34	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 10 and 30. I call Mrs Maud Petit to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u35	It is simply intended to clarify the categories of associations represented in the monitoring committee, in this case the associations of users of the public water and sanitation services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u36	Amendment No 30 by Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u37	I call Mrs Maud Petit to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u38	In order to preserve the water resource, this amendment tends to include representatives of environmental protection associations in the Monitoring Committee. Among other things, the joint trade unions carry out general study missions to promote sustainable management of the aquatic environment and to integrate drinking water and sanitation policy into the main sustainable development issues of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u39	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u40	I have already indicated my favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u41	I would now like to point out that, on the whole text, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and allied Democrats for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u42	We propose that the parliamentarians of the territory as well as the president of the association of the mayors of Guadeloupe be members of the supervisory committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u43	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u44	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u45	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u46	Advice of wisdom... favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u47	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Positive wisdom?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u48	That's where we recognize our minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u49	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 15, 16, 17 and 18, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u50	The first signatory is Max Mathiasin. Amendment No 15 seeks to clarify the length of the term of office of the members of the Supervisory Committee, to be extended to six years, with reference to the term of office of local elected officials. Amendment No 16 is of common sense: it is intended to provide that the vote of the chairman of the Supervisory Committee will prevail in the event of equality in a vote. Amendment No 17 is intended to allow the Supervisory Committee to hear "any person who may provide information relevant to the performance of his or her duties. » Finally, Amendment No 18, which is also of common sense, is drafting: it would be up to the trade union committee to report to the supervisory committee on the work it has carried out, not the other way around, since the commission's task is to exercise a right of control over the activities of the joint union through its decision-making body.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u51	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u52	Amendment No 15 aims to clarify that the terms of office will be six years renewable and the functions free of charge. It is indeed consistent to align the duration of the terms of office of the members of the Supervisory Committee, even if we could have left the statutes to decide. Moreover, it was clear in my mind that these functions were necessarily free of charge. In the Committee on Laws, we delivered an unfavourable opinion, considering this amendment to be satisfactory; But if the National Assembly decided to make these points explicit, I would not see any major inconvenience as rapporteur; In my personal capacity, I am even in favour of it. The aim of Amendment No 16 is to give the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee a casting vote in the event of a tie. During the commissions, we found that all user associations have been demanding this since 2009. My opinion is therefore favourable. Amendment No 17, which is intended to allow the Supervisory Committee to hear any person of its choice, is obviously of common sense; favourable opinion. On the other hand, I call for Amendment No 18 to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u53	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u54	I will also have a favourable opinion on Amendments Nos 15, 16 and 17 – these advances will enable this committee to function and complement it. On the other hand, Amendment No 18, as drafted, could create trouble and complicate matters; What is more, it is in some respects already satisfied. I therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u55	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u56	I withdraw Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u57	Amendment No 22 by Mr Max Mathiasin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u58	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u59	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u60	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u61	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u62	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u63	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u64	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u65	I would not like our work to conclude without speaking of a subject raised by our colleague Gabriel Serville earlier, that of access to drinking water in Guyana. As our colleague pointed out, between 15% and 20% of the Guyanese population does not have access to drinking water, and the situation is similar to that we are dealing with today. The problem is all the more serious because it concerns people living in peri-urban areas and villages that are often isolated, which poses a major health risk in the crisis we are going through. Beyond that, the stakes are the image that we send back from our territories, whether it be Guyana or Guadeloupe, and their tourist attraction, as Gabriel Serville said perfectly. Such a situation also poses a significant risk of an accumulation of disputes under the Drinking Water Directive. I would therefore very much like to see a reflection on access to drinking water in Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u66	The floor is for Mr Vincent Ledoux, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u67	First of all, I would like to commend the quality of our discussions since this morning, such as the work of the rapporteur and the Government's replies. This is the example of coordination that goes in the right direction, that of redressing a deep and ancient injustice, by allowing every Guadeloupian to have access to drinking water. The planned system of governance should also be welcomed: the joint union would involve all actors in the territory, and the supervisory board would allow civil society to be involved, which we need. For too long, civil society has been the victim of the lack of access to or interruption of the public service of drinking water; It can be seen as a form of reparation that is only justice. More generally, on such an important subject, it is better to involve all those concerned. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u68	For the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, Mr Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u69	Is it necessary to remember that water is life? We have an emotional thought for our compatriots in Guadeloupe, who have for too long experienced problems of access to this resource. That is why we believe that this bill is necessary and deserves special attention. We have heard the proposals of our colleagues who have not been accepted here, as well as the recriminations of local elected officials that this proposal does not go far enough. However, as the GDR group does not wish to obstruct the proper course of action, it will make the choice of wisdom and abstain from this bill. I shall end by thanking Jean-François Mbaye for drawing our attention to the fact that Guyana was experiencing a similar problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u71	For the La République group on the move, the floor is Mr Olivier Serva.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u72	It was therefore a matter of renovating water governance – drinking water and sanitation – in Guadeloupe. The question was whether the National Assembly would be able to defend a single governance offering a comprehensive solution to technical problems: the answer is yes. Should we consider extending the powers to "large" waters in order to avoid flooding? The answer is yes. At the same time, it was necessary to ensure that local jurisdiction was respected and that the proposed law did not constitute an obstacle to the free administration of territorial communities. Is that so? The open joint union will be governed by the EPCI and the local competences will therefore be preserved, supported, moreover, by the department and the region. Again, the answer is yes. Another important question is: will supplier debts not interfere with the action of the SMO? The answer is no, since they will not be affected; These debts will be treated in good intelligence between the State and its partners in order to ensure that they are digested and digestable, playing on the debts and on the goodwill of each other. As for the employees of SIAEAG, were they threatened by its dissolution? The answer is no since the minister has promised solutions, wage earner per employee. Finally, did the elected representatives have a role to play in ensuring this governance within themselves? The answer is no, since a representative of the Advisory Committee will participate in governance, who will have a voice in the chapter. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u73	For the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, the floor is Mr Erwan Balanant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u74	Thanks to Justine Benin for this bill, which is in the collective interest of the Guadeloupees, with respect for the local elected representatives and with the aim of finding a balanced solution to the issue of debt. We have taken our responsibilities with this beautiful text, which will make progress and will, I hope, guarantee this right to water for all the citizens of Guinea-Bissau quickly, in line with the objective of sustainable development No. 6. We have done useful work, for water is precious everywhere, even in places where it is abundant. So it is not a simple subject, it must be approached with delicacy and attention. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Dem Group, which welcomes this progress, thanks all the groups for their contributions, and especially Max Mathiasin, who is not with us today, but who, through Maud Petit's heart and voice, was well present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u75	For the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u76	Thank you to the rapporteur for defending this extremely important bill. The group of France has repeatedly launched an alert on these water problems, particularly in Guadeloupe. Water is essential to life. Without water, there is no economy, no society, no human beings, no ecosystem. Yet water is enslaved to private interests, and that is why I will be conducting a committee of inquiry on this issue, and in particular on what happened in Guadeloupe. However, we will abstain on this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u77	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u78	Because you're a politician!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u79	... because it does not contain any of the three guarantees that we demand, on the debt, which I fear will be paid by the poorest users, on the workers of the SIAEAG who, let us recall, are on strike and have not obtained any guarantee, on the fact, that the water will be managed in a transparent and democratic way. You have explained, minister, that no private actor was interested: we understand them, since Véolia has absolutely looted everything! They arrived with 18 million surpluses and left with 100 million debts, without knowing where the money went, leaving a waste of water so huge that no private actor wants to take care of it. Because of all these shortcomings, we will abstain. I join Gabriel Serville in saying that our country can be ashamed of not being able to guarantee hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens the inalienable right to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u80	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u81	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 89 Number of votes cast 83 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 83 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u82	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u83	At this moment I have a thought for my territory of Guadeloupe and for all those who were waiting for this unique water union, since the Great Strike of 2009, at the call of the LKP, the collective against "profiting". I would also like to thank those Members who, on every bench, have contributed to a very sensitive and painful subject, which has long been a political issue, but which we, together with Senator Dominique Théophile, wanted to address with a certain degree of sensitivity by focusing on technical issues, governance and organization. I thank the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, who trusted me to report this bill. I would also like to thank the Government that has assumed its responsibilities with regard to the debt – bank debt or debt suppliers – but also the staff, since you promised, Minister, that no agent would be left on the tile. As you said, there will be no obstacles to the free administration of local authorities. This is important because other projects were on the table, including those of local elected representatives. Senator Dominique Théophile and I would like to thank the major communities, the region, the department, Ary Chalus, Josette Borel-Lincertin and all the presidents of EPCI, who have made substantial efforts and, for the most important of the communities, show solidarity in the renewal work. Together, we have laid the foundation for this unique structure, which will allow funding to be pooled and legally secured to ensure its economic viability, so that, over the next ten years, we will end the problems of drinking water supply and sanitation. Finally, I thank my colleagues Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe, Olivier Serva and Max Mathiasin, who are physically absent but who, I know, is currently watching us on his computer, the members of all sides of the Law Commission and the Government which has been able to provide answers on a major subject for Guadeloupe and its population. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, IDU-I and Activité ens]] I say this again with great emotion: thanks to you, thanks to the Guadeloupees, thanks to all the local elected officials who have been able to show responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u84	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u85	Since the end of the cumulation of mandates, parliamentarians have often been brushed, described in a certain press as above ground, disconnected from the realities of the ground. It is said that you would not have to interfere with what belongs to local and regional authorities. Well, we have all just demonstrated, in our respective functions with our various political sensitivities, that this was not the case and that, thanks to intelligent co-construction, first between local elected representatives and the various parliamentarians of Guadeloupe, then between your different groups and the Government, we have led to a legislative work that makes progress. You will have understood this in the course of our debates, and contrary to what some might suggest, the status quo on the public service of drinking water in Guadeloupe was no longer possible, and the major theoretical debates on decentralization and the freedom of communities end up encountering the local reality: what can we answer to our fellow citizens who, for years, have been paying their bills and taxes but are dealing with a failing public service? That being said, it is not a question of sweeping the theoretical questions with a back of hand – and I thank the two Members who have reminded us about Guyana. We are at a crossroads between a very strong demand for freedom on the part of the communities, which demand respect and trust for the actors on the ground, and an egalitarian demand: why does the protection of the water resource, whether it is the ecological transition, the dedicated public services or its price, give rise to as many disparities in the territory? I call on all parliamentarians to question this point and the great decentralization movement which, since 1982, has transferred a lot of powers to the local level – some of you, moreover, are calling for even more, while criticising the state a lot – and leads us to bring here or there some corrections, when some adventures go wrong and force the legislator to intervene. This is the case with water in Guadeloupe. Is this the failure of local elected officials? No – I told you in the general discussion. Is it for national representation and the Government to help a territory to solve a governance problem? Yes, and that's all the meaning of what we've just done. I shall conclude on two points. The first is a v?u, the one that political politics does not take over too much of this issue in the context of the next election deadlines. I take note of your group's abstention, Mrs Panot, and I hope that the issue of water in Guadeloupe or overseas will not be overly politicized at national level: I sometimes wonder about the intentions of each other and I have heard you about the big water companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The second concerns the future of water resources in Guyana and Mayotte, which are also experiencing major difficulties, which are also due, unlike Guadeloupe, to the production of drinking water and not only to its distribution. This makes the problem even more complex and raises again the question of the role of the state alongside communities. In any event, we will also be there, thanks in particular to the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u86	Thank you, Minister, I myself was very happy to chair this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u87	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u88	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u89	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Stéphane Baudu, Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert and others to reform the system of compensation for natural disasters (No 3688, 3785).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u90	Mr Stéphane Baudu, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u91	Our natural disaster compensation system has not been reformed for almost forty years. Act No. 82-600 of 13 July 1982, which was also the result of a parliamentary initiative, created this special, original regime, which involves public and private actors. For the past forty years, it has protected our fellow citizens from the consequences of the natural risks to which our territories are inevitably exposed. Few countries have a comparable regime. Its general framework, based on prior recognition of the state of natural disaster by the State, organizes the contribution of insurers with precision. In this respect, the CATNAT regime is an opportunity, since it guarantees our citizens protection against natural risks. The recent years have made the rise of climate change sadly visible. Induced by our own activities, it threatens human societies by increasing the frequency and intensity of natural disasters. Thus, while our national territory was already undergoing a high degree of disintegration, we can already observe an increase in the scale and redundancy of certain natural phenomena, in particular floods and droughts. Climate change reveals and aggravates the weaknesses of our CATNAT regime, which has been frozen since 1982. It is now up to us to bring it into a new era, to face climate change, without weakening the protection of our fellow citizens. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have seen the limits of this regime in your own territories. You have been able to observe the tragic sequence that a natural disaster triggers: the violence of nature, the shock of the tragedy, and then the silent journey of the combatant that the victims are taking to obtain compensation. In the face of opaque and lengthy procedures, these homes find themselves in disarray and share the same sense of impotence and injustice. In my department of Loir-et-Cher, many people face the pernicious consequences of drought, especially when rainy episodes are added to it. The withdrawal-swelling of clay soils causes ground movements; This phenomenon is distinguished by the effects on habitat that are difficult to characterize, and by the late onset of damage, which occurs months or even years after the drought. Drought-rehydration episodes affect almost 70% of metropolitan territory, like the severe episode of 2018. Faced with the warnings of the victims and mayors of my constituency, I decided to carry out work on the compensation of natural disasters, convinced of the urgent need to reform a regime whose weaknesses have been highlighted in recent years. I know that many of my parliamentary colleagues share my conviction, as demonstrated by the work of Senator Nicole Bonnefoy, as well as the initiatives of Members of Parliament on all sides. In this regard, I welcome the action of our colleague Vincent Ledoux, who has been very active on the subject, in particular on this problem of drought and rehydration. All the actors were waiting for this reform, as I was able to verify during the hearings I conducted. The victims, often formed in association, called for improvement of the regime, for greater transparency and efficiency. Insurers asked for these developments, in order to strengthen the protection of their policyholders and to reduce the litigation caused by the ambiguities of the current system. Finally, the public authorities, whose intervention is central to this system of compensation, were aware of the limits of the regime. Consequently, all the consultations and hearings have led to this text, which I believe is balanced and which we can adopt before the end of the parliamentary term. This bill is a double ambition. On the one hand, it aims to improve procedures, to make them more transparent and more protective for our citizens; On the other hand, it tends to prepare for the future, by initiating a reflection on our prevention policies. Our first challenge is to strengthen the confidence of the French in this regime, ensuring its full transparency. The feeling of abandonment shared by the victims is primarily due to the opacity of the procedures; not to understand procedures and decisions is to remain in unbearable uncertainty, which prevents the serene reconstruction of what nature has destroyed. Article 1 therefore requires that decisions be reasoned and that remedies be made explicit. Similarly, section 4 of the Act establishes the existence of the inter-ministerial commission responsible for issuing an opinion on the recognition of the state of natural disaster. Created by Circular No 84-90 of 27 March 1984, the opacity of its operation and criteria is a source of criticism. Yet the government generally follows its advice to publish the CATNAT recognition order. It is precisely this order that conditions the compensation of insured persons. It is therefore not acceptable that such an important decision for so many affected households should remain misunderstood and not be fully transparent. I therefore propose to freeze in the law the existence of the interministerial commission, and to set up an advisory commission to study the relevance of the criteria it applies. The publication of an annual opinion will allow us to review regularly the criteria used to decide on the state of natural disasters; It is by guaranteeing transparency that we will strengthen the confidence of the French in the regime. In addition, in order to ensure an effective flow of information, Article 2 provides for the development of communication materials to explain the steps of the procedure to our citizens. It also aims to simplify the State's dialogue with local elected officials by establishing a CATNAT focal point within the prefectures. Today, when a tragedy occurs – as often happens – it is to the mayor that our fellow citizens turn: he is the main interlocutor of the victims, because he is responsible for filing the CATNAT recognition application. Logically, the inhabitants of the municipality concerned are waiting for the information and explanations they need. Yet, in the absence of an effective dialogue with the State services, he finds himself in the same disarray and impotence as his citizens. That is why this article aims to provide more support to mayors and to promote the flow of clear and transparent information. Our second challenge is to secure and simplify compensation for disaster victims. In this regard, the text proposes a more protective framework for affected households. In order to remedy the apparent inefficiency of certain repairs, Article 5 seeks first to make it compulsory to carry out work which would allow for the cessation of existing disorders. It then addresses the issue of time limits, which hinder access to compensation. The deadlines we are currently observing are too short to report a loss, and too long to obtain redress. That is why I propose to extend the deadline for reporting claims and to reduce the deadline for payment of compensation for the drought-rehydration phenomenon. Article 8 extends the time limit for recognition of the CNAT regime in the specific case of this hazard, where the occurrence of damage is often well after the occurrence of the phenomenon. In a spirit of justice and in order to protect our fellow citizens, Article 6 incorporates the emergency relocation costs of the victims into the amounts taken into account in the calculation of the compensation, and Article 3 removes the possibility of modulating the remaining deductible for the insured, depending on whether or not the municipality has a plan for the prevention of natural risks (PPRN). The current system is rightly experienced as an injustice, since the inhabitants can only have nothing to do with the existence of a prevention plan or not, but suffer the financial consequences. Finally, to open up a new era in the management of natural risks, the third challenge is not only to think of an ambitious prevention policy, but also its articulation with our compensation policies. Climate change requires this adaptation; Article 7 therefore provides for the submission to Parliament of a government report on the adaptation of preventive and compensatory measures to the specifics of the phenomenon of drought and soil rehydration. For this specific risk, the current arrangements will not suffice. However, we must highlight the contributions of the law of 23 November 2018 on housing, development and digital development, known as ELAN, which should allow for a better resilience of the new housing, while the compensation scheme known as CATNAT has provided a response to exceptional phenomena. Apart from these two situations, many existing buildings are or will be affected in the short term, without any financial accompaniment: I am thinking in particular of the houses built in the 1970s. It is therefore necessary to provide other preventive or curative responses: it is the issue of Article 7, which should invite us to take up the issue of prevention more broadly. In this regard, the recent budgeting of the Barnier Fund will provide Parliament with the opportunity to address the issue of public preventive policies when future financial laws are considered. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the ambition of this bill, adopted unanimously by the Committee on Finance. The proposed measures are very much expected. These developments are urgent and their impact on our citizens, who are major. Therefore, our responsibility is great: it is now up to us to improve this text for ever more transparency, efficiency and protection for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u92	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u93	Thank you very much for welcoming me to consider this bill, which deals with an exceptional issue, that of natural disasters. Exceptional, they are because of their scarcity, which makes it tempting to postpone any reform until later; But they are, above all, because of the damage they cause and which, each time, require a swift and strong response to those who have suffered tragically. More broadly, this text is an important marker for our civilizations. Whether it is the last days of Pompeii, the great Lisbon earthquake or, more recently, Cyclone Katrina, history is marked by terrible events that constantly remind us of human weakness in the face of the power of nature. Each time, events came to bring a formal denial to the old dream of Descartes, who thought science capable of making us masters and possessors of nature. It is now global warming that reminds us of our modest condition: the calamities associated with it are multiplying, in numbers as well as in intensity. We have seen it hard since the beginning of the quinquennium with Hurricane Irma, floods in the Aude, in the Var or even more recently with Storm Alex. Every year, thousands of French and French people suffer from landslides, mud flows or drought. It is not yet the end of the world, but for the unfortunate whose house is ravaged, it is already a little the end of their world. Everyone is well aware that the legislative emergency must respond to the climate emergency. The President of the Republic has made it an imperative, the Senate a bill; It is in close consultation with the Government that the rapporteur Stéphane Baudu, whose quality of work I would like to commend, presents a text that responds to the two concerns that must guide the reform of the natural disaster regime: improving the right of the French people to face climate hazards while preserving the balance of a regime based on our national solidarity. Indeed, I recall the peculiarity of this unique regime in the world, which, for almost forty years, has enabled millions of our citizens, not only to rebuild, but above all to rebuild. This regime is based on a clear principle, which is the very expression of our Republic: each insured person contributes at the same rate regardless of his territory or his exposure to risk. Thus, for an average of twenty euros, the French protect themselves against natural disasters and, above all, protect their compatriots. This is all the more remarkable since never in forty years, with one exception, this regime had to resort to the State guarantee. However, preserving this national solidarity necessarily leads to preserving the financial viability of the regime, while the effects of global warming increase the risk of natural disasters. Downstream, this involves adapting the regime to new disasters, such as drought, which is unfortunately expected to increase in the coming years, both in frequency and in intensity and in scope: the Government intends to make new proposals in the coming months in this area. Upstream, this involves adapting our risk prevention policy. In this regard, the Government has already taken decisive action, by increasing the resources of the Barnier Fund by 50 per cent by 2021, and by putting in place several specific plans against floods, droughts and cyclones for communities, builders and overseas territories. But this bill is an opportunity to pave the way for other structural responses to the problem of preventing natural disasters in general. In this way, we will discuss two amendments which would allow the Central Reinsurance Fund to carry out an evaluation of preventive measures, and to encourage those who can do so – local authorities, large companies – to carry out their own preventive measures. I am pleased that this text has taken the lead in developing prevention rather than increasing the premium of insured persons, which would have been the easy solution to ensure the sustainability of the system of compensation for natural disasters. I believe, like many of you, that it is not possible to ensure the balance of the scheme at the expense of the insured. On the contrary, the proposed law will result in concrete benefits for the victims, who will receive enhanced support. It proposes to extend the deadlines for filing applications and reporting claims, but above all to create a focal point in each department, responsible for accompanying mayors who sometimes feel isolated or even lacking solutions in the face of the scale of disasters. This text proposes faster, but also more generous, compensation. The time limits for publication of the recognition order shall be reduced. And tomorrow, the costs of emergency rehousing will be borne by national solidarity. The Government intends to go further, by way of an amendment, by proposing, inter alia, to cap the franchises for small businesses, the amounts of which are sometimes too high to prevent them from returning to business as a result of a disaster. Finally, the bill responds to the legitimate demand for greater transparency, which is essential to build confidence in the natural disaster regime. The National Consultative Commission on Natural Disasters will establish a public and democratic debate on the functioning of the regime, thanks to the elected representatives and associations of disaster victims who will participate in it. In short, I would like to stress the rapporteur's merit in this bill: he has managed to combine the strengthening of the rights of insured persons with the preservation of the duties of national solidarity. The latter honours us and obliges us: everything is always a matter of balance. I stress this notion of balance: we must guard against solutions which, taken in isolation, seem to be relevant, but which, accumulated, could, on the other hand, jeopardize the overall architecture of our regime. Overly extending the costs covered by the scheme would in fact endanger its financial sustainability and risk seeing it disappear, thus depriving our fellow citizens of this indispensable tool. Moreover, the objective of reconstruction is resilient, quite relevant, and must not pave the way for excessive compensation for minor damage, failing which it is the very coherence of the regime that could be undermined. Similarly, excessive constraints on the functioning of the interministerial committee, if it meets a laudable objective of transparency, could reduce its responsiveness and effectiveness. It would thus extend the time frame for investigation, to the detriment of prompt compensation for our fellow citizens. Compensation for natural disasters is a goldsmith's job. In France, we have a unique model, which, while capable of overcoming hurricanes and earthquakes, is more resistant to sand grains that can stop its mechanics – often in goldsmiths. Jean Giraudoux wrote that "the privilege of the great is to see the disasters of a terrace." I don't know if we're tall, but I know that we may tend to forget that we're contemplating calamities from too far away when some live them far too close. The Republic must be at the side of the victims in the terrible ordeal of a natural disaster. She is, and thanks to you, she intends to stay. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, IDU-I and Activité ens]] That is why the Government is fully convinced of the need to change the system. It supports the initiative of the Member of Parliament Stéphane Baudu, all the more so as it participates in its more general desire to prevent the effects of global warming. In the face of the injustices linked to the weather hazard, thanks to this text, which I thank you for, the Republic opposes the stability of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u94	In the general debate, Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u95	As a result of global warming, floods, land movements or coastal erosion are becoming more frequent and now affect the entire national territory. In my region of the Hauts-de-France, the drought phenomena, combined with repeated rains of increasing intensity, as was still the case this night in the Pas-de-Calais region, cause inside houses cracks such that the risk of house collapse becomes alarming. In the Hauts-de-France, three associations now have more than 1500 victims. This applies to many other regions, since it is estimated that 70% of hexagon is affected. These difficulties are also due to an old building model and, perhaps, man's fault. We must therefore dare to question our collective responsibility as elected officials. For several decades, many constructions have been carried out at low cost. This has resulted in a particularly fragile individual housing stock. Fortunately, the ELAN law now provides for more stringent measures for future constructions, in particular a soil survey. Nevertheless, it is up to us to solve the problems on old buildings, the extent of which has been underestimated by our predecessors. Our fellow citizens are faced with repeated climatic difficulties. Some see their house, the fruit of the work of a lifetime, disappear before their eyes, as in the valley of Vesubia. The house may also become uninhabitable or, at best, be severely damaged. In the event of drought-rehydration, unfortunately, applications for recognition of the state of natural disaster made by the affected municipalities are often rejected by the prefectures, without the reasons for this decision. Last year, I alerted the Government to the rejection of eighty cases that concerned all of my territory, and for all two communes in my territory, Lestrem and Mont-Bernanchon. Without a halt to a state of natural disaster, our affected inhabitants cannot receive any compensation. Many affected citizens thus find themselves in a situation of total disarray and are completely left to themselves, even if an active network of defence associations has been formed, by the force of things. The fact is therefore clear: it is urgent to review our regulations on the recognition of the state of natural disasters, namely the CATNAT regime, which is no longer adapted to climate realities and whose lack of visibility leads to the misunderstanding and understandable anger of our fellow citizens. This is the objective that our colleague Stéphane Baudu has set for the bill that we are discussing this afternoon: to increase the transparency of procedures on the one hand, to facilitate the steps taken to recognise the state of natural disasters and the steps taken to compensate them on the other. In order to achieve this, the first aim of this bill is to provide a legal basis for the inter-ministerial commission for the recognition of the state of natural disasters. Given the importance of its role in CATNAT, it could not continue its activities without a clear legislative framework. In order to give greater visibility to the classifications chosen, we also wanted to set up a National Consultative Commission on Natural Disasters to give an opinion on the relevance of the criteria used for the recognition of the state of natural disasters. It will have to work independently. Secondly, since the local elected representatives are the first to be concerned with the consequences of these climatic hazards, it seemed to us appropriate to propose the appointment of a delegate to the recognition of the state of natural disaster, who will be their sole focal point and contact person. Its role will be to advise and inform, accompany and coordinate local actions. Finally, in order to adapt the CATNAT regime to situations where damage does not appear until long after the event that causes it – this is particularly the case during drought-rehydration events – the bill tends to extend certain deadlines in the reporting procedures. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats shares with the rapporteur the desire to better protect citizens and the hope that the adoption of these provisions will avoid the emergence of litigation in the future, which is a source of legal instability and prolongation of procedures. These remedies, which are increasing in number, are often the result of suspicions of opacity and bias that affect the current functioning of the CATNAT regime. I believe that the wording on which we agreed in committee fully meets the objective set. I would also like to pay tribute here to all the representatives of the political groups present during the examination in committee, with whom we have been able to build a text of balance and consensus, which responds to strong territorial concerns, to which local elected representatives are confronted on a daily basis. We are all here sensitive to the distress of the victims. My group wishes to respond to this with this bill, so that our citizens, who have sometimes lost everything, are better accompanied in their formalities and can be quickly compensated. As my region, the Hauts-de-France, is particularly affected by the phenomena in question, I thank the rapporteur for his involvement. I am pleased that this bill, which has emerged from many consultations, has been adopted by a large majority in committee, and hope that the discussion will be just as constructive in open session. This text is the result of extensive work in the Senate, with the fact-finding mission on climate risk management and the evolution of our compensation schemes, led by our colleague Senator Nicole Bonnefoy, and fed by the informal working group led by our colleague Vincent Ledoux on the issue of drought-rehydration of soils, or by the General Inspectorate of Finance, which examined the management of damage to the existing structure caused by the withdrawal-swelling of clays. Following the numerous hearings that the rapporteur and I have conducted, we have tried to draft a text on all natural disasters. Insurers were also seeking such a text, due to the steady increase in the number of litigations. Three important provisions remain outstanding and will need to be discussed in depth in open session. To begin with, a stricter framework for compensation deadlines is essential. Many victims receive the compensation to which they are entitled very late. We discussed it in committee, in particular with our colleagues in the Republican Group; We fully agree that it is essential to speed up the treatment of the damage suffered by insured persons and to provide for penalties for insurers in the event of default. The rapporteur will propose a wording to this effect. The deductibles paid by insured persons should then be capped, in the interests of fairness and fairness to all insured persons. Finally, the compensation payable to the insured for drought-rehydration of the soil will have to cover the work to put an end to the existing disorders. With these new provisions, the bill will strike the right balance between more appropriate support for victims and respect for the economic balance of insurance contracts. Finally, I will refer to Article 7, which provides for the submission of a report on possible adaptations of prevention and compensation schemes to the specifics of the risks associated with drought and soil rehydration. This article is of particular interest to me, because our action must always begin with the definition of preventive measures. The group to which I belong attaches great importance to prevention: it allows us to anticipate damage and avoid many incidents. In the face of global warming, we are forced to adapt constantly to changing climate conditions and thus to strengthen the link between prevention policy and compensation policy. The bill takes this concern into account. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will enthusiastically vote on this bill to reform the system of compensation for natural disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u96	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u97	The bill we are discussing this afternoon aims to improve the conditions for compensation for victims of natural disasters. Such a text can only be welcomed, knowing that we expect an increase in natural disasters and their effects. According to statistics, the number of climate victims, of all categories, already exceeds 400,000 each year. Of the victims of TNG floods or disasters, i.e. storm, snow or hail, 80% are individuals, and these claims account for more than 50% of the insurers' compensation. Over the next 25 years, the anticipated amount of compensation could increase by 90 per cent, one third of which would be attributable to climate change. Therefore, the discussion of such a bill is useful; In fact, she was expected. The proposed text consists of nine articles. Half of them are aimed at better organizing State action at the deconcentrated level, preserving insured persons from harmful forbearance from local authorities upstream and making the work of the national commission responsible for setting the criteria for natural disasters more contradictory. To resolve such difficulties, an effort by the State on its own should have been sufficient. The other half of the scheme aims to clarify certain provisions of the insurance code and to include with certainty the rights of insured persons. We are here in the statement that certain rights are actually included in insurance contracts. Among these articles, two provisions are intended to include in the scheme the situation of owners who are victims of the withdrawal-swelling effects of clay soils following drought episodes. Such disorders are caused by the deformation of the soil after swelling and then retraction of the clays on which many houses are built. The cost of repairs is often high and difficult to bear by low-income families, who thus lose their wealth and remain in debt. A year ago, I asked the Government about the situation of many Sarthe families facing these phenomena. On the one hand, the procedure for gaining access to possible compensation by insurance is complex and opaque. On the other hand, files are being processed slowly, due to the lack of dedicated resources and staff. Although funds are available, including funds from the Barnier Fund, which aims to compensate for a major climate event for the lack of insurance compensation, no compensation has been made possible. I therefore asked the competent minister about the number of cases filed by the 20 or so Sarthoese communes concerned, the number of cases declared admissible and the way in which the State intended to improve the situation in practice. I have not received any reply from him and I regret it. One year later, the present law provides for the submission, within six months of the enactment of the law, of a report setting out "proposals for compensation for damage caused by this phenomenon which is not covered by the natural disaster regime or by the 10-year guarantee, in particular by examining the financing of State aid to compensate all the owners concerned". I will make three observations on the form, but I agree with the substance. First, this bill is being considered under the expedited procedure. This is also the case with an increasing number of texts, which in substance corresponds to a particular reading of the Constitution. Indeed, the norm should be a double reading by each assembly. In view of the issues at stake, however, we can accept that there is a derogation in this case. Secondly, the bill is competing, if I may say so, with a text that has already been adopted by our honourable senators. Indeed, a bill known as Bonnefoy, which is broader and contains provisions of a financial and budgetary nature, was unanimously passed by the Senate. It incorporates all the measures advocated by Nicole Bonnefoy in the report she submitted in 2019 following the work of the information mission on climate risk management. My colleague Marie-Noëlle Battistel, who has also worked on the issue, the Socialist and related group has included the Senate bill in the part of the agenda allocated to it on February 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u98	The important thing is that things are done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u99	My third point concerns the inadequacy in the text of financial and budgetary provisions which are rapidly applicable to the benefit of insured persons and victims. The two amendments I tabled on this subject were declared inadmissible, as they referred to the bill to be considered in the near future. The persons and bodies concerned expressed their desire for a grooming of the law, aimed at reducing franchises, maintaining the financing of the Barnier fund and an effort towards more prevention and implementation of continuity plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u100	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u101	For this reason, we will support the bill, but we are firmly waiting for another piece of legislation. However, it will be difficult, I fear, to engage in a further debate on this matter by the end of the legislature. So this is a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u102	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u103	First of all, it should be remembered that natural disasters are always a trauma, not only for goods – homes are subject to shocks, which can create cracks – but also for people. I am thinking of all the faces we have encountered in these long years, of those people who had sometimes lost everything and suffered a triple penalty: the non-recognition of the commune in a state of natural disaster; rehousing, often at their expense; Finally, psychological and moral stress, or even absolute distress, frequently followed by health problems. We have all gathered poignant testimonies here, such as that of this northern family that we received and that had lost everything. For being mayor for seventeen years, I was, like some of you, confronted in the front line with the procedure, alongside the victims. However, we did not always understand this procedure, which is often illegible, non-transparent, based on an inter-ministerial decision-making process which was not fully understood and which nevertheless had to be explained to the public. Thus, we often – and still do – provide for the after-sales service of a decision that escapes us and can often be unfavourable in the case of drought and withdrawal-swelling clays. We have entered a period when the climate crisis is worsening, increasingly striking homes and businesses. It will be appropriate, and this is what we have begun to do, to work hand in hand with insurers, and to ensure prevention and education of natural hazards, by adapting building standards and progressing on the aspects of compensation. There is also a need to improve the governance of organizations that monitor natural hazards, including public structures that are struggling to provide disaster relief groups with the information they need, while ensuring better information sharing, as provided for in the proposed legislation. All the speakers who have spoken before me have referred to the collectives of disaster victims. I would like to thank them for their great sense of active citizenship and for the expertise they have acquired. I often say that it is my parliamentary assistants who enlighten me on these phenomena. The National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters will certainly be a first response. Ladies and gentlemen, the virus that strikes us also confronts us with a test, that of the next world. We will not simply have to talk about it or dream about it, we will have to do it. We cannot be content with mere statements and, after that, forget everything – for there will necessarily be one after. The challenge of ecological transition may seem very distant, given the problems faced by young people, economic and moral difficulties. But it cannot be pushed back too long. A study by the Fédération française de l'assurance anticipates, within twenty-five years, a near doubling of climate-related claims and estimates the share of climate change alone at 35%. I tell you everything about go: there will be no effective and sustainable reform of the natural disaster compensation system without a real ecological transition. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u104	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u105	Finally, neither can we lie, so strong is the expectation of all those who believe in us. Today, we are reforming a procedure, while certain hazards, such as the withdrawal-swelling of clays, are not covered today and will not be covered tomorrow. This is the current model. Two missions are under way: the Government has asked the Inspectorate-General of Finance, the Inspectorate-General of Administration and the Office of the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development to submit to it a report on the management of the damage related to the withdrawal-swelling of clays on the existing building – let the three ministers responsible for this request be thanked – and I am leading, together with Hubert Wulfranc, an informal group of parliamentarians mobilized on the topic of drought-rehydration of the soil, which will report at the end of the year after an expert opinion from the Court of Auditors. I hope that these two cross-examinations, that of the Government and that of our house, will bring solutions, in order to enrich the first stage proposed by Stéphane Baudu. This is a good step: the text provides a first solution to certain problems, such as the lack of transparency – through the creation of the National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters – or the difficulties of rehousing, which are similar to a triple sentence. Let us not pay for words, however. I say this to all those who are experiencing difficulties during the procedure for the recognition of natural disasters: there will be no immediate response. The drought raises strong questions, not only about the definition of a natural disaster in the twenty-first century, but also about the model of compensation and national solidarity that we want. Finally, given the many future climate events, how far can we go? [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] This is the construction site that awaits us. The first stage, which we are debating today, will make it possible to be much more effective and to have a much more democratic approach. Thank you, dear Stéphane. The Action Together Group will naturally support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u106	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u107	According to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the High Climate Council, the commitments of the Paris Agreement are largely insufficient to stabilize future global warming, and this agreement is not even respected. Even though global emissions would drop drastically now, the inertia of our climate would still cause very difficult changes for our people, due in particular to the increase in natural disasters and the increase in their intensity: cuts in water, electricity, heating, communication, transport – and I forget about them. Everything we have patiently built for decades can be removed from the map in a few hours. The almost total destruction of the infrastructure of the valleys above Nice, leaving people in the greatest disarray, is here to remind us. For the IDU and independent group, there are therefore two priorities: to limit our greenhouse gas emissions to the maximum; Adapting our societies without delay to the consequences of climate change by inculcating our citizens with a real risk culture in order to strengthen our resilience. The growth of severe weather events will lead to an inflation of the amount of compensation in the coming years, not to mention cracked houses, a phenomenon that we know particularly well in our department of the North and in our region of Hauts-de-France. As mentioned earlier, drought causes damage not only in many municipalities with clay soils, but also throughout France, due to heavy rainfall following a period of severe drought. We need to anticipate financial needs and consider a broader reform, raising the Barnier Fund ceiling to at least EUR 200 million. Last June, in a previous debate, our group proposed that the system of compensation for natural disasters should be extended in a very structured way to include health disasters. As a new pandemic can occur, we need to anticipate and reflect on the evolution of our insurance system to cover this new major risk. While some of the measures proposed in this text are generally in the right direction and should be welcomed, such as taking over the costs of rehousing or speeding up procedures, others seem to be more secondary and unfortunately will not solve the problem of the drought of clay soils that has just been mentioned, for example. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] However, the IDU and independent group will of course vote for the text. Thank you, Mr rapporteur, since we can indeed talk about a real step. More than 4 million homes would potentially be at high risk of drought. It should be recalled that a genuine territorial prevention strategy should be carried out to inform the public at risk of good practices in construction, comforting and protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u108	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u109	We are meeting to discuss the bill to reform the system of compensation for natural disasters. There is indeed an urgent need to reform it. For almost a year now, the crisis that we are going through has caused considerable damage and the insurers have gone ahead with their responsibilities, notably abandoning thousands of small businesses, without compensating their operating losses, even partial ones. We are therefore going to debate the regime for the compensation of natural disasters without addressing the pandemic which, in my view, falls well within this question. It originates from the severe disturbance of ecosystems by unseasoned human action. Our debate on adjustments to this insurance scheme is certainly necessary, but it is outside the reality of this health crisis. We do not take the opportunity to do something relevant and useful. Pandemics are a major flaw in our insurance system. That is why I myself had tabled a bill, which was examined in a niche in my group and rejected by the majority. It was intended to fill this gap, by forcing private insurance companies to participate first in national solidarity before contributing to shareholder solidarity. We have seen TPE-SMEs, artisans, forced to stop all or part of their activity, resulting in a sharp drop in their turnover. The most affected sectors include trade and crafts, hotels and catering, and tourism. These companies turned to their insurers to obtain compensation for operating losses incurred as a result of containment measures and other administrative restrictions. To date, few of them have been successful. Indeed, the large insurance companies have adopted a restrictive interpretation of the contracts, excluding any coverage of operating losses resulting from the crisis of the covid-19, including when fairly explicit guarantees were made. You made it clear in committee that this text was not intended to solve these problems; This is never the right time to deal with real subjects. The majority blames us for never making proposals, whereas, divided in its certainties, whose results we see today, it never takes them into account. That is not what our fellow citizens expect from national representation, nor is that the idea that I have to worry about either. Consideration should have been given to integrating the exploitation losses associated with epidemics into the natural disaster compensation scheme, the additional cost of which would be financed, for example, by the introduction of a new tax on the dividends of insurance multinationals. That is one of my proposals. The need to ensure sustainable and equitably funded coverage against the risk of epidemics and pandemics is no longer questionable or even discussed. Unlike previous health crises, the crisis of the covid-19 must be responded to. The creation of cover for exploitation losses caused by epidemics and pandemics responds to a demand or, rather, a need. It is sufficient to note that no fewer than eleven bills have been tabled in the National Assembly or Senate since the crisis began. How many have received the attention of the majority or the Government? None. A working group had been set up by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, who, with his hand on his heart, swore to move forward quickly on the subject. At this time, how many proposals have been accepted? How many concrete measures have been taken? None. Nevertheless, the statement made here is correct. The current CATNAT regime has many flaws and requires modifications. Those before us in the bill are good: more information for victims, better transparency of decisions, better remedies, shorter compensation periods, etc. In conclusion, I agree with these proposals and will vote in favour of them. But I regret that we are missing the opportunity to put an end to the mad race for the benefit of insurers who no longer play their part. Sharing risks or paying billions of dividends, they made a choice that is no longer bearable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u110	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u111	We have all been alerted by some of our fellow citizens who, as a result of a natural disaster, face major difficulties in their dealings and relations with insurers. We all have in mind the recent damage caused by storm Alex in the Roya valley, but Corsica is also a particularly exposed territory: I could cite many examples like each of you: the ravages of storm Fabien at the end of 2019, floods and mud flows in Bastia, Ville-di-Pietrabugno and Rogliano as well as the land movements in Castagniccia. This leads us to call for improvements to the CATNAT regime to make it more transparent and accessible. In this we share the ambition of this text. Floods, drought, marine submersion, erosion of the coast line: natural disasters have doubled in 20 years as a result of global warming. This is an additional argument in favour of a real ecological turning point in our economy. More prosaically, this degradation also undermines the great balances of the French model of compensation for natural disasters. It is therefore becoming urgent to rethink it. This text makes some notable improvements. It proposes both reforms of the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disasters and a strengthening of the rights of insured persons and compensation for victims. The question of greater transparency of the compensation scheme is also being addressed, which our group welcomes. Indeed, by providing for the publication of the opinion given and the expert reports used by the interministerial commission, the bill responds to the challenges of the field by facilitating the work of local elected officials with their officials. In pursuit of the same objective, the creation of a post of Delegate for the Recognition of the State of Natural Disaster, intended to accompany local elected officials, is an important step. Indeed, many are elected from territories lost in the face of episodes of great violence. Title II of the bill deals with improving and simplifying procedures for our affected citizens. We welcome the abolition of the modulation of franchises following the existence of a plan to prevent natural risks. Indeed, it was a double penalty for insured persons, who were under no circumstances responsible for this situation. In the same way, the provision of emergency rehousing costs for those affected and the extension of the time limit for the formulation of an application for recognition of the state of natural disaster are all points we support. With regard to the damage caused by droughts and the withdrawal and swelling of clays, certain devices need to be developed. If new constructions are relatively spared, this phenomenon particularly affects the old one. The bill opens the way for reflection on the matter, through a Government report. We would have preferred parliamentary work on this subject rather than always relying on the Government, but we welcome the extension of the deadline for the formulation of a request for recognition of the state of natural disaster for the drought-rehydration phenomenon from 18 to 24 months. Indeed, as the rapporteur has pointed out, certain phenomena are slow to manifest themselves. It is therefore necessary to allow the municipalities time to mobilize. While, from a general point of view, the bill is a step forward, we regret that it does not aim to reform the operation of the Barnier fund – a major natural risk prevention fund – as Senator Nicole Bonnefoy's bill, which was enriched by senators and passed unanimously, was intended to do. We still do not understand why the Government has not expressed its support for the Senate text. However, it had pledged to deepen its work on the issue quickly and, above all, to enrich the text. Instead, we are faced with harmful competition between several texts. We would have preferred a shared approach, up to the stakes. Our colleagues in the Socialist and related group, whose irritation I understand, will give us the opportunity to save time by putting Nicole Bonnefoy's bill on the agenda of our assembly on February 18. Its adoption would enable us to give an effective and rapid response to the difficulties faced by the victims of natural disasters. I believe that this objective should lead us to join forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u112	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u113	The proposal for a law by our colleagues in the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is aimed at reforming the system of compensation for natural disasters. Indeed, this insurance regime seems to be breathless and unable to integrate the risks associated with climate and environmental disruptions, which occur increasingly frequently and in increasingly large areas, as well as some new global risks, such as pandemic risk. This text by our colleague Stéphane Baudu, whose work I would like to pay tribute to, is not intended to answer all these questions or to upset the CATNAT regime. However, it presents significant progress and allows reflections on certain issues, such as the multiplication of drought-rehydration phenomena. With regard to the progress made in relation to insured persons, beyond the extension of the time limit available to them to declare a claim to their insurer once the state of natural disaster has been declared, or the reduction of the period for the compensation of the victims, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left welcomes the assumption, through insurance, of their housing costs when their home is no longer habitable or has become dangerous. This is a real step forward for many victims, whose rehousing arrangements often resembled a combatant's journey, with long and complex approaches, as well as time-limited accommodation opportunities. The text also presents advances for local elected officials, including mayors, who are responsible for their city's request for recognition of the state of natural disaster. With the creation of the post of Natural Disaster Recognition Officer in each department, a more fluid procedure and better transmission of information can be envisaged. However, this provision does not address all the issues, particularly financial ones. The creation of an application for recognition of the state of natural disaster can represent a cost of close to 30000 euros for the town hall. However, such costs can be very heavy for small municipalities with limited resources. However, this claim is essential for the city to be listed in the natural disaster order and for the insured to be compensated. In the same way, as regards the recognition procedure, we believe that it is appropriate to replace the interministerial committee whose existence you wish to include in the law. Indeed, accusations, sometimes well-founded, of lack of transparency justify a more ambitious evolution with the establishment of a broader body that could include local elected officials, policyholders, and also insurers. Finally, the draft law opens up reflections on the phenomenon of drought-rehydration, with a view to changing the methods of action and stressing the importance of giving priority to prevention over reaction and reparation. In this regard, I would like to point out that, in order to limit the occurrence of natural disasters, the first of the preventions remains, of course, the imperative to combat the causes of climate change at source. In October, the UN – the United Nations – reported that the number of natural disasters in the world has doubled in 20 years, with more than 1.2 million people killed. This requires more ambitious and radical measures to finally operate an ecological bifurcation which, in addition to being virtuous – which is necessary for our ecosystem – will prove financially beneficial in that it will allow us to avoid repair costs in the future. For the positive developments it contains, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u114	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u115	In conclusion, however, I would like to talk about forgotten people. By this I mean all these houseowners, who are sometimes severely affected by the drought phenomenon and whose commune has not initiated proceedings, or whose proceedings have not been successful. Being unable to finance several tens of thousands of euros for repairs, these people sometimes find themselves in dramatic situations. We must not forget them, and the parliamentary mission that Vincent Ledoux mentioned – and that he is leading with our colleague Hubert Wulfranc – will, I hope, bring us proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u116	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u117	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u118	Consideration of the bill to reform the long-awaited system of compensation for natural disasters in the Territories is particularly timely. The recent setbacks in nature throughout the country and the long-term damage caused by natural disasters have caused significant trauma to our fellow citizens. How many homes have been destroyed, homes devastated, lives ravaged, as in the recent floods of the Roya and Vesubia valleys? The compensation system has undergone decades of adjustment, due to the ever-increasing fragmentation of our communes. One in four French people currently live in floodplains; One in two municipalities is concerned. The repetition of large-scale natural events and the negative prospects in this area revived the debate on the fundamentals of the compensation system, which was based on the principle of national solidarity and for which the State played the role of reinsurer. We are well aware that our insurance regime for natural disasters, as defined since the law of 13 July 1982, is unique in Europe. Its solidity, which no one contests, nevertheless appears relative or even compromised if we do not strengthen it. Indeed, over time and events, this regime seems increasingly undersized to compensate financially for the impact of new natural disasters. Ten years ago, the cost of damage was estimated at EUR 400 million per year. Today it amounts to about 1 billion. The legal framework for the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disasters and the compensation of victims suffers from many limitations, leading to legal uncertainty which cannot satisfy us. This situation therefore obliges us to regulate this regime further, in order to meet the promise set out in paragraph 12 of the preamble to our Constitution, which states that "the Nation proclaims the solidarity and equality of all French people in front of the burdens resulting from national calamities". Composed of eight articles, this bill strengthens and modernises the regime of natural disasters, which must be "a faster, more generous but also more incentive-oriented system", not to mention the President of the Republic. I would like to stress the usefulness, if not the need, of certain provisions contained in the text. I am thinking in particular of the simplification of access to free remedies and the amendment of the insurance code, which provides for a measure that reduces the discretion of the executive branch to recognize natural disasters. These will be more recognized by the administrative courts: regardless of budgetary or accounting logic, provided that the claim is recognized to its fair proportion. I would also like to draw your attention to the creation of a position of Natural Disaster Recognition Officer, whose responsibilities must be discussed during the review of the articles. In line with the Prime Minister's objective of deconcentrating and delocalizing public action, article 2 of the text will give greater weight to local elected officials and allow mayors to benefit from direct interlocutors in the prefectures. I would also like to stress the usefulness of the mechanism introduced in Article 8, on drought-rehydration episodes of soil. These episodes have not only immediate effects, but also medium- and long-term effects, which sometimes leaves our fellow citizens in need. I also stress the introduction of a cap on the franchise for our SMEs. I look forward to the Government accepting, in the long run, my proposal to extend this measure to our fellow citizens to the lowest incomes. In the face of increasing weather events, another way to sustain the natural disaster regime would have been to improve prevention in areas at risk. In some territories, the fact is that there are indefensible situations, urbanized areas that should not have been. We pay for forty to fifty years of inappropriate occupation of the territory. Finally, I would add that this text is, for the Member of Parliament for Meurthe-et-Moselle, that I am – and also elected from a constituency subject to mining collapses – at least inspiring. It is a prerequisite for the necessary reform of the mining code and the sacrosanct "post-mine" component, which, hopefully, will be dealt with otherwise than by ordinances. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and on several benches of the Dem group]] This text is all the more necessary in view of the fact that an increasing number of our fellow citizens are rediscovering the extent to which we are exposed to the risk of flooding, that our landscapes are changing, that lives are being broken. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u119	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u120	The text we are debating this afternoon is based on an observation that we all share: climate events causing considerable damage to our territories and our fellow citizens are becoming more and more frequent. They're causing more and more damage. These events can be impressive, such as storms or floods, or more discreet, at least in appearance, like periods of drought that can cause the retraction of clay soils and the cracking of houses. However, in the face of these phenomena, our right is clearly no longer appropriate. Procedures for the recognition of natural disasters remain very opaque. This lack of transparency, but also the slowness and blockages, all too often cause the misunderstanding of the victims, who then experience a feeling of injustice. They feel deprived or even lost in the face of the procedures, appeals and many interlocutors with whom they have to deal. For their part, local elected officials, especially mayors, often feel isolated and powerless, because they do not have information or explanations to pass on to their officials, even though they are on the front line. In this context, the Members of the LR Group welcome the rapporteur's efforts to provide concrete and adequate answers in his proposed law for the benefit of the victims. After working with associations of disaster victims, we have proposed amendments in committee to strengthen it. It is in the same constructive spirit that we will defend others in this meeting. We regret, however, that the text does not deal with ongoing claims for which the difficulties are often real. Finally, although this is not the subject of the text, it is urgent, Madam Secretary of State, to revise the regime for compensation for operating losses related to pandemics. The current crisis has shown us how dramatic the situation of many trade, catering and event professionals, who feel abandoned by their insurers, is. The LR MPs were the first to call for the creation of a health disaster regime along the lines of natural disasters and to introduce legislation to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the end, our group supports this text, which, although it will not solve all the problems, goes in the right direction because it will make the system of compensation for natural disasters clearer and less centralized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u121	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u122	I would like to react to some of the interventions, beginning with welcoming the Secretary of State's and her commitment to the next stage: the necessary prevention and the mobilization of new mechanisms proposed by various reports, such as the interdepartmental inspection mission currently in operation, or the one provided for in section 7 of the proposed law. Of course, Madam Secretary of State, we will have to respect the balance – this is the complexity of the exercise – and at some point we will have to follow climate change phenomena whose impact we have observed. But tomorrow, our job must be to prevent them rather than to correct them. Just a few more reactions. As some of you have observed, this text is a milestone rather than a revolution. There will have to be more, but we will not wait forty years to do so. We need to plan certain steps, particularly with regard to the prevention or identification of natural disasters. Should drought and soil rehydration be regarded as a natural disaster or should this concept be incorporated into the common law, by activating policies for improving housing, on the model of policies for energy renovation of housing? All the dwellings affected by this scourge belong to the same typology: they are those of the 1970s. There will be, it is indispensable, a next step. We will need to reflect both on the evolution of our natural disaster architecture and on how it is financed. This text does not envisage any further development. He does not propose to reform the Barnier fund. But when we are working on new risks and prevention, we will have to think about financial interventions. I agree, Mrs Karamanli, that the Government has initiated the accelerated procedure. Although, in general, it may seem disturbing to us, in the current context it is a matter of moving quickly and providing expected answers. If the text is promulgated this year and provides concrete solutions, the choice of this procedure is happy. Although you mentioned it, I will not dwell on the difference between Nicole Bonnefoy's more financial approach and mine, which originally focuses more on drought-rehydration. In any event, we find ourselves on certain topics and move in the same direction. The important thing for both of us is to work for the common good and for our fellow citizens affected by natural disasters. Financial arrangements need to be reassessed. However, the text is not intended to rethink the typology of disasters. I hear the demands of Mr Prud'homme, Mrs Descamps or Mr Breton on the notion of a health disaster. Perhaps we should reflect on this subject and consider financial cover, but not within the framework of the text. Mr Dufrègne, you want to replace the interministerial committee with a single committee integrating local elected representatives. I am not in favour of this approach. In my view, the good idea is that an interdepartmental technical commission works on a daily basis on the substance of the cases, while in parallel, a national evaluation commission will audit its work and propose improvements, in particular to change the criteria. The presence of two committees that are not assembled – and therefore cannot be both judge and judge – will allow us to be more effective and to better meet the expectations and desirable developments relating to the criteria of natural disasters. These are some simple and direct reactions to this text, which, I repeat, is not a revolution, but an expected, necessary and important step. It will have to be supplemented by others. Perhaps we will have to work on it regularly, since, alas, disasters are changing. But let's not wait 40 years to change a device that must be flexible, responsive, and that must integrate prevention more fully!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u123	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u124	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u125	Perhaps I will supplement or repeat Xavier Breton's remarks. We have noted it on all the benches: the text starts from a finding, the increase and aggravation of natural disasters due to climatic hazards. One can make another: the difficulty for both local elected officials and the public, to have the state of natural disaster recognized. When the order of the Ministry of the Interior appears, there is a real relief. At that time, the victims do not realize that they are entering the harshest sentence, which is to be compensated by insurance. I have experienced this situation several times in the territory of Belfort after episodes of drought and soil rehydration. When local elected officials have to fight for recognition of the state of natural disaster, they often work together – and effectively – with the Ministry of the Interior, which eventually takes a decision. Then engages in a discussion with the insurance companies, who can show the greatest bad faith not to compensate the victims. We can see that some are playing the game and not others, because disaster victims are reimbursed very quickly, while others have to complete a real journey of the combatant. In the area of drought-rehydration, article 8 really goes in the right direction. This is also the case for the whole text, although – you have acknowledged it, Mr rapporteur – it probably does not go far enough. We're about to cross a first hedge. Before I thought of the next one, I wanted to congratulate you. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] My colleague Xavier Breton will defend amendments that would allow the text to go further and faster. I hope that Parliament will pay attention to this in order to consolidate the bill. I know that our debate is very much followed, because there are many people in difficulty. I am thinking in particular of the association very present in my department, Les Oubliés de la heatcule du Territoire de Belfort, and of its president Sandrine Rouge, who, I am sure, looks at us and eagerly waits for our assembly to do good work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u126	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u127	Its objective is to ensure the consistency of the article with Article 2, according to which the focal point of the prefect does not carry out the functions of the deconcentrated departments of the State responsible for the investigation of cases, even if the transmission of expert reports to the municipalities which request them falls within the competence of that department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u129	Favourable opinion. The aim is to anticipate Amendment No 91, which will be called for in a moment, and is to replace the words "delegated to the recognition of the state of natural disaster" with those of "referencing to the compensation of natural disasters", and to define the mission of this delegate. This good amendment clarifies things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u131	Same opinion, favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u132	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u133	Its objective is to make the article consistent with the current state of law, in particular with regard to the means of appeal against administrative decisions under ordinary law. In fact, other legal entities may bring legal proceedings against orders for the recognition of natural disasters, such as associations of disaster victims, which is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u134	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u135	I congratulate our rapporteur on his excellent work. I am aware that the text is limited to certain natural disasters, but since article 2 deals with local elected officials, I would like to draw the Government's attention to one point. After a natural disaster, whatever it may be, the local elected officials are doing everything possible to prepare themselves for the blows of fate in the future. My territory, the Var, has been struck, especially in the east, by the worst disasters: my colleague Sereine Mauborgne can testify to this. In 2003, a fire ravaged 50,000 hectares. In 2006, and then in 2010, we experienced repeated floods, which were the most deadly in France. Twenty-five people died in Draguignan. In 2019, we again had three episodes in the lower Argens valley. The Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Agriculture and Mrs Borne, then Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, moved. Each time, we presented them with files mounted by all the communes of the watershed, which, to defend them, have been united since 2010 in a union. The funds are there, since in November 2018, as part of a niche of the Dem Group, we defended a bill to amend the GEMAPI law – water management and flood prevention – so that PAPI – flood prevention action programmes – could receive taxes from 1 January 2019 without waiting until the original date of 1 January 2020. [[Mr. Frédéric Petit and Ms. Sereine Mauborgne applaud]] Our files are ready, the funds are here. We collect taxes to carry out work, but elected officials cannot act as long as the files are scalded somewhere in a state administration. Madam Secretary of State, you have deployed a great deal of energy and shown great efficiency in making the crisis unit live on the ESS, the social and solidarity economy, which I congratulate you on. If you put them at the service of local elected officials, you could move forward with files blocked by the administration. We could then carry out the necessary work, which everyone is ready to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u136	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u137	This amendment has several objectives. The first is to replace the concept of delegate with that of reference. The term prefect's delegate refers to a role clearly identified by the elected officials with a specific positioning, distinct from the prefectial services' training role which would create a new staff, as is the case for the prefect's delegates to city politics. The second objective of the amendment is to complete the name of the reference in order to clarify its scope of action. Finally, the amendment seeks to clarify the tasks entrusted to it: to expand its coordination of the municipalities with the State services, to abolish the task of accompanying the municipalities in the preparation of the dossiers, and to abolish its role of communicating the reports of expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u139	Favourable opinion. The amendment which aims to rename the delegate refers to it – a term which, spontaneously, I use more easily and which legally clarifies the responsibilities – goes in the right direction. At the same time, as you have explained, it repeats certain missions and their distribution between the so-called referent tomorrow and the various state investigation services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u141	Mr Michel-Kleisbauer, nice words are quite rare. Indeed, in all ministerial actions, the priority is to accompany our fellow citizens as closely as possible. I have the habit of saying that, in the social and solidarity economy, the objective, in times of crisis, and especially when we experience natural disasters, is not only to tell our fellow citizens what they are entitled to, but also to explain to them how to activate their rights. You pointed it out by intervening on article 2. The reference's raison d'être, its priority mission, is not so much to accompany on what but on how, when it comes to triggering and deploying aid. I want to confirm that you have received the message: you can count on me to try to make it flourish in other departments. Even if I think that we are all mobilized in this spirit, you do well to remind him. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u142	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u143	In the event of a non-substitution of the delegate by a reference to the compensation of natural disasters, it is appropriate, as the amendment proposes, to rationalize the staff, initially proposed to be deployed at departmental level – either in the ninety-six metropolitan departments and the four overseas departments – by replacing them with a delegate or referent at regional level – or in the thirteen metropolitan regions and the five ultramarine regions. The idea is to reduce the number of delegates by placing them at regional rather than departmental level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u145	As stated in its summary statement, this amendment is in retrospect; But, given that we have adopted the previous amendment, which was intended to replace delegates with referents, it can be considered that it is no longer justified. Furthermore, we consider that, in order to act as closely as possible to the communes, elected representatives and our fellow citizens, the right level is that of the department. In this dual sense, I propose that you withdraw your amendment; in the absence of a negative opinion
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u147	Proximity, simplicity, therefore departmental level. For the same reasons as the rapporteur, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u148	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u149	The aim was indeed, Madam Secretary of State, to simplify. I shall therefore withdraw Amendment No 25, as well as Amendments Nos 28 and 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u150	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u151	It aims to make communication materials available to elected officials in order to explain to the public the various stages of the procedure for the declaration of natural disasters. The rapporteur having indicated in committee that this provision was already provided for elsewhere in the text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u152	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u153	...I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u154	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u155	I confirm that the provision is already included in Article 2 II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u157	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u158	It is intended to add to the missions the assessment of the situation in the affected territories, in order to determine all the aid and compensation schemes that can be mobilised after the occurrence of a natural disaster. I am a Member of Parliament for the Roya, this valley that we have seen in the media because it has suffered the greatest natural disaster in metropolitan France in terms of damage to infrastructure – it is not me or the press who say so, but the various inspectors who have been coming to see the situation on the ground for months. At the slightest rain, there is no road access, only temporary runways. People and businesses can no longer live, not even survive. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For weeks and months, however, we have been asking for aid mechanisms to be studied or established, such as free zones or rural revitalization, even if they are provisional or derogatory rankings, but we do not get any results or answers. I would therefore like the delegate not only to quantify and qualify the natural disaster at the time of its occurrence, but also to accompany the territories and assess the desirability of specific classifications: this is the objective of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u160	I understand very well that the dramatic news of the last few weeks has motivated your amendment. However, the tasks of the departmental focal point for the compensation of natural disasters, which we have detailed, are rather aimed at preventing and accompaniing natural disaster cases. The tasks you are aiming at are important, but they do, I believe, go beyond those of the referent, since they may be the responsibility of the prefecture and state departments, or even the territorial authorities, which can mobilise to establish aid and compensation schemes for a particularly affected territory – the free zones, which you have cited, are one example, but there are others. May the referent be around the table, in particular to help better anticipate future recognitions, be; But the assessment of the situation, the facilitation and definition of aid schemes, particularly financial ones, are not part of its role.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u162	We know Mrs Valetta Ardisson's commitment and her investment in the citizens of her territory, so hard hit. We understand and share the purpose of your amendment. However, it seems to us better to extend the scope of the reference to compensation for natural disasters even more than you do in the amendment, by changing its role, defined in the second sentence of the new article L. 125-1-2 of the insurance code created by the bill: this is the subject of amendment No. 91 by Xavier Paluszkiewicz which has just been adopted. I would like to reiterate, on behalf of the Government, that your objective is shared, even if the means chosen are different. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u163	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u164	I hear your answers, but you will understand that I support the amendment, even knowing that it will be rejected. On the one hand, I am told that this is not the role of the referent; On the other hand, that its mission will be even wider: it is very vague. In my view, the role of the referent is the one that we want to give him. Today there is in the Alpes-Maritimes a prefect delegated to the reconstruction: I would have liked to have been able to anticipate, because it seems to me that this is also the role of the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u165	Mr Benjamin Dirx's amendment No 21 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u166	This amendment provides for annual training sessions. I think it is important to give departmental focal points the flexibility to decide, together with the territories, the right way to train or inform elected officials, victims, municipalities and communities in general. Figuring out the principle of annual training, as the amendment tends to do, seems to me too restrictive: training could follow another pace, or take another form. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u167	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u168	It is intended to introduce into the text an article which reads as follows: "The refusal of a municipality to approve within the prescribed deadlines a plan for the prevention of foreseeable natural risks is enforceable before the administrative court, by means of an appeal for excess of power. Pursuant to article L. 231-1 and L. 231-4 of the Code of Relations between the Public and the Administration, the silence kept by the municipality for the approval of such a document is a decision of rejection after two months. Such a decision of rejection may be challenged before the administrative court, by prefectural referral or, where appropriate, by a litigant having an interest in action. » The amendment therefore seeks to regulate the free administration of local and regional authorities with regard to the prevention of the risks of natural disasters. It specifies that any municipality which refuses to adopt the plan defined by the Prefect upon consultation with local elected representatives is subject to judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u170	I understand your willingness to strongly encourage municipalities to adopt a PPRN. However, the PPRNs and, more generally, the prevention plans that concern the environmental code, are beyond the scope of the proposed legislation. That's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u172	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u173	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u174	It proposes to regulate several provisions on franchises, expected by our fellow citizens, some of which are contained in other amendments. The Government intends to set a maximum franchise limit for smaller companies in order not to interfere with their ability to resume operations following a natural disaster and to allow insurers to align the level of the natural disaster relief free from drought in contracts offered to individuals with that of other guarantees, such as the storm guarantee. This would improve the readability of contracts and reduce the remaining burden on individuals. Finally, it also intends to encourage larger companies to adopt preventive measures by deflating the franchise and allowing insurers to set different deductibles according to the nature of the risks covered. These important measures concern both the protection of our SMEs and of our TPEs, but also of our citizens. They aim to strengthen the commitment of large companies to risk prevention and support. Very expected, they will be the subject of a consultation, so that the decree sets the various parameters at the appropriate levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u176	Very favorable. The evolution of franchises has been a subject that has been debated for a long time, here and elsewhere. Indeed, they are set at different levels depending on the risk of natural disasters, which is perceived as an injustice. A downward modulation therefore goes in the right direction, as does the special treatment of SMEs, which are excluded from the general scheme. I therefore thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these commitments, which will soon be reflected in the order that will be drafted after the consultation. However, I would like to see Xavier Paluszkiewicz's proposal on the possibility of giving special treatment to modest families in the modulation of franchises incorporated into your future reflections. This is an important subject, which I would like to see included in your reflections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u177	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u178	It aims to establish a scale for the graduation of natural disasters. Indeed, in the Alpes-Maritimes, we are regularly victims, alas, of natural disasters of varying importance. However, the principle of balance of the text, necessary to ensure the continuation of the system of compensation for natural disasters, the CATNAT regime, seems to call for compensation differentiated according to the type and extent of the natural disaster. It is not possible to put on the same footing a small natural disaster, like a small movement of land, which will not cause great damage, and what happened for the valleys of Tinea, Roya and Vesubia. This gradation would also enable different processes to be initiated. With this amendment, I therefore call for the establishment of a gradation and the granting of different means depending on it: the greater a natural disaster and the greater the damage caused, the more the State and the insurance companies will have to put in place means to respond to it as best they can and help the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u180	I fully understand your concern, and I do believe that different responses will have to be given depending on the intensity of the natural disaster: will the event be a real natural disaster, or will it fall under another mechanism, perhaps more suitable for disasters not minor but more recurrent, more conventional, under common law? In this second case, it seems to me that we should use the preventive measures I mentioned in my opening remarks, just like those applicable to drought-rehydration episodes. Of course, violent floods will always remain natural disasters – unfortunately. In any event, your concerns will be addressed within the framework of the National Advisory Commission, whose role is to review annually the relevance of the criteria, in the light of the natural disasters that have occurred and the various files managed by the Interdepartmental Commission for the Recognition of the State of Natural Disasters. The committee must assess whether these criteria are set at the right level, in particular, and whether they should be graded as you suggest. It is therefore not the law that will specify these elements, but the national commission that will reflect on them and propose changes, if any. I therefore consider that the tasks of the National Consultative Commission, formulated in a different way, already address your concerns. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u182	It is unfavourable for the same reasons. For the sake of clarity with respect to national representation, I will briefly state that if the proposed graduation may seem relevant, what matters today is whether or not it is a natural disaster, under article L. 125-1 of the Insurance Code. As the rapporteur has explained, it is then the committee that sets the amounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u183	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u184	Thank you for your answers. However, I maintain my amendment and will explain briefly, so as not to waste time on national representation. The problem is insurance. I had tabled amendments which were considered inadmissible. Can't defend them, I invite you to come to the Roya Valley, Madam Secretary of State, where I will welcome you with pleasure. I am in fact firmly convinced, after my colleague from the Var praised your merits earlier, that you will be able to move things forward, reassure and support the people and the traders who are extremely worried. Today, the state of natural disaster does not result in the management of indirect operating losses. In the Roya Valley, however, indirect losses are very large: some businesses, which have not been destroyed, can no longer open since there is simply no road to serve them. Today, they are not compensated. This calls for a gradation between natural disasters. I reiterate, Madam Secretary of State, my invitation to come and meet the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u185	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u186	The purpose of this editorial amendment is to clarify that the national consultative consultation includes members other than those elected under this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u187	I have before me two amendments, Nos 87 and 47, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 87 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u188	The text provides that the National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters shall consist of "four local mandate holders". It seems to me important to clearly foresee the presence of mayors, as the term local mandates may refer to other mandates, such as those of departmental or regional councillor. In addition, all sizes of communes must be represented. My amendment, referring to the "Mayors of the small communes", is ill-written: the concept of a small commune has no legal existence. There are only small communes. In any event, the principle is that mayors are expressly mentioned as members of the national commission, and that municipalities are represented in all their diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u189	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u190	He's unfavorable. We share the concerns expressed. But if one understands what a small commune is, Mr Breton, this concept has no legal validity; I prefer the drafting of Christine Pires Beaune's amendment, which evokes a designation by the Association of Rural Mayors of France. Small municipalities are often – certainly not always – rural communes. In any event, the composition of the commission shall be determined by decree of the Government; In this regard, I hope that the Council will commit itself to a fair representation of all levels of local government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u191	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u192	As we have moved very quickly on to Amendment No 85 by Mr Paluszkiewicz, which we were in favour of, I would like to start by giving some clarifications to clarify the composition of the committee and therefore to respond to the amendments by Mrs Pires Beaune and Mr Breton. The Government's commitment is clear: the National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters is now composed of members other than local and national elected officials specifically provided for in the proposed law. The detailed composition of this committee is not a legislative but a regulatory one. However, we have heard many requests from stakeholders, who rightly wish to sit there – I thank the parliamentarians who have made these concerns known to us. The Government views the Commission as a forum for broad, democratic debate, and especially based on field experience. I can give you some details on what we intend to do: the Government is committed to ensuring that the associations of disaster victims and local elected representatives are represented in all their diversity. In this respect, particular attention will of course be paid to the representation of the mayors of the small communes, in the continuity of the dialogue with the Association of Rural Mayors of France. In order for the discussions to be supported by rigorous scientific analysis, experts, including those from Météo-France, will also be members of the Commission. Insurance bodies, as well as the Central Reinsurance Fund, will also participate in the work and will be able to inform the other members on the conditions of compensation for disaster victims and on the financial balance of the scheme. We have heard legitimate concerns about the participation of insurers in this commission. I can reassure you: neither the Government nor the insurers themselves intend to see these companies occupy an excessive position. The purpose of the committee is really to animate an operational and pluralistic debate, which should allow for voices other than those of the actors directly involved in the operation of the regime. Finally, the administration will also be represented. The Government is against Amendments Nos. 87 and 47 because, I repeat, the composition of the committee is not a matter for the law. But it is essential that the elected representatives, especially those of small rural communes, be represented on this committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u193	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u194	Our commitment on this point is clear, firm and definitive. (Ms Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u195	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u196	[[The Secretary of State and the rapporteur approved]] It is important that rural elected representatives be involved in this commission. Our colleague Paluszkiewicz explained to us that all kinds of plans came after each disaster: PPRIF – forest fire risk prevention plans – PPRI – flood risk prevention plans... The territory I told you about earlier is covered by all these plans. The rural municipalities concerned by the risk of forest fires have found themselves obliged to modify, at their expense, the supply of water to the fire stations, in order to reach a flow far greater than what the municipality usually provides. All local rural politicians know that this is prohibited by hygiene rules, because such overpressure can cause stagnant flows and hygiene problems – not to mention the cost of changing the municipality's water system. This is a mistake made in the past that will not have to be repeated. We hear the commitment you have made, Madam Secretary of State, but I repeat that it is very important to involve rural mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u197	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u198	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u199	I listened very carefully to the remarks of the Secretary of State. We knew that the composition of the commission was not a matter of law; Our amendment sought to draw the Government's attention to the issue of rural mayors. We all share the same observation of opacity, sometimes complexity. It was necessary for the Government to move forward on this issue, and I welcome the progress made. If elected representatives are to be represented, whether they are rural or not, representative associations must be represented as well. This is an important point and we therefore look forward to the decree – unless it is already drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u200	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u201	It was important that we have these exchanges about the representation of rural elected representatives in the National Commission. We have heard your strong commitment to this, Madam Secretary of State; I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u202	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u203	[[Smile on various benches]] I must thank you, Mr. President, because you say my name especially well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u204	Thank you for this tribute; He's appreciated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u205	The purpose of this amendment is to include us in the committee, ladies and gentlemen, in our capacity as parliamentarians. More specifically, it proposes to include two parliamentarians appointed respectively by the presidents of the upper and lower chambers, in order to ensure an essential role of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u207	It is favourable; The precision provided is interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u209	On a subject which concerns Parliament, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u210	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u211	This amendment seeks to clarify that the six members of the National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters do not receive any remuneration, gratuity or compensation in connection with this appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u213	This amendment details the operation of the committee; This is a matter for the future decree. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u214	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u215	This provision governs the term of appointment, so that the National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters will be regularly renewed and the approach used when issuing its annual opinion. To that end, it is proposed to insert, after the fourth sentence of paragraph 2, the following sentence: "The members of the Commission shall be appointed for a non-renewable period of six years and shall be renewed in half every three years. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u216	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u217	This proposal on the duration of the financial year and renewal seems to me to fall within the scope of the regulation, as well as all that relates to the way in which the committee operates. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u218	I call Mrs Mireille Robert to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u219	The aim of this amendment is to involve associations of disaster victims in the various decisions taken at the highest level, so that the reality of the field is known to the decision-making bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u221	Since the Secretary of State has made a very clear commitment to the integration of disaster associations into the National Advisory Commission, I consider this request to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u223	This is always better when I say it, which is why I reiterate the commitment made earlier. This amendment proposes that representatives of disaster associations should sit on the National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters, which the Government is in favour of. However, as this provision falls within the regulatory area, I would like to withdraw it and, failing that, I will issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u224	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u225	The purpose of this amendment is to merge the two committees mentioned in section 4 of the bill. In line with the law of 7 December 2020 on the acceleration and simplification of public action, the aim is to reduce the number of supervisory committees, in order to clarify and simplify the public decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u227	Very unfavourable opinion. The aim of this text is to set up a national advisory commission, independent of the interdepartmental technical commission, which investigates cases on a case-by-case basis. We need both bodies, each having its own way of working. The National Advisory Commission is there to evaluate, audit, audit the work of the interministerial commission and to modify, act, react, in particular on the basis of the criteria mentioned earlier. We share your desire for simplification, which may involve merging or abolishing committees that do not serve or do not serve too much, but I can tell you that this will be very useful for the benefit of our affected citizens. It must be independent, in particular from the inter-ministerial technical commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u229	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons. I would add that we fear that the merger of the committees proposed by this amendment will lead to a form of complexity: in view of the fact that the committees do not have the same purpose, their meeting would not necessarily lead to a structured and relevant organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u230	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u231	My proposal was motivated by a desire for simplification, but I hear the arguments just put forward by the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, and I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u232	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 77 and 79. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u233	This important amendment, which responds to a concern expressed by many Members, including Xavier Breton, who has tabled an identical amendment, is intended to regulate the time taken to process insured persons' files and to pay compensation. The slow pace of the proceedings is one of the main difficulties faced by the victims. In the current state of the law, only one time limit is set for the payment of compensation due by the insurer, which must be within three months "from the date of the release of the estimated condition of the damaged property or the loss suffered". The original bill was intended to reduce the time limit to two months. This amendment is the result of my hearings and a discussion with the Government to go further: it is not enough to set a deadline for payment; It is also necessary to regulate the various stages of compensation so that they do not drag in length, as this leads to intolerable situations for the victims. It is therefore proposed to set a maximum period of one month between receipt of the claim declaration – or publication of the order recognizing the state of natural disaster – and the information of the insured by the insurer on the terms of the coverage and the launch, if deemed necessary by the insurer, of an expert opinion; set a maximum period of one month between receipt of the estimated statement or expert report and the proposal for compensation or compensation in kind; Finally, to fix a maximum period of one month between the agreement of the insured person on the proposal and the payment of compensation or the assignment of an undertaking to carry out the work. After this period of one month, the compensation shall bear interest at the legal rate, which constitutes a novelty; This sanction, introduced by law, will give much more force to the time frame.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u234	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u235	I had tabled amendments in committee to regulate the deadlines for compensation for victims, but which raised some drafting problems. After working with the rapporteur, whom I thank, we have tabled these identical amendments; I believe that they are a great step forward, because it is essential that strict commitments be made in terms of compensation deadlines, but also to improve transparency and readability for those affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u237	This amendment is indeed very important, and I hope that it will be the subject of consensus. Its objective is simple: to strengthen the supervision of time limits against insurers. The Government strongly supports this provision, which should reduce the time required for victims to receive compensation. The President of the Republic has made this acceleration of the processing of the files of natural disaster victims one of the priority axes of the evolution of the regime. The framework proposed by these amendments has the virtue of adapting to operational realities by imposing constraints only when procedures and actions are the responsibility of the insurer. The Government also agrees that, under these conditions, a penalty should be provided for failure to pay the compensation one month after the insured has accepted the compensation proposed by the insurer. I repeat that the Government is extremely in favour of these amendments, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the national representative – in this case, the rapporteur and Mr Breton – for proposing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u238	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u239	I will endeavour to be as clear as the purpose of the Government's amendment, which seeks to ensure sufficient compensation to put an end to existing disorders when the effect of the drought affects the solidity of the building or renders the damaged property unfit for its purpose. This amendment is intended to address an extremely serious concern of our fellow citizens, who are witnessing a worsening of the damage caused by drought over time. This concern has been relayed for several years by parliamentarians, who have themselves proposed solutions to address it. This is to place the same burden on all insurers, i.e., to provide compensation to fully respond to the issues in the most serious cases. In practice, this often involves financing important back-up work. This is already what the majority of insurers are doing, but thanks to this amendment, we are making sure that this will now be the norm. In order to respect the principle of compensation, which is one of the pillars of insurance, it is nevertheless essential that this obligation be limited to serious cases, i.e. those where the solidity or use of the property is called into question. An extension of this obligation beyond serious cases would also seriously threaten the principle of compensation, but also the balance of the regime that I had allowed myself to mention in the general discussion. The risk of drought is an important concern for the Government, and we wish to include in this bill additional measures in this regard. This will be done during the parliamentary shuttle, and the proposed measures will be based on the recommendations made by the inspection mission, which has been mandated to deal specifically with drought issues, and which will deliver its findings by March. I repeat, this amendment is important, since it aims to ensure the support of our fellow citizens whose drought is endangering property and to ensure that we do so without undermining the balance of this regime. We still have work to do, an inspection mission is under way, and we will make further proposals by March to better support our fellow citizens on this issue of drought.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u241	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for this comment and for the presentation of this clarification amendment to which the committee is very much in favour. Nevertheless, as you yourself have pointed out, we see that there are still concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u242	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u243	Your amendment seeks to find the correct wording to include work to put an end to existing disorders, particularly in serious situations. It remains a point of vigilance: we will have to see how to reassure building professionals like the victims during the shuttle, especially in view of the report you mentioned. It is important not to limit compensation to serious cases; lesser damage, considered superficial or even purely aesthetic, must also be borne by insurers. But I have heard your commitment to rework the editorial staff to meet expectations, as closely as possible to the different concrete cases that we encounter on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u244	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u245	Repairs made as a result of a land movement caused by drought must take into account the best available techniques, so that they are as sustainable as possible. The amendment would avoid some pitfalls encountered in practice by disaster victims. In too many cases, in fact, insurers save on long-term work, preferring to finance non-permanent superficial work and leaving the disaster-stricken poor in future claims. Insurers may also refuse to fully compensate the work, considering that one party is a matter of improvement, whereas these are made necessary, on the one hand, by the disaster itself, on the other hand, by law, by the evolution of standards or by the taking into account of the rules of art.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u247	This amendment deals with the same subject as the Government's important amendment that we have just adopted, but with much more vague wording – it refers to "the extent of the damage suffered". I therefore propose that you withdraw it, in view of the strong commitments of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u248	You take it off, Mrs. Robert?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u249	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u250	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u251	This amendment and the following were prepared with the association "Les Oubliés de la heatcule", including its representative in my department of Ain, Ms. Hélène Niktas, and its president, Mr. Gérald Grosdaughtery. It concerns cases where the victims are not informed of the publication of the natural disaster order or which late establish a link between drought and deterioration of their property – they may have noticed a small crack apparently without consequence, but the severity of it will be several weeks or months later. They should not be able to object to the statutory 30-day time limit for reporting claims. We therefore propose that the "latest date be chosen between the date of knowledge of the disaster in its magnitude and the date of knowledge of a natural disaster order".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u253	In committee, we asked for this amendment to be withdrawn because the date "of the knowledge of the disaster in its magnitude" is difficult to identify. For spectacular disasters, such as the one recently experienced in the Alpes-Maritimes department, the date will be clear and precise but in the case of drought-rehydration of the soil, we are in a long time. Your wording is too vague and I ask you again to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u254	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u255	These amendments were defended by our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz in committee, where it was pointed out that they were based on good ideas but that their drafting was problematic. It is important that we can continue to work, through the shuttle, on these proposals, which seem to me to be a response to real concerns. In some cases, non-permanent repairs are financed; They then generate second generation sinisters. Each stakeholder then rejects responsibility during procedures that last for years, and which are detrimental to the victim whose housing continues to deteriorate after work, whereas he should have obtained a lasting and complete reparation from the outset. Sometimes, the company's ten-year warranty does not work for non-compliant repairs, and if the company has disappeared, the disaster sufferers are left unsolved. We propose in Amendment No 50 that Article 5, paragraph 3, be supplemented by the following sentence: "Each actor involved in the management of the disaster shall be liable for ten years from the date of receipt of the work, as a professional, for his or her performance. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u257	Again, this amendment poses a drafting problem. It can be reworked as part of the shuttle. I understand that you are concerned about the long-term commitment of the various stakeholders, but the wording you have chosen – "every actor involved in disaster management" – can apply to both the architect and the insurer, the contractor and a building company. However, they are subject to contractual or regulatory commitments under the Civil Code and the Construction and Housing Code. Guarantees are therefore already enshrined in the law. You will always be able to tell me that these are very special cases and that it is important to go even further by imposing ten-year guarantees on all actors, particularly construction companies – because this seems to me to be the spirit of your amendment, although, I repeat, the wording seems too broad. Let us take a very concrete example: in the case of a pipeline replacement displaced by a movement caused by drought-rehydration, it would not be appropriate to subject the plumber to a 10-year guarantee which would have carried out such a minor intervention. The professions involved and the nature of the work should be clarified. We can see that there is a distinction to be made between masonry or masonry companies and those which carry out interventions to recover the work. This amendment is too vague and I would ask you to withdraw it and rework it in the space shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u258	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u259	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u260	Do you agree to withdraw it, Mr. Breton?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u261	Yes, Mr President, in the light of the rapporteur's comments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u262	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u263	We propose to clarify that the insurer is required to inform the affected person that he or she may be assisted by an expert of his or her choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u265	I had committed myself in committee to reworking this text with Mr Breton for the sitting. This is done with Amendment No 69, in which I propose that it withdraw its amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u267	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u268	I withdraw the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u269	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u270	The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen the insurer's obligations with regard to information and transparency: on the one hand, it must communicate to the insured the expert reports and studies relating to the claim in question; On the other hand, he must mention in the contract that the insured may request a counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u272	Favourable opinion. We have reworked the drafting to strengthen the information of the insured through the transmission of certain documents and clarifications on the possibility of resorting to counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u273	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u274	The bill already provides for the cost of geotechnical studies and I welcome the progress it has made. The Government proposes to go further: this important amendment is intended to include the cost of architecting and managing works in the compensation scheme where they are made necessary by the restoration of the property. This is a significant step forward for our fellow citizens who are victims of natural disasters, who will thus be better accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u275	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u276	Very favourable opinion. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these additional provisions which are in line with the aim of better covering the costs incurred by our affected fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u277	I call Mrs Mireille Robert to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u278	On average, four years separate a drought-related claim from its compensation. This particularly long delay is detrimental to the victims. This situation is the result of a lack of supervision of each stage of the file. It therefore seems appropriate that consideration should be given to shortening the time limit for investigation and strengthening supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u280	We have just responded to this legitimate concern in article 5: there is provision for a rapid pace of investigation and payment of compensation, as well as potential sanctions. That is in line with your amendment, which I consider satisfied. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u282	I am going to surprise you, Mr President: I do not have exactly the same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u283	That puts a little salt in our debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u284	Significant progress has already been made on the deadline: a reduction to two months for the publication of the decree recognising the state of natural disaster and, on the initiative of the rapporteur and Mr Breton, a framework for the time limits applicable to insurers. Amendment No 17 aims to improve knowledge and understanding of the specificities of the deadlines for compensation for damage caused by the withdrawal and swelling of clay soils. The Government does not mind and relies on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u285	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u286	I accept this wisdom, Madam Secretary of State, because this amendment makes it possible to go further in improving compensation times.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u287	Perfect, Mr. Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u288	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u289	The aim of this amendment is to increase from 18 to 24 months the deadline for the municipalities to submit an application for recognition of the state of natural disaster. We are always in the same spirit: to extend the deadlines for the benefit of insured persons and also of the communities, so that they can better organize themselves in exceptional circumstances. The aim is to draw the consequences from the fact that the damage may appear some time after the occurrence of certain phenomena. Of course, I am thinking of the drought-rehydration of the soil, but also of the movement of land or the rise of groundwater. This amendment, it is important to stress, also deletes a provision from the insurance code which has become obsolete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u291	Favourable opinion. This amendment reinforces the original spirit of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u292	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the groups The Republic on the move and the Democratic Movement (Modem) and related democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u293	Mr Benjamin Dirx's amendment No 22 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u294	The Secretary of State has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u295	It is a question of deleting the pledge article. The Government thus expresses its support for the general balance of the bill, which, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, enhances the transparency of the regime, as well as the coverage of victims and prevention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u296	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u297	We are not going to repeat the debate, but I stress the need to strengthen the measures taken here. It is absolutely urgent not to forget the drought phenomena. The rapporteur stressed that fair concerns still remain. The Secretary of State clarified that the concern for drought risk is of paramount importance to the Government; We take note of this, and we hope that on the occasion of the parliamentary shuttles, this element will be better taken into account. In view of the very positive developments that it entails, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u299	The next speaker is Mrs Sereine Mauborgne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u300	The proposal for a law tabled by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats should be unanimous, as shown by the content of our debates. A large number of elected representatives have been questioned, starting with us parliamentarians, on the regime for the compensation of natural disasters. The La République en marche Group welcomes the progress made by this text, which demonstrates our commitment to this issue and the real collective expectations in this regard. The procedures for recognizing the state of natural disasters will be simplified, as will the procedures for those affected. The dialogue between the State and local elected representatives will be strengthened by the creation of a focal point for each department's prefect. The compensation scheme will be even more transparent, thanks to a motivation associated with any ministerial decision on a request for recognition of the state of natural disasters, as well as the establishment of an inter-ministerial commission and a national advisory commission on natural disasters. The time limit for making an application for recognition of the state of natural disaster will be extended from eighteen to twenty-four months. The time frame for compensation will be stricter; the remedies for victims, in the event of a negative decision, will be specified. Emergency relocation costs will be covered. The risks and damage caused by drought and the withdrawal and swelling of clays will be taken into account. Finally, the legal regime relating to franchises will be clarified, with the cap on the franchise for SMEs and the possible alignment of the CATNAT non-drain franchise with the level of other guarantees – such as the storm guarantee – with the sole aim of implementing all possible preventive measures. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This bill therefore meets the requirement to change the French compensation system, which dates back to 1982, and to take a major step forward. We welcome him and support the spirit of better risk insurance and better care for those affected. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, as well as our colleague Xavier Paluszkiewicz, who has followed up on it for the Republic on the move. We can make an appointment for the so-called 4D law – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration and decomplexation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u301	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u302	This text is, of course, in the right direction. It responds to a need that can be seen across all territories. I will take the example of a small constituency like mine, which has seventy-six communes: twenty-one of them have been affected by the last drought phenomenon and have been confronted with the difficulties of the procedure. In view of the duration of the damage, the lengthening of the deadlines obviously makes sense, as does the strengthening of transparency, in often opaque procedures which lead to incomprehension. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore an excellent bill that we will vote without a state of mind, and we will do so with all the more energy and will, given that parliamentary work has been of high quality and that amendments of all sensitivities have been adopted. That is the spirit of our House when it comes to a subject of general interest which concerns all the territories and all the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u303	Mrs Béatrice Descamps, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u304	Our group will vote on this bill, which is a significant step forward. It has also been enriched – and I insist on it – by the work carried out in committee and the quality of our debates in the sitting. On this particularly important subject, the reflection will have to continue in order to better accompany our fellow citizens. You have spoken and committed yourself to this, Madam Secretary of State. As a northernist, Member of Parliament for the Hauts-de-France region, I have previously referred to clay soils. I would add that all the necessary attention should also be paid to the mining communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u305	Mrs Marietta Karamanli, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u306	As we have described earlier, we welcome the progress made in this text, this first step towards resolving a situation that affects our citizens on a regular basis, and more and more frequently. We regret, however, that you did not wish to add an incentive tax component, as Senator Nicole Bonnefoy did in a bill to reform the natural disaster regime, adopted unanimously in the Senate. These are two complementary proposals; It would have allowed us to speed up the movement and strengthen your own bill. I welcome the Government's commitment to make the decisions more transparent, by providing for a broader membership of the National Advisory Commission, which is more open to relevant actors. I also stress the fact that some texts sometimes lack clarity, such as the decree of May 2019, which, unfortunately, made it possible to rule out many situations before they were examined by the Consultative Commission. We will therefore support the bill. Nevertheless, for the future, we expect a commitment – which was recalled earlier by the Secretary of State – to a much more comprehensive text, particularly in the area of insurance. As co-chair of the National Assembly's Insurance Study Group, I can tell you that we have studied this issue and that we are in a position to make very concrete proposals to move forward on the tax side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u307	Mr Benoit Simian, for the Libertés et territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u308	When we come from the west, or from the south-west like me, we can only rejoice at such a bill. The text aims to increase transparency and assist local elected officials, including mayors, who are increasingly faced with these hazards. One third of French people are affected by the risks of flooding, drought, storm and submersion. It's a big deal. On behalf of the Liberties and Territories Group, I welcome this text and the quality of the debates. I thank the Secretary of State and we will naturally vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u309	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (MODEM) and allied Democrats
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u310	I will not dwell on our voting position, which you know. I meant, as an organ of this beautiful day of co-construction, of collective work, how pleasant it is to work in these conditions. That gives meaning to our mission as MPs. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups as well as on many other benches]] The four bills discussed today are in line with the progress and improvement of the lives of the French. It's very satisfying and I wanted to point it out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u311	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u312	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 72 Number of votes cast 72 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 72 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u313	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u314	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] I know that you are in a hurry and that your fellow citizens are waiting for you in your constituencies, but I very much want to thank you for the quality of our exchanges. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Stéphane Baudu, and the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, who tabled this bill as part of its niche. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, I sincerely thank all of you because, in the face of natural disasters, we need national unity. I said in introduction, Jean Giraudoux wrote: "The privilege of the great is to see the disasters of a terrace. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the privilege of Members of Parliament, on days like this, is to see national unity at the service of real subjects and to strengthen the support of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much for the quality of our work and our debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-28-O1141.u315	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Further discussion of the bill to strengthen the fight against animal abuse. The meeting is adjourned.
