ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u1	The next item is the debate on the reports of the Joint Joint Committees on the proposal for an organic law on the modernization of the management of public finances and on the proposal for a law on various provisions relating to the High Council for Public Finance and on the information of the Parliament on public finances (No 4667, 4668). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u2	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur of the Joint Committees, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u3	We are almost at the end of a long process that began more than three years ago. I will not go into the details of all the work we have done since the creation of the information mission on the implementation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws (MILOLF); President Woerth will return. I will consider two important aspects of the process: first, it was a trans-party work involving all the political families of the Assembly and the Senate; Then it was a parliamentary initiative, in the image and in respect of the approach of the founding fathers of the Organic Law on the Laws of Finance (LOLF), Didier Migaud and Alain Lambert to which I wish to pay tribute this morning. Of course, this parliamentary initiative was carried out in close cooperation with the Government, which I would like to thank for its listening, its support and the mobilization of the agenda. Now I'm going to the bottom. First of all, let us recall the objectives of this bill: a better multi-year management of our public finances, what we have repeatedly repeated, a more rigorous application of our budgetary principles, namely the principles of unity and universality, and a rationalisation of parliamentary discussion in order to strengthen our capacity to monitor and, above all, evaluate public policies. Nevertheless, we did not wish to propose a public finance revolution, since LOLF is already a revolution of sufficient importance for this text to be rather a good development. In fact, I believe that we have reached the end of the normative evolution and that the rest of the spirit of the LOLF will depend above all on the practices of both of us, of course, those of any public decision-maker, but above all of the public managers. I would also like to anticipate a criticism which will not fail to be raised and which we have already heard: with this revision of the LOLF, it is not in any way a question of favouring, through this text, a particular political orientation. It is obviously not an austere text, but a new and improved framework for our discussions so that they are as transparent and effective as possible. Each government will, of course, remain free to conduct the policy for which it was elected. It's better to say it. Compared to the text adopted by our Assembly last July, the text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee (JC) retains the main measures that formed the framework for it, while retaining some good progress made by the Senate, with which dialogue has often been demanding but always constructive. I would like to dwell on a few points that we have shared with honourable senators, and first of all, that of investment expenditures, which was ardently defended by President Woerth. The CMP agreed on a compromise solution whereby each law on public finance programming should include an investment expenditure target. This is a landmark major step forward and will probably inspire other new budgetary rules, including European ones. We also accepted the Senate's proposal to create a right of access for the Finance Committees to tax statistics in order to develop computer tools for tax simulation, a bit like we had begun in a very early but useful way with LexImpact, always with a view to improving our capacity to evaluate public policies. We are often asked what the quinquennium has done best for the evaluation and strengthening of Parliament: this is a very concrete example. I also welcome the fact that our friends in this chamber have agreed to go back to the text of the National Assembly on an important issue, that of affected taxes. This is a major element which will certainly have a significant impact in the coming years, and that is why we have spread it over time, but I remain convinced that a better framework for the allocation of taxes in our country is the key condition for better consent to tax. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group – Charles de Courson also applauds]] I shall conclude my remarks with an evolution, in my view, extremely structuring for our Assembly and our democracy: the establishment, for the first time, of a report and a debate on public debt. We have drawn up a compromise text with senators allowing each chamber to retain its specificity and autonomy at the time of the debate, but the important thing is that this debate on the sustainability of public debt in France and the conditions for financing this debt take place. This, too, is a major step forward that we can welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u5	Let me first indicate to you the presence among us, which you have accepted, of Clement Chadenet who, as part of the DuoDay, will accompany me throughout the day. Almost three years have passed since the establishment of the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, which led to the proposal for an organic law of which you are voting the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee. I would like to apologize to you for Mr. Olivier Dussopt, who was unable to be present today and who gives me the pleasure of being with you. The Organization Act on Finance Laws celebrated its twentieth anniversary on 1 August. Through it, and for nearly two decades now, Parliament and successive governments have worked to bring public finance management closer to the fundamental principle of transparency laid down in Article 14 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, which states: "Citizens have the right to observe, by themselves or by their representatives, the need for public contribution [...]. On the occasion of this anniversary, we can therefore pay tribute to the founders of the LOLF, who have greatly contributed, through their work and determination, to improving our budgetary architecture. First of all, it has deepened Parliament's rights in many respects. To take just a few examples, the latter examines and votes the means of the state by public policy rather than by budgets of the ministries. We are thus discussing the real purpose of the appropriations, which was not the case before 2001, although it is essential to make transparency on the use of the public contribution. Parliament also voted on all the appropriations for each budget mission, which was not the case before the LOLF, because, as I recall, the previous year's appropriations were simply renewed by a single vote. Finally, Parliament can amend budgetary appropriations, which represents a significant and profound improvement in the right of amendment. While the financial admissibility provided for in article 40 of the Constitution remains, the Organic Law on Finance Laws has already considerably eased this constraint by allowing the tabling of parliamentary amendments to modify the resources allocated to budgetary programmes, whereas the tabling of such amendments was simply not possible in the past. It is also a success in terms of the performance of public expenditure. The progress made by this text is undeniable in this regard. Thus, Parliament has a valuable tool, budgetary documentation, ours being one of the richest in the world. This is indeed the assessment of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in its 2018 report. It considers that budgetary information is transparent, precise and allows for a much finer measure of expenditure efficiency than elsewhere. It is therefore a concrete means for Parliament to control the budget, which also contributes to the democratisation of information on public finances. However, despite these successes and advances, practice has not exhausted the full potential of LOLF. We must take advantage of the means available to us. Much has been done to ensure that the budgetary accounting and management rules accompany the LOLF movement, but our efforts must continue, both on the part of Parliament and the Government, to ensure that the evaluation of the performance of public expenditure is real and concrete and that the justification for the first euro really replaces the discussion on the only new measures, both in Parliament and in the administrations. Beyond the practice and the question of the mobilization of the resources offered by the LOLF, everyone agrees today that this framework must find a second breath. That is the will expressed by the chairman of the Finance Committee and the rapporteur-general, who are the authors of this proposal for an organic law. This bill is the result of high-quality trans-party parliamentary work, which is a school case. It begins with the rebirth of the LOLF information mission by the chairman of the committee, Éric Woerth, the rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin and Joël Giraud from the beginning of 2019. His work culminated in the drafting of an organic bill tabled in the first half of 2021. The authors of this proposal for an organic law have also benefited from the advice of the Council of State, in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Constitution since 2008. The Government contributed to the reflection, in particular by asking the commission chaired by Jean Arthuis to make proposals on issues of governance of public finances. She has fulfilled her mission, which, I think, has been very useful. I welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, as it reflects the institutional balance that has been reached despite political differences. The proposed organic law is a major step forward in the management of our public finances. It consolidates Parliament's powers by bringing an additional stone to the effort to improve the quality and efficiency of the budgetary debate, in the service of the control of our public finances. The first objective of the text we are discussing is to include a multiannual dimension in the budget discussion. This is an essential contribution to the Government. Whether it is the Committee on the Future of Public Finance, chaired by Jean Arthuis, or the Court of Auditors, the observation is similar: there is a lack of pluriannuality in the programming of our public finances. The proposal for an organic law provides for a rule on expenditure that will allow us to place ourselves even more in a multi-year control of our public finances. This expenditure objective is all the more important as the Government will be able to rely on the vigilance of the High Council for Public Finance (HCFP) to detect discrepancies between what was planned and what has been done. The text tends to consolidate discussions on public debt management, to which the French seem more sensitive than ever. To this end, a specific report is planned and an annual debate on the modalities of debt financing is to be held, which needs to be addressed in a dispassionate manner. The second objective is to continue to strengthen the sincerity of financial laws in line with the recommendations of Jean Arthuis's report. If this proposal for an organic law is adopted, the Government will have to justify any deviations from the trajectory provided for in the Public Finance Programming Act, even before the introduction of the Finance Bill (PLF). This is in the direction of a more transparent budget cycle, to which the Government is particularly committed. The proposal for an organic law also provides for a review by the High Council for Public Finance of the compatibility of the provisions of the sectoral programming bills with those of the law on the programming of public finances: it is a provision in the service of budgetary sincerity. The aim is to establish the credibility of public finance programming laws by preventing other programming laws from undermining compliance with them and to guarantee the means available to the State for the implementation of programming laws. Fiscal sincerity only makes sense if financial laws are understandable: it is a democratic issue. The aim of the present proposal for an organic law is therefore to reorganise the presentation of financial laws with a view to improving their legibility and transparency: it is also a step towards greater respect for constitutional principles that the Organic Law on Finance Laws was committed to rooting in our practice. The Act provides for improved information to be provided to Parliament, following the 2001 Organic Act. In his information report, Alain Lambert summed up the spirit of this law: "Parliamentary control over public finances is an ardent obligation without which the functions of Parliament cannot really be exercised. This is what Article 4 calls for by providing for the submission of a report to Parliament on the state of local public finances. This provision opens up the possibility of allowing time for ad hoc budgetary discussion on this issue and will allow us to have a broader view than if we were left to examine the appropriations of the Mission Relations with Local and Regional Authorities alone. The proposed organic law also improves the legislative process. Indeed, the strengthening of Parliament's powers also requires a reorganisation of the legislative timetable. With regard to the general scoping, the debate on the direction of public finances will be re-founded, replacing it with an obligation for the Government to provide Parliament with the ceilings of appropriations per mission in the summer. There will therefore be a single debate on both the direction of public finances at the time of the presentation of the stability programme in April and on this stability programme. Finally, the text was enriched by parliamentary debates and by the Joint Joint Committee. To mention just a few of the contributions, the debates in both chambers have streamlined the budget discussion on the affected taxes, which will now be considered as a whole in the first part of the finance law. Their leadership has also been strengthened to improve budgetary sincerity. Parliament's information has also been further increased by giving the chairmen and rapporteurs-general of the Finance Committees access to all the information which is subject to statistical or fiscal secrecy. Let me call for vigilance on one of the provisions that have been agreed between the two chambers. Article 4b, as derived from the CMP, provides that when an amount of appropriations in excess of EUR 100 million is urgently to be opened using the appropriation for accidental or unpredictable expenditure, the Government must inform the finance committees at least three days before the publication of the decree opening these appropriations. We understand this requirement of information and transparency. However, caution must be exercised, as this allocation is allocated, among other things, to meet emergency needs. However, we can only exclude in the future a situation of exceptional urgency, which we obviously wish to see very rare, requires a massive and very rapid opening of appropriations. This would be such an emergency that it would be impossible to wait three days without the very negative consequences of this expectation. In this case, some flexibility may apply. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an organic law helps to equip the State with new tools, which are valuable to Parliament and the Government. I am convinced that, through our debates in both the House and the Senate, we have helped to further enrich it. On behalf of Olivier Dussopt, I would like to warmly thank all the Members who took part in these debates and, once again, to thank in particular the rapporteur and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance for the tremendous work they have done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u6	I call Mr Eric Woerth, Vice-Chairman of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u7	Work on this proposal for a trans-party organic law and co-built with the Senate began a long time ago – three years ago – when we decided, together with Joël Giraud and Laurent Saint-Martin, to relaunch the MILOLF launched in 2003 by Gilles Carrez. The aim was then to take stock of the LOLF twenty years after its adoption, in order to measure what had worked and what was needed to reform and improve. Contrary to appearances, this text is nothing but an accounting or technical text: it is above all a political text, in the best sense of the term, which makes our financial laws, which are at the heart of our democracy, and probably the first link of our democracy, more legible, comprehensible and more effective. In September 2019, we concluded a report with more than forty proposals, some of which were organic in nature. The drafting of a bill, with the involvement of the Government and the Senate, was launched in the wake and resulted in the tabling of two bills, one organic and the other ordinary. As in 2000, given the importance of the subject and its legal complexity, we sought the advice of the Council of State, which President Ferrand accepted, and I thank him for that. Laurent Saint-Martin and I were thus able to be heard by the General Assembly of the Council of State and to enrich the text of the latter's suggestions in order to consolidate it legally. The experience was very instructive and the exchange of high quality. The legislative proposals that we have put forward are, moreover, quite consistent with the proposals made recently by Jean Arthuis and the Court of Auditors in reports discussed by our House. The examination of the texts by the Assembly, and then by the Senate, has made it possible to improve things without calling into question the broad lines of our proposals: we have thus been able to strengthen the multi-year control of our public finances, to build a more meaningful and comprehensible reading grid of the budget, to distinguish between operating and investment expenditure, to restrict derogations from the main principles such as the universality of taxation, and to streamline the parliamentary review in the fall – God knows that it is in need, as many of us here know! – and throughout the year, with a better articulation of existing debates and a new time for very strong political exchanges around debt and local finances. We have also extended, and I welcome it, the competence of the High Council for Public Finance. The text of the CMP is part of this ambition. As has already been pointed out, no revolution was possible – nor, indeed, desirable – with a constant constitutional framework, but the work accomplished is a necessary, effective and useful work. Since the rapporteur has already presented many of the main points of this text, I will concentrate on some of them. First of all, as Laurent Saint-Martin mentioned, the distinction between investment and operation. After many meetings on the subject, we reached an agreement within the CMP: we will incorporate into the law of public finance programming a forecast of the volume of investment expenditure of public administrations, in billions of euros. The identification of these investment expenditures will be presented for each period in the report annexed to the Programming Act. It will be based on a new definition that is less accounting than the one currently included in the LOLF: investment expenditure is considered investment when its contribution to the potential growth of the gross domestic product and to the structural transformation of the country and to its long-term social and environmental development is acquired. This definition corresponds fairly well to the way the Government presents a major investment plan called France 2030 or a stimulus plan that devotes certain investments. In addition, the introductory article to each finance law will update, for the year in question, the status of the forecasts for investment expenditure, in accordance with this new definition. All this is very well linked with the idea of a debt debate that will inaugurate the autumn fiscal season. Finally, the balancing article will include a breakdown of resources and expenses according to these two operating and investment categories, based on the current classification of government expenditure in seven titles. Further reflection on this subject will be necessary and will continue to enrich it. In conclusion, I would like once again to thank all the parliamentarians and administrators who have contributed to the drafting of this organic bill and its joint adoption. In this connection, I would like to remind you that President Ferrand is organizing in a week's time at the National Assembly a symposium on the twenty years of the LOLF. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the LT group]] It is often presented as our financial constitution and I would like to pay tribute to Didier Migaud and Alain Lambert in this regard. We are concerned to bequeath to our children sound public finances, and this depends above all on the political will, which no text, even a constitutional one, can replace. However, I am convinced that the revision of the LOLF that we are proposing today is a useful and necessary brick for this building. When we have voted on the conclusions of the CMP, we can say that there were not many of us, but that we were there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u8	In the general debate, Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u9	I'm going to talk to you about a time that less than twenty years of term cannot know. In 2001, we adopted a new financial constitution, the Organic Law on Finance Laws – the LOLF for insiders. This text was adopted when no one believed it, especially thanks to the efforts and perseverance of our colleagues Didier Migaud, Alain Lambert and Gille Carrez – and a little bit of your humble colleague. We had finally reformed the order of 2 January 1959, this historic monument classified and impossible to modify. We hoped that this first reform would lead to greater budgetary rigour and increase Parliament's prerogatives, promote the evaluation of public policies and lead to a more reasonable management of public finances. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. While progress has been notable and beneficial, the organic law cannot substitute for the lack of political will. I come to the heart of the two texts resulting from the agreement reached on Monday evening in the Joint Joint Committee. How can they contribute to improving the management of our public finances? The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the progress they have made, which should be welcomed. I am thinking in particular of the recasting of our budgetary timetable, the best link with our European commitments, the setting of expenditure and expenditure growth targets, and the strengthening of the role of the High Council for Public Finance, not to mention the distinction between operating and investment expenditure. The possibility of spending on public debt, which now flirts with the EUR 3000 billion mark a debate in the Senate and the National Assembly has become a necessity. All this is in the right direction and our group fully supports these provisions. On this occasion I would like to welcome Eric Woerth, Vice-President of the CMP, and Laurent Saint-Martin, their rapporteur, as well as our late Joël Giraud,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u10	[[Smile]] He's not dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u11	...for the work they did. When you want to retouch such an important text, you have to do so with a certain skill. I think that has been the case. In addition, the Joint Joint Committees retained key changes. I note with humor that my amendment to limit the authority to carry appropriations into finance law to 5%, rejected at first reading, has had a more favourable fate in the Senate and has finally been adopted in CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u12	It's not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u13	He's very close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u14	It's more prestigious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u15	I also welcome the removal of the attempt to limit the scope of the budget questionnaires. Despite these advances, our group has some regrets. I have no doubt that they will be satisfied in the next 20 years. We must always leave room for improvement to his successors! In this sense, the powers of the Special Rapporteurs of the Commission are still too limited and would benefit from being increased. I would remind you that, in its 2019 report, the fact-finding mission on LOLF, MILOLF, pointed out that our former colleague Amélie de Montchalin, now a minister, when she was rapporteur of the research mission, had been refused by the tax administration the transmission of certain information on the research tax credit. The current practice, therefore, still severely limits the powers of parliamentarians in the exercise of their functions. In addition, I have also alerted you to the unconstitutionality of the new wording of Article 11. It intends to entrust some of the powers of control and evaluation of the presidents and rapporteurs-general of the committees of the two chambers to certain designated "public officials". It does not seem to me desirable to retain such wording: these sovereign powers should not be delegated. Our group therefore looks forward to the decision to be rendered by the Constitutional Council, the organic laws being submitted to it on its own initiative without prior referral. Finally, I would like to express one last regret which refers to a budget fight that I have been fighting for almost thirty years. It would have been desirable to adopt the golden rule, a strict rule of equilibrium of operation adopted for many years by local and regional authorities. We could have drawn inspiration from our German neighbours who, in article 110 of their Grundgesetz – for my non-German speaking colleagues, understand their fundamental constitutional law – explicitly enshrine the application of this rule, except in exceptional circumstances. Beyond these few reservations, the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote in favour of these two texts, as it did at first reading. [[Applause on committee benches]] However, let us not overestimate the capacity of the LOLF to promote good public financial management. It is only an instrument in the hands of public managers; They have to make good use of it. As Baron Louis said: "Sire, do me good politics, I will make you good finances."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u16	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u17	Two days ago, at a conference held at the École d'économie in Paris, I heard Éric Woerth recall that the recovery that the Government welcomes did not erase the loss of wealth production due to the crisis. As I have always been concerned about it, I am rather reassured that this fact is finally recognized by others. What bothers me, on the other hand, is the conclusions that are drawn from this finding and the solutions that are proposed. It must be said that I am beginning to know the liberals' tricks to weaken the state and the protection of peoples: I see them coming! This crisis, this expenditure and the two years of production losses that we have suffered are often used as an ideal pretext to justify budgetary bleeds and the continuation of the depopulation of the State. That, in my view, is the main objective of the reform that we are discussing – I will come back to that. However, two days ago, at the same conference organised by the Institute of Public Policy (IPP), which was attended by other Members of the Finance Committee, I also heard François Lenglet admit that, without the expenditure exceptionally incurred during the crisis, the debt could have reached up to 30 points of GDP more. This is proof, if one more is needed, that spending more can often be beneficial and necessary, even from a purely financial point of view. The problem is that the established facts and the results of studies such as that of the PPI seem to slip on the pens of the Government without ever diverting it from its absurd objectives. The crisis is not even over that it has already resumed the same thing: quickly, you have to repay the debt! So, quickly, we have to reduce the deficit! So, quickly, we have to cut spending! As usual, we are stuck by the same counter-productive solution that they bring to all the problems: to comply with the arbitrary rules of Brussels and satisfy the financial markets, we should spend less, much less than the people need. And the right, that is to say the Government and its ad hoc allies, is now on a new course with this reform of the LOLF. It is because of its objective that this reform is so worrying. The chronology speaks for itself. In March, the Arthuis report was released. In April, his recommendations were included in the stability programme, i.e. in the form of promises made in Brussels. And in May, this reform came before our assembly to set the first milestones of this project aimed at forcing the spending of the state to a historically low level in the years to come and drastically reducing the debt rate. To achieve this, the principle applied is as simple as it is scandalous: it is a matter of subjecting the State budget to a multi-year expenditure standard established at each beginning of the term, which would be monitored annually by an unelected external body, probably the High Council for Public Finance. In short, it is a question of undermining the democracy and power of our parliament by subjecting it even more to the destructive logic of austerity. It is this logic that is reflected in the texts that you want us to vote on today, as they are the first milestones in the application of this binding multi-year standard, even though, as you know, they favour better information for parliamentarians. The problem is that even to play good students in Brussels, the Government is still next to the plaque. This logic of reducing public expenditure at all costs is the same as that which caused Greece and Spain to sink ten years ago. Because of the fact that it is contradicted, it appears outdated, even in the United States, where the Secretary of State for the Treasury stated that "economic competition is no longer about the least-so-called tax but about the quality of the infrastructure of the training system". Colleagues, even if you want to race for the Liberal competition, it would be time to get to the page! The priority today, in the face of our country's needs, in the face of the crisis, in the face of poverty and debt, is not to cut the triggers. On the contrary, the priority is to take advantage of the very low rates to borrow, spend and invest in the general interest and ecological forklift. The priority is to regain our financial sovereignty, not by narrowing down on the needs of our schools and hospitals, but by emancipating themselves from the financial markets and absurd rules of Brussels. And if you think that the magnitude of the debt contracted during the covid-19 is a problem, my solution to me is simple: let's cancel it! We have the means to do so, I explain it very simply in the book I just published, but you may not have all read it yet. I also explain why debt is generally a pretext and a false problem, as the Senate report by Eric Bocquet and Sophie Vermeillet has just confirmed. Instead of responding to the crisis and the loss of production that we have just wiped out by five years of misery, let go of the debt and leave the sovereignty of our parliament alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u18	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u19	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u20	Unsurprisingly, the proposals for legislation and organic law to modify the framework for the organization of the discussions of the financial laws, whose objective is to strengthen the fiscal straitjacket, have been widely supported in both chambers. Thus, the majority and the right, in ideological complicity, reached an agreement in CMP. Even if the Senate has made some positive contributions, we will of course oppose, as at first reading, these texts as much as they promote and amplify an ordo-liberal ideology, characterized by budgetary rigour,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u21	If only it were true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u22	...that we have always opposed. The objective of these bills, as I said at first reading, is ultimately to depoliticize budget debates to the maximum extent possible. On the one hand, they promote the famous multiannual programming in order to strengthen the quasi-automatic control of public finances by adjusting public expenditure downwards. On the other hand, they reduce Parliament's legislative prerogatives on budgetary matters so that it focuses on monitoring and evaluating public policies. The proposal for an organic law enshrines a little more the pre-eminence of the law on public finance programming, which becomes the central text to which every finance law must adapt. New tools are being deployed, including the famous standard of expenditure in euros, which applies to all public administrations. It was written in advance and Minister Le Maire confirmed it by expressing the wish that this norm eventually become a binding norm enshrined in the Constitution. The Liberals finally managed to fulfill their ultimate dream: the consecration of the golden budgetary rule. The objective of this rule is of course not economic. In fact, budget programming has never worked since public policies adapt to the real economic situation as it exists, not to the one that was provided for three years earlier in the programming law. We have seen him well over the past year. No, the objective of this rule is purely ideological: it aims to reduce public spending and social spending and thus to restrict the scope of action of the State. Those who support these bills will be able to say that they distinguish between good spending and bad spending, i.e., capital spending on operating expenditures. This dichotomy is not satisfactory. Although the definition of so-called future expenditure in Article 1e of the LOLF incorporates long-term social and environmental development – which joins one of the amendments that we have tabled – the definition of investment expenditure in Article 5 of the proposed organic law still seems to us to be of little relevance. Under the current conditions, this standard of spending will not meet the fundamental social and economic challenges facing us. On the contrary, it will act as a fiscal carcan, the very one who put the public hospital in the state we know today. To further strengthen this carcan and the quasi-automatic control of the state that you want to put in place, it was also necessary to reduce the possibilities available to the legislator to make the law – and we come to the second objective of these PPLs. In budgetary matters, these possibilities are already severely constrained: Article 40 of the Constitution, the increase in inadmissibility for reasons of budgetary cavalry, the format of the examination of budgetary missions are all limitations that parliamentarians have to impose. From now on, they will no longer be able to propose tax provisions in the draft amending finance law for management purposes, or even to create revenue levies in non-financial laws. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The meagre progress we are seeing, particularly with regard to the deadlines for examination and the tabling of texts or the framework for carry-overs, cannot call into question our opposition to these texts, which reinforce budgetary constraints and reduce a little more the role of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u23	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u24	The proposal for an organic law on the modernization of the management of public finances, and the proposal for an ordinary law, presented by our colleagues Laurent Saint-Martin and Éric Woerth, are the result of trans-partisan work and handwriting. This reform, it must be stressed, is the result of coordinated parliamentary work, from the tabling of the text until the agreement reached on Monday in the Joint Committee, which has relied on the expertise of the two chambers to evaluate it and draw the best possible outline of it. Given the legal complexity of this text, but above all its organic nature, which gives it an exceptional dimension, we can now be proud to see this reform succeed. Twenty years after the adoption of the organic law on public finances, the famous LOLF, which for the first time provided France with a financial constitution, the two bills we are considering gave us the opportunity to take stock of its implementation: first, by deepening the progress it has made, particularly in terms of Parliament's rights and budgetary performance; Secondly, by focusing on areas to be improved with an ever-increasing willingness to continue efforts to increase budgetary readability and to strengthen the evaluation of the performance of public expenditure. These texts are also part of a particular context, after two years of major crisis, vector of unprecedented public spending to maintain our economy, support our citizens and the entire productive fabric. The increase in the deficit and debt, a symptom of the unprecedented effort undertaken, has made this reform of public financial management all the more necessary, in order to enable us to achieve our goal of debt stabilization calmly by 2027. These laws strengthen the fundamental right of every citizen, his or her consent to tax. Indeed, it is through simpler and clearer budgetary rules that we will promote an understanding by everyone of their contribution and the use of public money. To this end, Parliament will be able to count on the vigilance of the High Council for Public Finance, whose role is strengthened. We now give it the necessary weight to enable it to control the rules of expenditure and to verify the multiannual control of our finances, which are major data in the recovery of the trajectory of public finances. This will extend its mandate. It will be able to examine the realism of the revenue and expenditure included in the PLFs, and will have more time to examine the compatibility of the provisions of the draft sectoral programming laws with the law on public finance programming. The OLF reform contained in these texts also provides Parliament and the Government with new tools to respond to the challenges of tomorrow, in order to ensure a better and necessary framework for public finances. To this end, it facilitates the management of public expenditure through the strengthening of its multiannual dimension, in particular through the vote in value of appropriations and the introduction of a counter for deviations from the expenditure standard. Finally, this reform of the LOLF takes account of our proposals and our demands. In order to streamline and improve parliamentary work in the field of public finances, it is revising the budgetary timetable, as well as consecrating the end-of-management finance law, which is rarely understood. Because this organic law allows for better information for all parliamentarians, our role, which is essential for evaluating public policies, will be strengthened, so that we have better debates, that our monitoring of the Government's action will be increased and that the assessment of expenditure will be the most accurate. But I do not resist telling you that the work will probably have to continue, and that we will all have to ask ourselves whether it is not necessary for the state to keep track of the value of its real estate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Vincent Ledoux also applauds]] Thanks to the general mobilization of all members of Parliament and senators, our country has a renewed financial constitution. This organic law will allow for better governance of our public finances, greater clarity of the budget and better understanding by our fellow citizens. It will also allow the budget of the state, so important in our democratic life, to be the budget of all the French. It is not a revolution, as President Woerth pointed out, but a necessary historical development. The La République group will of course vote in favour of these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u25	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u26	Twenty years ago, the Organic Law on Finance Laws, more commonly known as LOLF, renewed the review of finance laws with a dual objective: to reform the State and to improve the scope of budgetary authority. Before turning to the proposal for reform of this framework before us, let me look back on the adoption of this founding law – mirrored by the 1959 order which, until then, governed the budgetary procedure. First of all, the LOLF was the result of a long-term parliamentary work, which was the result of discussions, debates and deliberations – unlike the 1959 order, at the hands of the then government. I thank Didier Migaud, the late Henri Emmanuelli, Alain Lambert and Michel Bouvard, for both their work and their tenacity. It is not surprising, moreover, that this parliamentary law – pleonasm, which in this case is perfectly appropriate – has the aim of rendering its full scope to parliamentary authorization, which is a genuine democratic foundation. Built in a more practical way, the examination of finance bills had to move away from the famous triptych by which Edgar Faure called the budget debates – "litany, liturgy, lethargy" – to finally make Parliament a full actor in the budget review. The second objective of these founding fathers was to make the reform of the State through the budget, introducing the concept of performance to the forefront of public management, while giving managers greater freedom of action, in a context of increasing public expenditure. Twenty years later, we can only note that these objectives have not been fully achieved, and regret it. Evaluation over the water has not been required in public administration: Parliament has affirmed itself in the examination of finance bills, but its information by the Government remains too erratic and rough – the remainder, the fault is undoubtedly shared; Finally, we must recognize that many efforts can still be made to control public expenditure, and our budgetary situation after the crisis will lead us to pay even more attention to it. The bill advocated by the Chairman and the rapporteur-general of the Finance Committee, in a spirit of consensus, is an important step towards renewing parliamentary scrutiny of finance bills and thus correcting some of its shortcomings. The law on public finance programming, and consequently the introductory article of the financial laws, are enriched by the voting of a standard of expenditure in terms of value and volume. Parliament's information is strengthened and streamlined. The finance laws will now make a clear distinction between operating and capital expenditure, clearly informing parliamentarians and citizens of what is a matter of day-to-day management and what is a matter of future expenditure, as the democrat family has long wanted, and this is illustrated by François Bayrou's journey. This separation encourages a better day-to-day management of public finances, reminding us that the State, in its budgetary action, has a real role to play in building a more prosperous future. Finally, the powers of the High Council for Public Finance are expanded. In particular, he will have the opportunity to express himself on the evolution of public debt or the realism – and not just the coherence – of the revenues and expenses entered in the finance law. I would like to thank the honourable senators, in particular the Chairman and the rapporteur-general of their Finance Committee, for their willingness to reach a consensus on this text that is a little reminiscent of the spirit of harmony of 2001. The texts we are examining today are greatly enriched by their work, and I welcome their contributions on local and regional authorities, on informing Parliament and the public, on the timetable and on the vote on financial agreements. Nevertheless, I have two reasons for regret. The first relates to the non-registration, within the organic framework, of the Spring Evaluation, a great success of this legislature. We also regret that this proposal addresses only one of the objectives of the LOLF and forgets the reform of the State. I hope that senators and MPs – and also the Government – will seize it before 2041! We support both the letter and the spirit of these proposals for organic laws and we look forward to their implementation, and Parliament is strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u27	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u28	On the occasion of the examination and final vote of the reform of the famous LOLF, I would like, like Mrs Poueyto, to pay tribute to the founding fathers of the organic law adopted in 2001, which was a small revolution and which we use every day, in the National Assembly and in the Senate, when examining the budget texts. I regret, however, that we have lost the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws (LOLFSS) along the way: it will probably come later, but a whole would have been more coherent. Let us start with the positive points, because these texts contain them. You wanted to make the budgetary procedure more fluid and readable: we all support this objective. You propose, for example, to reorganise the budget discussion in order to avoid repetition and examination of almost identical measures at first and second readings; All this goes in the right direction, as well as the progress of the deadline for the submission of the general annexes or the creation of new budgetary annexes aimed at clarifying things, along the lines of a simple sentence on the subject-verb-complement – at least I hope so. However, I have several reservations about the proposed organic law, as I indicated at the CMP meeting on Monday night. The first relates to Article 11, in which you mix statistical data with tax data. I will refer to each other separately, even if they appear in the same article. Tax data, first of all: the rapporteurs-general and the presidents of the two Finance Committees will now be able to authorize agents to collect personal tax data in their place. I think it's dangerous, as I said in CMP. At present, tax secrecy is safeguarded – I remind you all the more since, when I was the general rapporteur of the budget, I went to Bercy in the context of the assessments which it is for Parliament to conduct, to consult the tax data of companies, but I have always forbidden myself to consult those of individuals. Again, it seems to me dangerous to delegate this right to agents who do not have the same responsibilities. I solemnly say: Article 11 threatens the confidentiality of the data – at least it is my reading of it; I hope I'm wrong, but that's what's in the text. You could have subjected these agents to the procedure applicable to researchers, and empowered them to be statistical secrecy and tax secrecy. You did not wish it, preferring to give them a simple delegation; In my view, this is not enough to secure the procedure. The statistical data, then, to which Article 11 gives Parliament the opportunity to access. Again, I invite you to pay the utmost attention, because the statistical data include medical data. However, during the crisis of the covid-19, the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) and other bodies compile statistics from data from the medical circuit – I have checked this point since Monday's CMP. You could have provided for a secure procedure through the Statistical Confidentiality Committee to ensure real protection of data confidentiality, including medical confidentiality. These two points seem fundamental to me. In its current wording, article 11 does not preserve the guarantees that the Constitution guarantees to each of our fellow citizens. This is one of the reasons why we will not vote in favour of this text – regrettably, because we need a procedure that allows for progress and greater readability, but Article 11 poses too many risks for the protection of the freedoms that we owe to the citizens. Finally, I regret that these bills have not gone any further on the reorganization of the budget discussion. I repeat that it is essential to address at the same time the revenue of the State and that of social security, because it is connected by a large pipe: VAT. I also regret that the proposal for an organic law does not contain any measures designed to strengthen the financial evaluation of the Government's amendments tabled during the discussion – remember that this year the National Assembly adopted the most expensive governmental amendment in the history of the Fifth Republic. These amendments should give rise to a serious financial assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u29	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u30	"Do me good politics and I will make you good finances," said a Finance Minister of the two Restorations and the July monarchy. Two centuries later, the opposite of this Baron Louis paradigm is also true: we are committed to making good finances so that we can implement good policies. It is precisely these "good finances" that allow us to face a sudden and unprecedented global health crisis with massive and lasting consequences. While the contributions of our latest organic laws are undeniable, they also generate their own limits. The assessment of multiannual pilotage is considered by the Court of Auditors to be "descending", since the objectives set by the programming laws have rarely been achieved. However, international comparisons show the benefits of a robust multi-year framework that relies on strong political commitment, provides credible, flexible and stable expenditure targets, and provides a framework for revenue developments. Moreover, the fragmented framework of our public spending is not conducive to sound decision-making and understanding of the use of public funds. In order to better read public choices, it is therefore necessary to put in place mechanisms capable of ensuring a comprehensive vision of the action of the different public administrations. Finally, the state budget tends to crumble, which has the effect of derogating from the principles of unity, universality and efficiency! In short, "can do better"! That is why we are meeting this morning, after a very long and constructive work which I would like to welcome, in particular that of the chairman and the rapporteur-general of the committee. The Group of the European People's Party fully supports the objectives set out in the proposal for an organic law: strengthening the multi-annual control of public finances, improving budgetary readability and rationalising the parliamentary review procedure. Multiannuality is a long-term vision that is indispensable for those who want to lead high-quality public policies. The law on public finance programming will now have to determine, for each year of programming, a target for the growth of public expenditure in volume as well as a forecast of expenditure expressed in billions of current euros. This is an important step towards better anticipation and a more understandable and meaningful approach to public spending. The transparency of public finances is improved by changing the structure of the draft finance bill, clarifying the framework applicable to assigned taxes and revenue levies, changing the nomenclature of financial laws: a better presentation of the state's expenditure distinguishing between investment and operation, which must not be to displease our committee chair. Finally, Parliament's information and rights are strengthened. The LOLF devotes the Spring of Evaluation, i.e. the virtuous link between, on the one hand, the monitoring missions and, on the other hand, the budgetary authorisation and the vote of appropriations. This initiative was not intended for our committee to stack reports on reports but to give rapporteurs sufficient time and resources to engage in constructive dialogue with the administrations they control and to influence the changes in the budgets they evaluate. As Special Rapporteur on the appropriations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I was able to measure the strengths of the exercise, having the satisfaction of seeing PLFs or PLFRs translate into action some of my spring recommendations, for example in 2019 and 2020 as regards French education abroad or this year the scholarships to international students. The PPLO itself reiterates, for institutions with financial autonomy from the cultural services of the embassies, my proposal to secure their own resources, formulated in 2018 from the very first Spring. I know that many of my fellow special rapporteurs have had similar satisfactions, although much can still be done to improve the exercise. During the next parliamentary term, we will undoubtedly be able to give more visibility to the work of the special rapporteurs and better organize exchanges in committee with ministers or programme managers. [[Mr. François Jolivet applauds]] The Group of the European People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal for an organic law on the modernisation of public financial management and the related proposal for an ordinary law. These texts are up to the challenges and will make it possible to modernise our constitution of public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u31	On the proposal for an organic law and the proposal for an ordinary law, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The last speaker on the list is Mr Michel Zumkeller.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u32	The crisis of the covid-19 has had a lasting impact on our public finances: it must strengthen our reflection on a new approach to these same public finances. What is the situation today? What can be said? The founding principles of the LOLF, which celebrated its twenty years this summer, were a change of logic, a priori confidence, a culture of results more than means, a managerial impetus, innovative practices, new responsibilities with wider margins of manoeuvre. These principles were devitalised by "a blocking bureaucratic apparatus", in the words of Alain Lambert, one of the Fathers of the LOLF. The consequences of the health crisis call for us to regain the spirit of the founders, removing administrative obstacles and committing ourselves to a new governance, based on the principle of prior trust and ex post control of Parliament, as the proposed organic law demonstrates. The aim of this proposal for reform of the organic law is therefore to restore meaning to the multi-annual programming of our public finances, an objective which we can only subscribe to and which is only too little respected. We welcome the agreement of the CMP, which confirms three important objectives: strengthening the multi-annual control of our public finances, improving the readability of the main budgetary principles and rationalizing the parliamentary review procedure. The proposal for an organic law thus improves the procedure for examining the finance law and the budgetary timetable. We welcome the simplification of the review of all revenues in the first part. We can also welcome the distribution of resources and costs between investment and operation as reflected in the Government's proposed finance bill, which will be included in the balancing article, which will enrich our analysis of the balance of the proposed budget. As President Eric Woerth rightly pointed out, we need indicators to evaluate our public policies. From this point of view, it was essential to distinguish between investment and operation. We must therefore combine accounting standards and public policies. We would also particularly like to welcome the establishment of an annual debate on public debt and the submission of a report by the Government prior to the regular session on the characteristics of public debt in article 9. As the debt rises to 3,000 billion in 2022, it becomes urgent to think about future generations, as we have been repeating for months. We believe that it is legitimate for the National Assembly to hold a debt debate in September just before the budget is considered. Finally, during the Assembly's consideration of the text, we regretted the absence of a specific section on local finances. The IDU and independent group is convinced that the recovery will take place first and foremost through the territories. With this in mind, we proposed an amendment aimed at introducing a law on the financing of local authorities, voted annually in Parliament, in order not only to increase the visibility of the various financial transfers, but above all to facilitate the steering of local public finances. We welcome the clarification by the Senate of the pre-discussion report on local finances, in particular the information on charges transferred to local authorities. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote for these PPLs, welcoming the work and trans-party commitment of their actors. But let us not lie: despite all these normative and technical changes, Parliament should play a real budgetary role. The budgetary examination will not be of interest as long as governments continue to table last-minute, unquantified amendments without impact studies, as well as to reject almost all parliamentary amendments, even those with modest costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u33	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u34	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee to propose a text on the remaining provisions of the proposal for an organic law on the modernisation of public financial management. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendment before me. The rapporteur's amendment No 1 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u35	I shall put to the vote the whole proposal for an organic law, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendment adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u36	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 35 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u37	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u38	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 35 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u39	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u40	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u41	The next item is the discussion of the draft law on the recognition of the Nation and reparation for the harm suffered by the harkis, by the other returnees from Algeria formerly of civil status under local law and by their families as a result of the conditions for their reception in French territory (No. 4631, 4662).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u42	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u43	"On behalf of France, I say to the harkis and their children, in a loud and solemn voice, that the Republic then contracted a debt to them. These words were spoken at the Elysée on 20 September by the President of the Republic, continuing the path of recognition drawn by his predecessors. In order to go further in this recognition, in reparation and in memorial transmission, he promised that "the Government will, before the end of the year, carry out a project to include in the marble of our laws the recognition and reparation of the harkis. I commit myself to it." It is this commitment of the Republic that I propose to honour by passing this bill, both important and serious – for the harkis, for their children, for all generations that have suffered the consequences of the Algerian war, for the memory and cohesion of our nation. The harkis have signed a pact of honour with France: they are first of all fighters of France, committed and ready for the supreme sacrifice. We cannot understand the history of the harkis and the drama of their welcome if we do not say that. Their story is a story of soldiers, the story of a broken fraternity. Between 1954 and 1962, during the painful hours of the Algerian war, nearly 200,000 men and women made France's courageous choice. I will not recall here the diversity of motivations and forms of engagement, the diversity of statutes and missions: it remains the indescribable observation of the eminent services they have rendered. The work that we are going to do will make it possible to renew France's deep gratitude to them. Next March 19 will mark the sixtieth anniversary of the Evian accords and the ceasefire in Algeria: we all know that the post-19 March was not synonymous with peace: it was a time of tears, tragedies and reprisals for many populations, especially for the harkis. The history of the harkis is also that of a tragedy, that of men, women and children abandoned on their native land; of men, women and children, repatriated to the metropolis, uprooted and relegated. In a situation of challenges and dilemmas, however, I would like to recall that officers have carried out their oath of honour vis-à-vis their men, such as General François Meyer; compatriots, individuals and communities have offered themselves to accompany the harkis in their new lives morally and materially, to welcome them and help them integrate. I am thinking in particular of the village of Ongles and its inhabitants. At a time when we are debating the shortcomings of the Republic, these women and men have honoured France. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will find the means, together, to show to them the esteem and recognition of the Nation. Yes, France has procrastinated to open its doors to the harkis and their families: the truth is cruel. That is why we must keep reminding her. Yes, for those who managed to embark, it was tearing and exile and, for many, the reign of incomprehension and uncertainty. Yes, it was the beginning of humiliation and bruising, indignity and marginalization. The harkis were waiting for hospitality and fraternity: many of them found hostility or even arbitrariness. Yes, it is one of the darkest pages in France after 1945. Yes, France abandoned some of its children who, however, had fought for her. This is the singularity of this French tragedy. Of the approximately 90,000 harkis who arrived in France after 19 March 1962, almost half were relegated, sometimes for years, to forest camps or hamlets. As you know, they have lived in particularly unworthy conditions. In these places, the harkis and their families have experienced arbitrariness, barbed wire, confinement, coldness, food deficiencies and promiscuity that forbids privacy. They suffered bullying, humiliation, abuse and misappropriation of benefits. Many have been the ones that boredom, repeated trauma and so many other ills have destroyed. I am thinking with emotion of newborns and children, who have died as a result of these unworthy conditions, especially health conditions. Thousands of children in these camps or hamlets have been out of school, badly received and poorly educated. France has not been at the rendezvous of the most beautiful of republican promises, that of school and education. Thus these places were places of banishment, which bruised and deeply traumatized. Yes, it was in France, it was yesterday. Through this bill, the Republic is at the rendezvous of truth and honour. Through this bill, the Republic renews its recognition of its shortcomings. Through this bill, the Republic crowns and completes a building of recognition and reparation. The first step in this recognition was the granting to the harkis, in 1974, of the status of a veteran. Since then, allowances have been created and are still in force, housing, training, solidarity and access to employment schemes have been put in place over the years. The work of memory, which continues tirelessly, has been intensified, because I am convinced that it is no recognition without knowledge. Since 2017, ladies and gentlemen, you have been accompanying the work of the Government. For the first generation – the harki fighters and their widows – we have established the largest increase in the recognition allowance and lifetime allowance since their creation. For their children – the second generation – we have created a support system: it has helped, today, nearly 2,000 children of harkis – this work will continue in 2022 – for an average of more than 7,500 euros. We have also perpetuated the House of History and Memory of Ongles, the only place of memory dedicated exclusively to the harkis and their relatives, whose visit I recommend, and intensified the work of identifying places of deprivation of liberty that the harkis have known – work destined to continue in the years to come. The text that I have the honour to present to you aims at overcoming denials and taboos: thus the Republic opens the time for forgiveness and justice. Starting with recognition, Article 1 renews the gratitude of the Nation for the combatants who served France between 1954 and 1962, but, for the first time, the French Nation recognizes its responsibility for the unworthy, precarious and degrading conditions for the reception of former members of the supplementary formations in our territory after the Evian Accords of March 19, 1962. The text then specifies the scope of the State's compensation for the damage suffered. Harkis, former substitutes, their families and persons of civil status under local law who have stayed in the camps and hamlets of forest in which insecurity, confinement, deprivation of liberty and isolation were contrary to our most fundamental republican principles are eligible for the scheme. Reparation will take the form of flat-rate and individualised compensation depending on the length of stay in the structures concerned. Reparations granted will benefit from tax exemption rules. The bill also establishes a National Commission for Recognition and Reparation with the National Office for War Veterans and Victims (ONACVG), which will be responsible for deciding on applications for compensation after investigation by the Office's services. The memory work being essential, the commission will also carry out a memorial mission to collect and transmit the speech, and hence the memory, of the harkis. It may propose that special individual situations be taken into account, as well as the expansion of the list of places of confinement eligible for reparation. The prerogatives of the ONACVG will be expanded and strengthened so that it can carry out its task of investigating cases and accompanying them. Finally, the text will update and strengthen pre-existing arrangements for greater equity. It will make the life benefit scheme more favourable by removing foreclosures; This provision will make it possible to grant the allowance to the surviving spouse who had not submitted an application within the statutory time limit. At the same time, access to the lifetime allowance will be extended to persons whose deceased spouse had established his or her domicile in a country of the European Union and to widows of persons assimilated to members of supplementary training. Beyond this bill, we want to go further in recognizing the sacrifices made by all veterans. That is why, in 2022, the recognition and living allowances of all the harkis and their widows will be doubled. This other priority of the President of the Republic is of regulatory scope. Thanks to this bill and thanks to your amendments, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the work of national memory, we will translate into action the speech of honour and truth of the President of the Republic, which is a real historic turning point in recognition. This bill is not meant to tell history or describe suffering. It does not contain a detailed account of the experiences of women and men in camps and hamlets: it is not the object of the law, it is the vocation of historians or even of the future national commission. Recognising and repairing this is the vocation of the law; say the specific damage that brings reparation, this is our common mission. But I want to be very clear: we all know that repair cannot do everything; She doesn't erase painful memories, she doesn't cure trauma. Reparation involves the recognition by the national community of its faults, its failings, and an attempt to compensate them as best as possible and to restore justice. The work of memorial recognition must continue tirelessly in order to make the history of the harkis better known to the whole of France and to all the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and GDR groups]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the work we are going to do. I will of course ask you to adopt this law because, in this way, France will be able to look at its history in the face and embrace the demand for truth. She will do it sincerely; She will do it for those who have never ceased to be her children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u44	Mrs Patricia Mirallès, rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u45	It is not only with great pride, but also with great emotion, that I rise this morning to bring before you the bill before us. My childhood remains marked by the memory of my harki friends, with whom I have lived very beautiful moments, in notoriously difficult neighborhoods. Yet, in France in which we grew up, that of the 1960s and 1970s, a large number of harkis lived the horror in silence. These French citizens, our compatriots, former combatants of the French army, engaged under our three colors during the Algerian war, were interned for many years, sometimes, in camps from which he did not come out soul or hope. I am thinking today of Serge Carel, who told us in the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces about the torture he suffered from the Front de libération nationale (FLN), his escape from Algeria, his wandering and the indifference or even hostility to which he met once he arrived in France. I am thinking of Dalila Kerchouche, who grew up behind the barbed wires of the Bias camp and testified to the broken lives of the camp children. I am thinking of those whom I have heard and who have testified to the trauma they have experienced in the forest camps and hamlets, those reception facilities that bear such a bad name: babies who have died of cold buried without burial, children who have left school, mothers and sisters humiliated, abused, when not raped, fathers and brothers interned in the psychiatric hospital because of rebellion, families crammed in rooms of 9 square meters, allowances hijacked by camp leaders, open mails, French names imposed, lack of freedom of movement. And then, ultimately, the lack of everything: hygiene, privacy, freedom, humanity. Yes, France has failed and it is the honour of the Republic to recognize it. The bill that I have the honour to report this morning is a concrete translation of the commitment made by the President of the Republic on 20 September to include in the law recognition and reparation for the harkis. His request for forgiveness is historic. Let's try to be up to this moment. Of course, a lot has already been done. I would also like to pay tribute to the Presidents of the Republic who, since Jacques Chirac, have opened the way to the recognition of the responsibility of the State in the abandonment of the harkis. Our majority has supported and implemented a large number of measures in favour of the living conditions of the harkis and their families. You have thus announced in committee, Madam Minister Delegate, the next doubling of the recognition allowance and the lifetime allowance, which has already been raised by 600 euros since 2017. The children of harkis have also not been forgotten, with the creation in 2018 of a solidarity fund which, after difficult beginnings, seems to work better. Despite these undeniable advances, this bill marks a real turning point because it is no longer about helping, but about repairing; It is no longer a question of financial support, but of recognising a fault of the State and indemnifying it. In short, it is a matter of justice. To do justice is first to recognize for the first time in law the responsibility of the State in the indignity of the reception and living conditions of the harkis and their families, in transit camps and forest hamlets. In this regard, words have a particularly strong symbolic weight and must live up to the drama experienced by the harkis and their families. That is why, in committee, we decided to fully recognise, in Article 1, the abandonment of which they were victims when they arrived in France in the aftermath of the Algerian war. To do justice is then to compensate the harm suffered by the harkis and their families as a result of this abandonment. This is the purpose of section 2 of the bill, which creates a simple and effective compensation and reparation mechanism, the amount of which is proportional to the length of time spent in camps and forest hamlets. Many of the people I interviewed, however, stressed the existence of a community of fates among the harkis. They therefore believe that all members of this community should be eligible for this repair mechanism, whether or not they have passed through transit camps or forest hamlets. There are areas of shadow, places where freedom went hand in hand with misery, but they are not included in reparation measures. The list of reception facilities, to be determined by decree, is therefore likely to evolve, as is the list of structures retained under the Solidarity Fund, which was updated in 2020. That is why I have proposed that the National Commission on Recognition and Reparation set up under Article 3 may, in the light of its work, recommend any changes that it considers desirable in the list of structures eligible for the reparation mechanism. I thus insisted that the memory of the harkis should not be frozen in the marble of history. I wanted us to finally give them back the keys to their own destiny. In addition, in order to restore flexibility to a lump sum compensation mechanism which may appear to be lacking, I would suggest that you, ladies and gentlemen, adopt an amendment allowing the national committee to notify the ONACVG services of any particular situation requiring specific social or financial support. Here again, I want to ensure that the strictness and injustice of the state towards the harkis succeed flexibility and forgiveness. Finally, to do justice to the harkis is to contribute to the building and transmission of a memory. By giving the national commission of recognition and reparation a memorial mission, the text meets the requirement of a duty of memory towards the harkis and their history. All the people interviewed reminded us of this requirement, as languages begin to loosen. For the time of recognition is also the time of listening and collecting the speech of the harkis, so that they can witness and transmit the history of the dramas they have experienced. An amendment was adopted in the Defence Committee to further strengthen this memorial mission: it provides for the obligation of the National Commission to publish an annual report to report on the testimonies it has collected. This addition seemed essential to me in order to value the work of this commission and to make visible the history of the harkis, too long hidden. The memorial work must, however, concern all the returned harkis and their families, and not only those who have passed through the camps and hamlets of forest: I will propose that you vote for an amendment to that effect. It is also because the symbolic dimension in memorial matters is important that I propose to raise together at legislative level the national day of tribute to the harkis of 25 September, which is currently fixed by decree. I would also like to suggest that we broaden the scope of this day so that we may also pay tribute to those who, such as General Meyer, disobeyed and opened their arms, providing relief and assistance to the harkis and their families on the occasion of their repatriation and arrival on national territory. I am in fact firmly convinced, like the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron, that the Algerian war is both a question of suffering and of nuances. For me, who is the daughter of returnees, being able to help repair the memory of the harkis is an immense source of pride. I take this moment to address a thought full of compassion and gratitude to those who have gone through the storm of our history of the Algerian war. Whether they were civilians, career soldiers, called men or women, children or deans, whatever their side, they all had to endure sufferings that we must hear and respect. Of course, the law cannot do everything: it will not bring back to the harkis and their families the parents, brothers, sisters and children who have died; It will not erase wounds, dramas, tears, traumas experienced by harkis and their families; It will certainly not heal the still open wounds of a past marked by sacrifices for a country that has, for a time, abandoned them. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM Group rise and applaud. – Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LR group]] I sincerely believe, however, that this bill is a decisive step forward in the process of recognizing the nation and redressing the harkis. Today, ladies and gentlemen, let us stand up to the commitment of the harkis to France, to the height of their suffering and dignity, so that France will finally cease to be a history that divides us to become a culture that unites us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u46	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u47	Some pieces of legislation rise above the contingencies to reconcile the French with themselves and work, beyond the trials, to build a shared memory. The one we are looking at today goes back to the painful memory of the Algerian war, which has affected nearly 1.7 million fighters, whether they are active, called, so numerous, harkis or substitutes. More specifically, this bill expresses France's recognition of the harkis and strengthens reparations to those who have been deprived of rights by our country in camps and hamlets of forestation, finally putting a name on the shortcomings of the Republic. More ambitious programme, the National Assembly is called upon to support the request for forgiveness and reparation so much desired by the President of the Republic, which he expressed on 20 September. This concerns us all. Wherever we come from, regardless of our political or partisan commitments, we must be lucid: first see, then name, accept this story, finally. There was the inability not only of the Government, but also of some promoters of emancipation, to see that these relegated were first and foremost French people who had exposed their lives for France; Not to mention those who didn't want to see anything. There was also, and above all, abandonment. Only the path of forgiveness will finally build a shared memory. It presupposes a work of remembrance to give all its meaning to the painful past. It also requires reparation, not to erase memories but to break the debt owed to the harkis and their loved ones. This debt is that of violated rights, forgotten freedoms, precarised, humiliated lives, which is specific to life in camps and hamlets. It is in this spirit of rather remarkable unity of view that the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces which I chair led its work to arrive at the text before you. I particularly note two of our contributions: first, the explicit use of the term "abandonment" to describe the reality experienced by the harkis; Secondly, the expansion of the role of the commission responsible for collecting the memory of all the substitutes of the armed forces and their families, a collection essential to the process of forgiveness that I have described. In my capacity as the Leader of the Gard, I know what their tragedy was. I am thinking of Ali Laidaoui, Mohamed Khadre Elbas, their sons, their daughters. In speaking these words, I am thinking of the camp of Saint-Maurice-l'Ardoise – unfortunately one of the last to be closed – where many of the returned harkis lived, some even being considered unbreakable. I also see this plot where the bodies of babies and children lie, buried in shrouds, who died of cold during the tragic winters of 1962 and 1964. These missing lives were made to be loved. These families have suffered not only mourning, but also humiliation, deprivation and restrictions. It is this debt that we must now repair, even if it is irreparable. I note that the commitment of the harkis to France, like their tragedy, is unknown to too many of our compatriots, including Gardois. It is essential to continue this collection of testimonies and their transmission, for our own history. This will make it possible to restore their right place in our shared memories to all those who have committed themselves to France: the harkis, the moghaznis and other surrogate formations, beyond the eminent emblematic figures that we need as much better to emphasize, from the bachaga Saïd Boualam, who was vice-president of the National Assembly, to the men of estimable duty who were at their side, like General François Meyer or the mayor of Ongles, André Laugier. I am also thinking of all the local and regional authorities which have welcomed them and which, often in great loneliness and disarray, have had to deal with new situations which have changed their way of life. Finally, and this should not be a taboo, sixty years later, this bill is also a prerequisite for progress on the path of reconciliation between France and Algeria, for those who have been neglected for too long and which Algeria is still too late to recognize. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and IDU-I groups]] In conclusion, let me quote Albert Camus who, at the end of the First Man, evokes "a dark force that [...] would also provide him, and of the same tireless generosity that she had given him her reasons for living, reasons to age and die without revolt. Let us not forget that these were his last handwritten words. For these French who arrived on a land without an age and without memory, this force is the Republic, the one which recognizes and repairs, this republic which has failed but which today calls for the forgiveness of the harkis, their families and their descendants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u48	In the general debate, Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u49	We are meeting this morning to discuss the bill on recognition of the nation and compensation for harm suffered by the harkis. The stage point that we are preparing to take today is the result of a process that has allowed the gradual appropriation of a complex page in the history of France. This process was initiated by President Jacques Chirac on 26 September 2001 and continued by his successors. More than twenty years after recognizing the French debt to the harkis, we must now move towards even more recognition and reparation, in the wake of the will expressed by the President of the Republic. We have heard, at times, that this text comes at a particular political moment. To this suspicion, we reply that this government and this majority have fully committed themselves to broad action for the benefit of the harkis throughout the legislature. As of 2018, the former harkis have benefited from an increase in recognition and living allowances, which have been increased by almost 600 euros per year, the largest increase since their creation. A social support fund for children of harkis was set up in 2019, with an amount of 13.6 million euros. Nearly 2000 of them were assisted, for an average aid amount of EUR 7600. Recognition and action for the benefit of the harkis have therefore been a reality of the quinquennium. Madam Deputy Minister, you have conducted it consistently and decisively, and we thank you for that. Let us come to the substance of the bill, long awaited by the associations. In his speech on Monday 20 September 2021, the President of the Republic recalled the purpose of this text: it is not intended to say what history is – it is the role of historians – but to underline the singularity of the drama of the harkis and the part of abuse of families received in the metropolis. By transposing France's responsibility in their reception conditions into the law, we are going from words to deeds. In addition to engraved this recognition in the marble of the law, this bill endorses the desire to gather testimony and to make the memory of this tragedy alive, thanks to the commission established by section 3. In line with Benjamin Stora's report and Vincent Duclert's, France can be proud of its memorial work. It took courage to shed light on the shadows of our history. We stand straight in the face of history, which few nations are able to do. Second, the bill strengthens financial reparation: for the first generation of harkis, first, by upgrading the allowances of the harkis veterans and their widows; for the second generation, then, who lived the camps, the forest hamlets or the homes in such difficult living conditions. This is the purpose of Article 2, which is enshrined in Articles 5 and 6, which exempt the budgetary compensation from tax liability and social security contributions. Our work in committee has demonstrated the excellent degree of cooperation between the political groups and the convergence of our visions on this subject – although unfortunately we are never immune to the fact that some people are allowed to go to positions of circumstance. This convergence was illustrated, for example, by the introduction of identical amendments proposing to introduce in the law a national day of homage to the harkis and other members of the supplementary formations, thus exceeding the decree of 31 March 2003; or by those proposing that a Member of Parliament and a Senator sit on the committee established by Article 3, thus enabling Parliament to continue the work undertaken during the memorial phase. Finally, we would like to thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for listening to the requests of the Acting Together group, which are reflected in this bill. Article 133 of the Finance Act for 2016 had set a deadline for filing a file at one year from the death of the former harki or 31 December 2016 for those who died before 1 January 2016. Our colleague Loïc Kervran had alerted you, by written question, to the harmful effects of foreclosure, since many families had not been informed in time of this scheme, notably by the ONACVG services, and had therefore not been able to apply for an allowance. Article 7 of this text redresses this injustice and we thank you for that. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text is therefore a major step forward and a fair repair for the harkis. It allows France to emerge more united, more dignified and better prepared to face other hazards in history. The Action Group therefore thanks all those who have contributed to this work and will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u50	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u51	It is first a story of soldiers, French soldiers whose ears defended our country in 1870, 1914 and 1940: valiant and courageous soldiers. The sons of these glorious elders, too, wore the uniform of the French army between 1954 and 1962, when the events of Algeria were called pudically. They were 200000 scouts, trackers, watchmen, who enjoyed a perfect knowledge of the terrain and who fought in all the theatres of operations: in the Aurès, Kabylie or the Atlas; soldiers whose French were even able to forget that they were French soldiers, since it was not until 1974 that they were finally recognized as a veteran. It is also a story of French citizens, who were abandoned by their country, a country for which they shed their blood and fought; French citizens who have been left at the mercy of the very people they have faced for eight years, abandoned with their wives and children; French citizens who have been disarmed; French citizens who could have had the choice between exile or death and to whom, for many, only one choice was left: death – a death through reprisals whose cruelty is still unspeakable today, a calvary that has forever marked memories and flesh. It is finally the story of French refugees, welcomed – for some, after moult tergiversations of the powers of the time – as gallant dogs, parked in camps, hamlets of forestage and even, as the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, recalled, prisons. It is the story of French refugees on whom we spit; refugees who after having served our country, after having lost their home, their property, their land and that of their ancestors, suffered the hostility and hatred of those whom they had defended at the risk of their lives. It is the story of French refugees surrounded by barbed wire in camps, struck by cold, hunger and disease, and of which – ultimate humiliation – the children were not allowed to access the school of the Republic. However, some officers were present and decided not to abandon the harkis under their command. They had the choice between military degradation and dishonor: they chose to defend the people concerned, save them and accompany them under unimaginable conditions. It must be remembered: a few small rays of sunshine shined in the darkness of France of the 1960s, in the darkness of the Republic. This story is ours. This is the story of the harkis; It's the story of a shame – a French shame. This is not a failure of the Republic, as I was able to hear – totally inappropriate formula! It's an indelible stain on the Republic. Since then, our country has responded and engaged in memory and reparation work, but too little and too late. As Yannick Favennec-Becot observed in committee, nothing more can erase the suffering of these French victims of cynicism of power and a state abandonment. No allocation, compensation or reclamation can compensate for the damage they have suffered. This is the story of which we are the heirs. I thank the Government and the President of the Republic for assuming this responsibility, within the limits of who we are and what we can. After the actions of other Presidents of the Republic – Jacques Chirac, but also François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy – this bill helps to express the truth as it was and to recognize the heavy responsibility of the nation in this history, which is a French history. However, the IDU and independent group regrets that France's responsibility for refusing to repatriate the harkis and for abandoning them in Algeria is not included in the marble of the law – an amendment will be defended in this regard. We also regret that the harkis who arrived in France by their own means, and who did not stay in reception facilities, cannot benefit from the repair mechanism. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the panel of commissions. – Mr. Philippe Dunoyer also applauds]] It is the words of a returnee from Algeria who resonates today in the Chamber. In memory of the harkis, in memory of these French fighters, the entire IDU and independent group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u52	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u53	Nearly sixty years after the Evian Accords, we are gathered to engrave into the law the memory of the harkis. This bill is not the first to address this painful issue. His examination invites us to a particular legislative work: to carry out a duty of remembrance, to affirm the full recognition of the nation and to grant a just reparation. The Liberties and Territories Group hopes that the final text will be unanimous and will be the result of consensual work, failing which it has been co-built with the various groups represented in Parliament. The nation is never as big as it is when it confronts its past and recognizes its flaws. What should the Republic say to the veterans it has abandoned? It must recognize its faults, ensure that it will not forget them and that it will give them its unwavering support. The time of reparation must be preceded by the time of recognition – a full recognition of France's responsibility for the harm suffered by the harkis and their families. The bill contains a long-awaited and demanded advance by the harkis: the recognition of unworthy reception conditions in the camps. It marks the end of a denial, and finally lifts the veil that concealed the internments of the harkis and their families, the physical and moral violence, the deprivation of liberty and the abandonment that they endured. Our group supports the associations representing the harkis and their descendants in this duty of memory and reparation. In addition to serious trauma, the reception in camps excluded these people from the rest of society. Almost sixty years after the Evian Accords, it is up to the State to remedy these shortcomings. I would like to commend the work done by the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, in particular by the rapporteur. Beyond the simple financial aspect, the choice of words is essential. The new wording, which states that the harkis have been "abandoned", faithfully reflects the reality and seems more acceptable than the euphemism "abandoned" originally proposed by the Government. However, there are still areas for improvement, and our group will present amendments to try to overcome certain shortcomings. While we welcome the future right to reparation, we believe that the conditions for compensation should be clarified and refined. Article 2 provides that compensation shall be paid on the basis of the length of stay and the compensation already received: these two conditions should not reduce the right to compensation to such a degree that it is in step with the severity of the trauma suffered. The text is also too elliptical as to how the compensation is calculated, which it refers to a decree. The compensation must be adapted to the severity of the injury; otherwise, it would turn into a reparation allowance – that's not what the harkis associations are asking for. Our group expects guarantees from the Government in this regard, and hopes, in particular, that a minimum level of compensation will be specified. We also hope that the Government will satisfy the request of parliamentarians to clarify explicitly the composition of the national commission for the recognition and reparation of the harm suffered by the harkis; We hope that parliamentarians and representatives of harkis associations and their descendants will be included. Our group also wishes to denounce a problem of method: the government's appropriations amendments, tabled during the first reading of the 2022 finance bill, without prior assessment and in the context of the least restricted exchanges, severely limit the parliamentary debate. A closed envelope of €50 million has been included in the Veterans' Mission, memory and ties with the Nation. It was regrettable that such a financial ceiling had been introduced, even though Members had not been seized of the text. These processes of executive power are detrimental to the effectiveness of parliamentary debate. [[Applause on several SOC benches and on the panel of committees]] Finally, we would like to point out that this testimony of recognition comes late and, by chance, on the eve of the parliamentary and presidential elections. However, these reservations do not detract from the usefulness and importance of the bill, which we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u54	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u55	First of all, I would like to welcome the presence in the gallery of this Hall of representatives of the harkis associations – since that is the appropriate term. They symbolize the persistence of a struggle as well as fidelity to ideas and families. I solemnly greet them and know how attentive they are to us. Sixty years after the conflict, we're still talking about it! This must be the thread of our debates, of our criticisms and of the amendments and sub-amendments that we will defend. In doing so, we must affirm a clear message: the war is over; It is necessary to repair the bleeding of history and avoid reopening the scars – for if they bleed again, gangrene could spread, and the whole social body could perish. The war is over, and woe to those who constantly reactivate this conflict, sometimes using the very terms that were used in this terrible moment in our history. I hope that, in the run-up to the presidential election, the speeches claiming that the difficulties of our country would be the reactivation of this fight and this war will cease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u56	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u57	The associations have already done a lot; Presidents of the Republic have spoken and acted, but I would like to quote a letter addressed in 2005 to President Jacques Chirac by personalities such as Henri Alleg – whose commitment to colonialism is known – filmmaker Bertrand Tavernier or historian Jean Lacouture: "Among the signatories of this letter, some have approved the Algerian people's struggle for independence, others have not, but whatever our opinion has been, we cannot admit that the Republic does not recognize, in the light of human rights, its wrongs towards the harkis and their families. I say it, so that things are clear. After these serious remarks, allow me a hint of fun: the Anglo-Saxon expression "cancel culture" – or culture of cancellation – is in vogue to designate an alleged desire to erase part of our history; And his followers are not the ones we believe! In this case, we have observed in recent years the desire to erase part of our history. Our goal is to reintroduce this tragic moment into our great shared history. I also join in paying tribute to the officers who disobeyed orders to save the so-called harkis. Let us keep in mind: there are times when disobeying orders is to remain faithful to the Republic. Sometimes those who disobey are in the real world – let us remember. This bill is important for its solemnity and for its determination to date through the law. The La France insoumée group supports this approach. However, as we have explained in committee, we want to open the debate and express our reservations – they will be the subject of amendments and sub-amendments. To the extent that there has been fraternity of suffering with these 90,000 people – fighters, but also the women and children accompanying them – there must be fraternity and equal reparation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u58	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u59	This principle must be applied independently of the conditions under which these persons were accommodated. The camps were terrible – it was said. I, who, by my age, have not been personally plunged into the contradictions of this time, and have not had to choose my camp – even though I am convinced that the colonial fact should cease – am outraged by the testimonies describing the prison conditions in which these families were confined and the de-schooling to which the children were condemned. On the basis of a principle of equality, we do not agree with the distinction made by the bill on the basis of the conditions under which these persons were received – I know, however, that the rapporteur will present amendments and sub-amendments on this subject; We'll pay attention to it. Transit camps were particularly terrible, but emergency towns and relegated neighbourhoods also did not offer decent reception conditions. We therefore hope that all the families concerned will benefit from all the repairs, in addition to those who stayed in transit and accommodation facilities between 1962 and 1975. [[MM. François Ruffin and Jean-Paul Dufrègne applaud]] Finally, of course, it is not a question of money, but let us make sure that the sums granted are not so small that some families would not see it as a reparation but as a continuation of humiliation. We therefore hope that reparations will be reassessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u60	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u61	I will not go back to what I said in committee, in which I voted in favour of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and Communist Members. Each of us, more or less openly, denounced the responsibility of the French government as a result of the Evian agreements, and the conditions for the reception of harkis and their families in camps where they no longer had their lives, were placed under guardianship, deprived of liberty and subjected to permanent control of their daily lives, before being victims, over several generations, of discrimination of all kinds. However, as the rapporteur has pointed out, let us be careful not to exclude those who did not transit through these camps. Not having benefited from military repatriation, they were abandoned in Algeria – some were imprisoned for long months – and then arrived in France by their own means, often thanks to the help of their brothers in arms; As they did not transit through the military camps, they were parked under conditions that gave them the right to fair treatment. To exclude them from the scheme would be to impose a double penalty. All this justifies granting them individual financial compensation but also non-discriminatory recognition, which will be a source of appeasement. At the risk of surprising you, ladies and gentlemen, I will even quote Che Guevara: "Above all, always be able to feel in the depths of your heart any injustice committed against anyone, anywhere in the world." He even added: "This is the most beautiful quality of a revolutionary." I would like to say to the Algerian people, whose anti-French sentiment still prevails, that it is not for us to put a veil on a war that for so long had no name for it. It was indeed a war, led by our country against a people in which the Algerian national idea grew year after year and the widely shared conviction that the improvement of its situation was impossible in the colonial context. It is this war, presented as a simple police operation, but also the too long refusal to seek a peaceful solution, which has stirred up the hatreds, fed by the up to-the-boutists of all sides. The ambivalence and hybridity of the colonial context led Algerians attached to their end of France, in fact a France which, in my opinion, was not France, to throw themselves in a battle against the emancipatory struggle of their own people, who claimed their right to self-determination. They came out as ghosts of themselves, broken, mutilated, impoverished, dispossessed of their property, but also uprooted – not the least of their suffering –, cut off from their native land, this place, in the words of Charles Péguy, "where one can speak a language, where one can reign morals, a spirit, a soul, a cult. It is all the more true that they were then abandoned to their fate, and that they were assigned labels to the antinomic, "victim" or "collaborator" titles: they were deprived by some of the recognition that their commitment deserved, and dishonoured by others for not being removed from their dependence on colonizers. That is why I think that the act that we are going to perform goes beyond mere repentance; It will help to work on memory issues in a calming climate. It is part of the important work of memory that must be engaged on both sides, in Algeria and France, in a reciprocal way, so that we find ourselves in a shared history, allowing each one not to remain locked in his own experience. It is high time to build bridges between our two peoples to ensure their trusting and friendly relations, in the same way as the great work of reconciliation that has brought France and Germany closer together. This requires that the requirement of truth is not one-way and that the work of memory does not become a large market, in which everyone selects the products that suit him or her according to his or her electoral interest. In order to propel joint initiatives, there is no shortage of subjects, from the thousands of deaths of the massacre of Sétif on 8 May 1945 to the murder of the young communist mathematician Maurice Audin in 1957, from the abuses of each other to the murders of Paris on 17 October 1961, not to mention the many other civilian and military victims of the two camps, who, on each side of the Mediterranean, remain waiting for their pain to be appeased. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Everyone will understand that it is not for me – for us – to undermine the great interest of the text that we are about to vote on, but rather to stress that we are involved in opening up a path. This path will honour our country, which must learn from the history it inherited in order to assume without complacency its dark pages as its most glorious moments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u62	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u63	I am very happy and very moved to be here with you today to conclude our discussions on a bill that has been considered historically. Such a text of recognition and reparation was essential for us to move forward on the path of reconciliation of memories. You know that he is particularly close to my heart; Indeed, as a member of parliament for the third constituency of Lot-et-Garonne, where the city of Bias is located, which had one of the six temporary reception facilities for returnees from Algeria – the famous camps, the camps of dishonour – I have been working on this subject for many years. The draft law follows on from the statements of the President of the Republic of 20 September 2021, in which he undertook to see the conclusion of a text recognizing the nation and redressing the harm suffered by the harkis, by the other persons repatriated from Algeria formerly of civil status under local law and by their families as a result of the conditions of their reception in French territory. It is the culmination of a long process, begun in 2001, aimed at recognizing the abandonment of these persons by the French Republic. Here we come together to advance history, but also to bring this unglorious episode of France's history to light. It is important that this part of our past be known to all, and I will present an amendment on this matter earlier: it is the history of France, the history of the Republic, but it is also our history. We, the representatives of the nation, must contribute to this duty of remembrance. As noted earlier, the bill follows up on a proposal from the July 2018 report by Prefect Ceaux, entitled "Aux harkis, la France appreciativee" and aimed at "accepting the full recognition by the national representation of the fate of the harkis and their families both in Algeria and on the occasion of their arrival in France. It therefore aims, in the words of the President of the Republic on 20 September, to "include in the marble of our laws the recognition and reparation of the harkis. » More specifically, it recognises, without ambiguity, the responsibility of the authorities in the indignity of the reception conditions reserved for harkis in our country after the Evian agreements. Yes, France has abandoned them; Yes, France turned its back on them; Yes, it is our duty to recognize and repair it. The recognition of the nation is also expressed by the payment of recognition and living allowances, which have already been increased by 600 euros since 2017 and will soon be doubled, as announced by the Minister Delegate. Reparation for the harm suffered by the harkis and their families in the name of the indignity of their reception and living conditions in forest hamlets and other reception facilities: this is a major step forward! This is the first time the law has made reparation. The text introduces a remedy which takes a flat-rate form and takes account of the length of stay in the structures concerned; it also establishes a national commission for recognition and reparation; Finally, it removes two foreclosure mechanisms that were countervailable to the claims for lifetime allowance made by surviving spouses and former spouses – such a measure was a strong claim of the harkis families. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] I simply and sincerely hope that on this 18 November, we can be proud of the work we have done. Following the examination of the text in committee, we have worked with several groups on joint amendments, which will be proposed to you earlier. I hope that we will reach a consensus in the House, so that we can move forward unanimously on the subject. Finally, I would like to express a special thought about my harki friends from Lot-et-Garonne, with whom I have worked a lot in recent years. Personally, as sons of returnees from North Africa, I am thinking in particular of my family.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u64	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u65	It is with responsibility and seriousness that I speak about a text long awaited by those whom we call the harkis, but who are first and foremost French citizens – by virtue of the ordinance of 21 July 1962 – and which the Republic has brutalized. This is the symbolic outcome of a long fight, to which I would like to associate all those who, before me, have never spared their time for this cause: Michèle Tabarot, Guy Teissier, Valérie Boyer, Fabrice Brun or Bernard Reynès. I do so with all the more humility as I have carried to the buttonhole, since my beginnings in politics, this cross of Lorraine, which was the symbol of the Resistance and then of Gaullism, and that it is up to me, on behalf of the Group of the Republicans, to express myself on a text that attempts to repair a human drama on which the shadow of General de Gaulle hangs. As the bachagha Said Boualam, who was vice-president of the National Assembly, says so well: "The harkis [...] are the children of these villages, of these destroyed schools, the agricultural workers of these burnt lands, the fathers, the brothers of these murdered children, organizing themselves in self-defence harkas, under the authority of their caid and French officers, so that the time of the assassins will cease and peace will return to the villages. As early as May 1962, he denounced to Parliament the conditions under which they were received. Alain Peyrefitte will write in his memoirs: "In this case, the general demonstrated unnecessary cruelty. » The fate of the harkis mingled with that of the returnees, whom Gaston Defferre, mayor of Marseilles, wanted to " hang, [...] shoot, [...] reject to the sea", and whom the communists called fascists. Let us recognize it with lucidity: no political camp – Gaullists, Socialists, Communists – has honoured itself in the way of welcoming those who had lost everything. That is why I have always thought that the time has come for our generation to repair and not repent. That was the meaning of an open letter I had sent to the President of the Republic with thirty-two parliamentarians from the Republican Group, in which we wanted reparation to be made for the harkis and their families. By presenting this text, you are making a very strong symbolic advance, but you are also causing a lot of disappointment, as your commitment is limited. Your bill is only addressed to second-generation harkis who have passed through transit camps or forest hamlets, as if your goal was above all to close the breach opened by the State's condemnation for the benefit of Abdelkader Tamazount, son of harkis, in October 2018. By moving away from the first generation, you hide the history of the soldiers and their legacy. By sorting the harkis, you leave thousands of cases behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u66	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u67	In Marseille, some harkis were directly integrated into the HLM city. Others joined Mas-Thibert, a fief of the Bashagha Boualam, who was not a camp as such. A woman from Pertuis sent me another testimony: "I was born and lived out of camp. We lived at seven, in one room. Our living conditions were precarious, we did not have water or electricity and we did not eat to our hunger. Discrimination was also our daily life, in the school, professional and social fields. My family and I feel excluded and rejected again, as in our childhood. What do I have to understand? That there are two categories of harkis? That my father, who fought three wars for France, doesn't have the same rights as the other harkis? If you want such a law to be useful and to vote for it, do not prioritize suffering. The bill was then incomplete because it did not take into account the psychological damage caused by the camps and the dispossession of rights. Since you are opening a new stage, after Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande, we will now have to deal conscientiously and seriously with the subject, to close it permanently. [[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] It is also the political signal that we want to send, while your memorial policy has been strongly criticized. It began with offensive remarks by the President of the Republic on colonization and continued with Benjamin Stora's report, openly biased in favour of the Algerian version of the conflict. However, these men who did not have a French name and who were of Muslim religion defended France better than some traitors to the nation. As the National Committee of Understanding (CNE) of Patriotic Associations wrote, was it necessary to suggest, through the process of recognition initiated by President Macron, that Maurice Audin, because he had been a victim, became a hero, forgetting that he had betrayed his homeland, his fellow citizens and the French army?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u68	A little dignity, Mr. Aubert!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u69	In the name of a peaceful relationship with Algeria, one cannot put on the same level executioners and victims, those who believed in France and those who did not believe in it. It would be as stupid as putting London and Montoire on the same plan in the name of Franco-German friendship. There must be no accounting or political back-thinking behind our actions. We owe it to all those who have seen their relatives, friends or cousins killed by the fellaghas; we owe it to these thousands of soldiers betrayed by a France they had wanted to defend; We owe it to these young French people who have been robbed of their youth. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thousands of eyes are watching us today in the shadows of time and the retreats of the Republic; These are the eyes of the dead and the living, the ghosts of the past, but also those that the Republic has made invisible. I hope we find you at the time of the story; Here we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u70	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u71	At the final of the French rugby championship, the Top 14, on June 4, 2017, between the Toulouse rugby club (RCT) and the Monterrand sports association (ASM) Clermont Auvergne, at the stadium of France, in the presence of the President of the Republic, my friend Mohand Hamoumou, former mayor of Volvic, had mentioned what brings us together today: the need for a real law of recognition and forgiveness for the harkis. I am pleased that this text is being drafted on 18 November 2021 and that you, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, will be joined by the representatives of the harkis associations in these circumstances. On 20 September 2021, since the Elysée, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, asked for forgiveness from women and men who, faced with the dilemma, had given subsequent generations the hope that the nation of human rights would become theirs. As if the fact of having to choose between a lineage, whose traditions guarantee the solidity of a culture that nothing will quell, and a future, placed under the sign of universality and a promise of emancipation, was not cruel enough, these women and men were first plunged into the negation of what makes France: raised to the rank of citizens of local law, before being abandoned to their lot or locked in camps, for those who had escaped a brutal and certain massacre, they were exposed to the worst contempt of the human condition. [[Smile]] Let us pause for a moment on these words of "abandonment" and "camp," and try to represent what these people have experienced and what has remained engraved in them. Let us try to feel it in the deepest of our hearts, as André Chassaigne invited us, quoting Che Guevara. Let us think of those women and men who were lynched there, those and those whom we left to die in homes without a shot. We have given birth to generations marked by anger! But "the path of anger is not that of justice," wrote François Léotard in Pour l'honneur in 1997. This is precisely the spirit that guides Emmanuel Macron's action. It is in order to repair this painful episode of the history of our country that the President of the Republic has instructed you, Mrs Darrieussecq, as Minister Delegate to the Minister of Armed Forces, Florence Parly, in charge of memory and veterans, to present a bill recognizing that France has abandoned the former members of its supplementary formations, despite their engagement with the French armed forces, during the Algerian war. This text affirms, for the first time, the desire to redress the damage caused by the particularly precarious and degrading conditions of their reception in France. By including the recognition of this abandonment and the necessary reparation for the harm suffered by the harkis in a bill made of marble in which the most beautiful texts of the Republic are engraved, the President of the Republic opens the way to forgiveness, justice and the right to honour. It is also the honour of France, whose greatness it is to assume its entire history since the late President Jacques Chirac opened the way, also at the Palais de l'Élysée, during the speech delivered on 30 January 2006 before the National Committee for the Memory and History of Slavery: "With its glorious pages, but also with its shadow part, our history is that of a great nation. Let's look at her with pride. Let's look at her as she was." This is precisely what Emmanuel Macron invites us to do at every memorial appointment: to look at the history of our nation in its moments of glory, but also in its moments of doubt and failure. Madam Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen, we will always look at our history as it is and we will never break it down. No statue will be debunked, no street will be debunked, no book will be burned. We can remain united in the face of our history because we are free and this freedom is a "system of courage", as Charles Péguy wrote: courage to look, to assume, to say what is like what has been. To say to the harkis, their children and their grandchildren who have grown up with us, that we ask for forgiveness and that we write this forgiveness in the tables of the law. We ask them for forgiveness for these pages of the story they wrote in spite of them, as those who, out of duty, had moved to Algeria. We know that almost all of these were not colonizers and that their children born there are not the fruit of monsters, contrary to what a well-known editorialist recently said. With the exception of a few families – two hundred? Three hundred? – they were more than a million to consider Algerian indigenous people as their fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Thanks to the road opened by President Chirac and extended by President Macron, we are moving forward and looking this story in front of us. Because it is still looking for what is right, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the draft law on the recognition of the nation and reparation for the harm suffered by the harkis and their descendants, which has always called for the strengthening of national unity and cohesion, out of love for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u72	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u73	The presence in the fora of representatives of our Harki fellow citizens attests to the attention given by this community to the decisions that will be taken today by the National Assembly. My colleague Christine Pires Beaune reminded me just now of the exemplary journey of Mohand Hamoumou, who resides like her in the Puy-de-Dôme. This man, who has always felt French, in Algeria and France, has demonstrated, through the mandates he has exercised in his department, how much his generation has brought to our country. I would also like to welcome the presence of the first secretary of the Socialist Party, Olivier Faure: our group has made the choice to be represented at the highest level of our party for the consideration of this bill. It is certainly not for the National Assembly to write history, for history is the business of peoples and historians. Political leaders are making mistakes when they try to write it. However, when they look at history, they can bring solemnity to it. It is this spirit that guides us and inspires our colleague Olivier Faure. His presence, as well as the amendments that we tabled and the positions that we defended during committee work, demonstrate our willingness, in the face of the tragedy of the harkis, to enrich the bill. We have told you, Madam Chair of the Commission: we want a calm consensus on this text so that national representation can convey a shared message to our compatriots on the measures that we are going to adopt. We have made several proposals for improving the text, with the concern, in particular, not to be mistaken in the words we choose. In the face of such a tragedy, indeed, every word counts. It may not be up to us to write history, but we have a duty not to be mistaken about the words we use in the law. This is the meaning of one of our amendments, which is in line with the ideas expressed by François Hollande in his statement of 25 September 2016, when he was Head of State. As far as harkis are concerned, it is obviously not possible to speak of "abandonment" since it is a "abandonment". The national community has indeed abandoned the harkis. And if we have to ask them for forgiveness for the tragedy – and I insist on that – that they have lived through, we must first and foremost repair the damage they have suffered. Similarly, they did not suffer from "insecure reception conditions", as the original text claimed, but from "inhumane reception conditions". I regret, Madam Deputy Minister, that you did not take the words of François Hollande's statement further in your speech in the gallery as you did in committee. François Hollande had referred to the inhuman reception conditions of families transferred to camps in France and had called on the national community to repair the damage inflicted on the harkis. We will also ensure that the bill does not remain a declaratory text, full of good will, but without concrete translation. In particular, we hope that all harkis will receive the financial compensation due to them. To this end, the creation of a pluralistic commission, composed in an intelligent manner and including parliamentarians and representatives of the Harki community, is indispensable. This commission, called the National Commission for the Recognition and Reparation of the Damages of the Harki, will have to choose a satisfactory reparation mechanism in the eyes of our fellow citizens. Harki associations would have preferred full reparation, but the Government chose a flat-rate subsidy based on the number of months spent in the camps – it is clear why technically. The Socialist and Related Group has proposed an intermediate solution: a flat-rate aid taking into account all the damage suffered and not just the time spent in the camps. We also want the repair system to apply as widely as possible. While the existing aid benefits only 5,469 people, we ask that the scope of the scheme cover the 50,000 people who may be affected. We will also have to ensure that the human and financial resources devoted to processing applications are sufficient. Similarly, the missions of the National Commission for the Recognition and Reparation of Harki Damages to the National Office for War Veterans and Victims (ONACVG) will have to be clearly defined. Finally, the bill provides that the lump sum amount of compensation shall take into account the amounts already received. In the absence of sufficient speaking time, unfortunately, I cannot further develop our proposals. When I spoke earlier on the first two texts on the agenda, after our colleague Josy Poueyto, I referred to the harki families of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques who live in his constituency and in mine, that is to say in Pau and Mourenx. I mentioned the Benedin, Rafa and Ferki families, who have made our country and our region rich. By speaking this morning on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I have a thought for them and their children. The grandsons Ferki are my children's friends: they see each other every weekend! The integration of harkis has therefore sometimes been a success:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u74	Often!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u75	...I want to say so, because French society also knows how to create positive paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u76	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u77	[[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Deputy Minister, I ask you, as in committee, to do everything possible to ensure that this bill is the subject of a calmed consensus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u78	[[Smile]] I'm gonna be charged with favouritism, Mr. Habib! Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u79	They were Arabs or Berbers, their names were often Muslim, but France was beating their hearts. They loved more than the whole tricolor flag. They loved the country that had become their homeland, the country of freedom, the generous nation that the whole world spoke with respect. Winter 1962: it was cold, very cold. The Harki survivors had been parked in prefabricated barracks, in camps of pain and shame. We know the unspeakable, unacceptable, immoral fate of the harkis. We know that in Paris, the decision had long been taken to abandon Algeria to its fate, that "ballet" as the then head of state called it. The harkis paid the high price for this betrayal. A few tens of thousands of them were able to leave the French Algerian ship before waves of blood took it into the depths of history. For others, the atrocious, the horror, the hell began. Tortured, begged, martyred, some slaughtered, impaled, eviscerated, hanged, burned alive, depecated, buried alive, enucleated, scrambled, forced to swallow their medals, crucified, eyes punctured, nose and ears cut off, tongue torn, flesh thrown to dogs, women raped and then ripped off, infants with crushed heads, death was then a deliverance. In an attempt to repair his fault, France must honour the harkis properly, give them their full place in the national narrative, and rehabilitate their courage and dream. Yes, their dream of being both Arabic and French. I would like to take this opportunity to greet all those who are present in the gallery or outside the Assembly to follow our debates, with a special thought for those who have come, many, from Béziers and around and an emotional thought for my friend Nourredine Abid, who unfortunately left us too early. May this legislation bring them some peace and dignity to which they have aspired for almost sixty years. I read this morning the testimony of a son of harki: "We feel that something is not settled, which blurs our history and our identity. The harkis need to reconnect with their dignity. To do this, we need to extend recognition and reparation to the harkis who remained in Algeria, often imprisoned and tortured, and then returned to France after 1975. For them, too, it is necessary to work on claims for compensation in the light of the damage suffered and not lump sum, and to restore their dignity to the harkis by responding to the demands of families who have seen too many of them die in the unworthy camps in which the French Government had parked them. Too often, the bodies of these deceased have never had the right to a burial worthy of that name. Dignity, again. And then, finally, the truth. Madam Minister Delegate, I have heard you mention 19 March as the date of the end of the fighting in Algeria: we must stop with this fiction. If we want to repair effectively, we must first restore the truth. This truth, we owe it to the French of Algeria, to the blackfoot, but also to the harkis, our brothers and sisters of arms who stood by us in front of the terrorists of the Front de libération nationale (FLN) and who lost everything because of their commitment to our country, our beautiful country, France. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If France finally asks for forgiveness for what she has done to her harki children, then we can finally turn this page of pain, shame and betrayal together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u80	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] I would like to thank all of you for the quality of this debate. Your interventions show that the subject we are working on is extremely important. I remember Mr Corbière's sentence: "The war is over. Other interventions put a piece in the memory-confrontation machine. I hope that this bill will be discussed under seal, not with respect for the uniformness of the memoirs, but with respect for each memory and its appeasement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u83	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u84	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is only on this condition that this law can be strong for the harkis, but also for the entire national community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u85	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u86	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u87	There are moments when one is proud to be a parliamentarian and to represent the nation as a whole, assuming its entire history. I would like to bear witness to my experience when I was among the first in my youth to perform civilian service. I was fortunate enough to be assigned to the service of the returnees' community, particularly with the Harkis of Roubaix and Tourcoing. I have learned a lot from these children and grandchildren of the first generation. They did not ask much, simply to be able to live well, to be recognized by the nation and to be able to benefit from the social elevator like all the French. Then, a young certified professor of history, in Roubaix, I measured the complexity of the relations between the different communities within a class, and the need for a history to come to appease situations that are often confrontational, fantasized, and lacking a historical approach without ideology. [[Applause on the panel's benches]] Today, we will repair and ensure that the nation reconciles around its history and makes room for a community that deserves this recognition. When one has given his blood for France, his name is inscribed in the monuments to the dead, that one has dedicated his life to a homeland, she must know how to be grateful and to live up to the meeting with her history, and above all to show her humanity towards all her children. Thank you and congratulations! I hope that what we are going to do will be able to calm down and repair on a lasting basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u88	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u89	At the beginning of this parliamentary debate, I welcome the initiative of the President of the Republic and his Government, not to mention what his predecessors, including Jacques Chirac, have done on this delicate issue. I am the only deputy of the Lozère, and I must greet all the many harkis who have been welcomed in this rural department. In response to the comments made by the Deputy Minister and the rapporteur, I would like, beyond any ideological differences, to express my support for the legislative work that has been undertaken. Yes, the fault of the French State must be recognized. Yes, the suffering endured by the harkis must be reminded of all our fellow citizens. The proposed text, which will be amended, is structured between recognition and reparation. I fully support him. At the end of our discussions, we will have made a major contribution to the reparation with the creation of a special commission which, in parallel with the work of the ONACVG, will analyse each individual situation. The Commission's annual report and its powers of proposal will help to avoid avoiding difficult cases. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] Finally, the legislative consecration of the National Day of Tribute to the Harkis and other members of the supplementary formations, on 25 September, will give a true recognition to all the Harkis and their families. Thank you for this initiative and for this debate on this dark page in the history of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u90	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u91	"They have received us as beasts. It is a returnee who passed through the citadel of Amiens and then through the citadel of Doullens for three years that bears witness to this. "France laughed at us, it left us ten square meters for two families. They split us up with a sheet in the middle, it was worse than a stable. And in winter we didn't have any heating, winter was terrible, we were freezing, my wife was pregnant, our babies were in the swaddles. » The French state abandoned the harkis for the first time in Algeria, then the survivors were abandoned a second time in camps in the forest, in sites far away from the cities as at my home, at the Briqueterie. Of course, we are in favour of the nation recognizing its wrongs and the harm suffered by the harkis. We will vote in favour of the text. It remains a concern: this recognition, as always for forty years, is done by DIY and with pingrerie. Thus, the harkis of Picardie would not be entitled to any reparations at the moment – but we hope for improvements – because the doullens citadel is not included in the official list of camps. We are contesting, with the associations of returnees, the principle of this bureaucratic triage between the harkis, this accounting approach which counts the years in camp, the number of people affected, but not the psychological disorders or the social damage caused by having grown up and lived in a ghetto. [[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] With this way of doing things half way – we will, however, take the glass half full – I fear that the reparation will not be complete and that it will leave the returnees and their children a bitter taste. I regret this and hope that our debate will correct these flaws.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u92	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u93	A tree like sea pine matures in forty or fifty years – it can live up to five hundred years – and sixty years separate us from the arrival of harkis in Hexagon. I draw this comparison because in the Var, their imprint marks the Mediterranean forest. The harkis have shaped it by clearing, planting, maintaining the slopes and forest roads necessary in the event of a fire. The forest owes them a lot and we owe them a lot. Too few people relate their voluntary participation, in August 1944, to the landing of Provence so dear to my heart. By tens of thousands, they bravely fought to come and free us. Mutual aid and sharing have continued in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. Nagles was the first host village of harakat groups, whose members are designated as harkis. It now houses a house of memory and history. The help of French soldiers, especially Lieutenant Durand, was decisive in the journey of men, women and children who went through the turmoil of the Algerian war, as mentioned in the documents given to me by representatives of the harkis last weekend. The recognition of the nation to former members of the suppletive forces and the responsibility of France for the unworthy conditions for the reception in its territory of the harkis and their families is included in Article 1 of the draft law. It is the translation of the abandonment felt by the harkis and their families. It recognizes the unworthy reception of repatriated harkis, especially those relegated to the camps. It testifies to the lack of access to the school of the Republic for their children in disregard of the values that underpin France and the law that unites us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The first financial component, of 50 million euros, was voted in the finance bill for 2022. Today, we are laying an additional and important stone with this text which recognizes, beyond partisan divisions, the feeling of abandonment. I thank the rapporteur and all the Members who will vote for her adoption. It will lead to a paradigm shift from attendance to reparation, from social to justice. It is the closing of the reconciliation of the nation with its components.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u94	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u95	Madam Minister Delegate, your text has a huge promise, that of recognition and reparation to the harkis and their families. As it stands, when you take the trouble of reading it, this immense promise is not fully fulfilled. The recognition due to the harkis by the French nation is shipped in three lines. Even if these words are strong, three lines are obviously very little for nearly 100,000 uprooted lives, for at least 100,000 combatants abandoned on the spot and for nearly 600,000 victims of massacres. France, through the voice of the National Assembly, has already had the opportunity to express its gratitude to the harkis. A first time in a 1987 law, a second time in a 1994 law, a third time in a 2005 law, each time under the impetus of Jacques Chirac. But as with you, history only begins in 2017, you let a little too much hear, outside of this assembly, that this recognition would be a first. It therefore appears to be weak and insufficient. The same applies to repair. The gap between the ambition of words – how do we repair the irreparable and inexcusable? – and your offer of compensation for living conditions in unworthy camps, gives rise to a feeling of insufficiency. The sacrifice of the harkis is no doubt the most moving, heroic but also the most painful and tragic that has been given to the French nation since the Resistance. This testimony of love for France, its values and its image, we have disappointed him. Your text has no alternative but to live up to our duty of gratitude – that is the meaning of the amendments that we will defend – or to recognize, with more humility than the President of the Republic has done, that it will only be a small additional recognition, necessarily insufficient and unworthy of the commitment of the harkis for France, a commitment that will forever oblige us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u96	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u97	We wish to stress that some of the substitutes that were alongside France during this conflict were already soldiers. Many of them had served France during the Second World War. It is therefore necessary to stress the continuity of their commitment and to insist that it was not ad hoc, but was long-term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u99	It is against the amendment, not because of the mention of the Algerian war – which, in fact, seems to me rather timely – but because its adoption would lead to the deletion of the mention of the abandonment to which the harkis have been subjected, which we have introduced in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u101	Perhaps I have misunderstood the meaning of your amendment, but I would like to assure you that the state fully assumes the characterization of the "war of Algeria" that you want to include in the text: it officially enshrined it through the law of 18 October 1999, instead of the reference "to operations carried out in North Africa". Beyond its symbolic dimension, this recognition has completed the long-established movement to provide the former members with additional training in specific rights as part of their commitment to the service of France. The Act of 9 December 1974 had thus opened the arrangements provided for in the Code on Military Disability Pensions and War Victims for Veterans, while the Act of 11 June 1994 had created a new pension scheme for persons captured in Algeria after 2 July 1962. I hope that the language chosen will be as simple as possible. Of course, we know that the harkis also fought during the two world wars. To this end, I have proposed a booklet of recognition of African fighters – including combatants from North Africa – who have served France, so that mayors can name streets and public spaces in tribute to them. I would like to recall the title of the text that we are considering, because it seems to me that it sums up the issue: it is the "draft law on the recognition of the nation and compensation for the harm suffered by the harkis, by the other persons repatriated from Algeria formerly of civil status under local law and by their families as a result of the conditions for their reception in French territory". I am against the amendment, while understanding your spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u102	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u103	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I thank you for these explanations, which prompt me to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u104	I have before me two amendments, Nos 64 and 134, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u105	Outside this chamber, harkis – and especially their descendants – demonstrate to express a claim: they ask France to recognize that they were primarily French citizens, instead of systematically referring them to the condition of indigenate or to any other particular status. The amendment is intended to respond to this request by stating that the harkis have served France in Algeria "as French citizens". Such an addition would in no way alter the meaning of the text, but would make it possible to affirm that beyond the various terms usually used – "supplementary forces", "harkis" – these persons were indeed French citizens, before losing that nationality in favour of the Evian agreements, and then recovering it under the order of 21 July 1962.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u106	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u107	Our colleague Julien Aubert has just recalled, many harkis very much want their status as French citizens to be inscribed in the marble of the law. As the ambition of this bill is to recognise France's responsibility in the indignity of the conditions for the reception of the harkis, I believe that it is important, in order to achieve this objective, to name precisely the events and the people involved. This was recalled during the general discussion, in the aftermath of Algeria's independence, the harkis suffered full harassment and discrimination, beginning with the imposition of a procedure for reinstatement into French nationality, when they were assured in 1958 that there was now only one category of French in Algeria. It is therefore appropriate to write black and white in the law that they were indeed French citizens. The President of the Republic himself recalled this in his speech of 20 September, "the harkis have been, have always been and are French, by bloodshed, the chosen fighting and their birth, every time".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u108	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u109	Although their purpose is slightly different, I will give a joint reply to the amendments tabled by Mr Aubert and Mrs Ménard, who intend to emphasise the French citizenship and nationality of the harkis at the time of their repatriation. I made myself very clear in my introductory remarks, addressing "these French citizens, our compatriots, veterans of the French army, engaged under our three colors during the Algerian war". The wording adopted in the text, which enshrines the recognition of the French State and the French nation towards the Harki veterans, is also clear. I would point out that the Council of State, the Constitutional Council and the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) have in turn invalidated the nationality criteria required for granting the recognition allowance. Discrimination on the basis of nationality is incompatible with article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. You will understand, therefore, that I am sending an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u111	If I understand the spirit of your amendments, I would point out that the membership of the harkis and their relatives in the national community is a reality which, in my personal capacity, I stress in each of my speeches. This statement is reiterated in all official statements, including those – by definition stronger and more important than mine – of the President of the Republic, who recalled that the history of the harkis was a French history, a French history. There is no doubt about that. The recognition provided for in section 1 must, in my view, remain as concise and clear as possible: it is a matter of honouring these veterans by passing legislation, not by delivering a speech. If we wanted to recall too many facts, sometimes without normative consequences, we would expose ourselves to the usual criticisms of those who denounce too talkative a right. A final point leads me to express an unfavourable opinion: the adoption of these amendments could have consequences for a few harkis – albeit very minority – who were not present in Algeria as French citizens or nationals, but as combatants from the former protectorates of Morocco and Tunisia. Such persons could be excluded from the recognition and reparation provided for in the text. These special cases exist and several have already been identified. These are the arguments that prompt me to give an unfavorable opinion, even though I understand the spirit of your proposal – a spirit that we subscribe to, since we consistently affirm in our speeches that the harki are indeed French citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u112	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u113	This is not just a point of detail. Think that the arguments you have put forward are contradictory: you make sure you recognize in your speeches that the harkis are French, but you do not want to include it in the law, because you think it would be dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u114	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u115	Yes, that's what you said, both of you: The rapporteur said that she had started her introductory remarks by acknowledging that the harkis were French citizens and that she had concluded her opinion by ensuring that she systematically recalled their status as French. If they are, it must be recognized in the law. Then comes the legal argument. I would admit that a few individuals may eventually not be covered by our amendments. However, it is not a question of creating the norm here, but of recognizing that the harkis have served France in Algeria as French citizens. That's the first point. Secondly, the jurisprudence of the ECHR, the Council of State or the Constitutional Council has no place in our work: the Assembly makes the law. Don't make us believe that some harkis would lose their allowance if Members recognized the quality that each of them recognizes elsewhere. Let us not scrutinize this question as if it were a detail or as if it was only important not to overburden the text. You stress that the law must not be too talkative, but above all it must be complete and exhaustive. It is not a question of adding, but of supplementing the wording so that the text is as fair as possible and gives the main concerned the recognition they expect. I would like to warn you that we will be defending an amendment with a similar objective at a later stage. I can hear the legal arguments that you are opposing, but I fear that, beyond the law, you will send a political signal that will be perceived quite negatively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u116	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u117	Thomas Gassilloud recalled earlier that the deputies were not meant to make history: indisputably, this role belongs to historians. But since we are talking about history, it seems to me that we still need to be precise. Our colleagues, in the summary statements of their amendments, explain that the harkis were French like the others. That is not true, and if it had been, the story might have been different.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u118	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u119	Even the ordinances of 15 November 1958, which greatly changed the status of those who were then called "Muslims" or "indigenous", did not create the conditions for full equality of rights among the inhabitants of that territory: they did not vote in the same colleges or for the same elected officials and a weighting was applied to the votes. If we want to enrich the page of the history of France which is now occupied with us, not least by granting reparations, but also by stating the truth in the rostrum of the National Assembly, let us not allow us to believe that all the inhabitants of the territory which subsequently became Algeria were equal citizens of rights, because that is not correct. Let us not hurt memories again: this could have been the case, but it was not. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] In this capacity, I invite everyone not to rewrite history by defending their arguments, moreover quite legitimate. This story is painful and even tragic, but paying tribute is also telling the truth in all its complexity. It is also a recognition that, contrary to the idea I have of the Republic, all citizens living in this territory were unfortunately not equal in rights, even though their status had changed considerably, in particular thanks to the ordinances of 1958.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u120	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u121	That has been said, this text, which aims to recognise France's responsibility and to grant reparations to the harkis who have suffered unworthy reception conditions, cannot have a purely symbolic scope. However, we cannot deny that there is a symbolic dimension; and the recognition of their French citizenship is very important for the harkis. By sweeping it with a back of hand from Article 1, while it would be perfectly legitimate to put it black on white in the law, we would not start the examination of the text well. We will hardly achieve our goal of reparation and appeasement if we do not at least accede to claims made fully legitimate by the history of the harkis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u122	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u123	It is again a question of supplementing the first paragraph by stating that the nation expresses its gratitude to the harkis that it has abandoned "or received indecent conditions in view of their sacrifice". I will not recall the sacrifices made by the harkis – they were discussed at length during the general discussion – but it seems to me essential to recognize them from the first paragraph of Article 1. Let us not forget, in fact, that the harkis were not welcomed and treated as returnees: this status was reserved for people of European origin, i.e. blackfoot. This distinction had, moreover, been justified by General de Gaulle himself in these terms, at a Council of Ministers of 25 July 1962: "The term "repatriate" obviously does not apply to Muslims: they do not return to the land of their fathers! In their case, they could only be refugees! » It is also because of this terrible injustice that we insist on French citizenship. If we want to recognize the sacrifice of the harkis who fought for the French flag, who were brothers of arms for our own soldiers, we must do so fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u125	The drafting of an article with a memorial scope is always delicate and the legislator must be precise and concise. Thus we chose the notion of abandonment rather than the notion of abandonment, which was also possible, which corresponds to the request of the associations we received and to the words given by the President of the Republic. It seems to me that this word is broad enough to cover all situations, so it does not seem useful to me to multiply the formulas which might reduce the scope of the text. Moreover, the reference to "indecent conditions in view of their sacrifice" suggests that the reparation by this bill of the indecency of the living conditions of the harkis would be justified only by the sacrifices made by them, which I find unworthy. Do we have to infer from this that, in your opinion, those who do not sacrifice themselves for France could be welcomed under the same conditions without anyone being able to say again? I would add that we prefer to describe the reception and living conditions to which harkis have been subjected as "unworthy" rather than "indecent". Thus, this amendment, far from providing any clarification, disturbs the intent of the bill and minimizes the suffering endured by the harkis by simply calling them "indecent". That was certainly not your intention, which is why I want to do you a favor by issuing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u127	I would remind you that the purpose of Article 1 is twofold. In the first paragraph, it is a question of officially expressing the recognition of the nation towards the former members of the supplementary formations which served France in Algeria and which it abandoned. On the other hand, the second paragraph seeks to affirm for the first time the desire to redress the damage caused by the unworthy conditions for the reception of former members of the supplementary training courses in the national territory. This amendment does not add value to the current wording of the second subparagraph. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u128	I have before me two amendments, Nos 26 and 112, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u129	This is an amendment by the Republican Group. In this bill, you chose to focus on France's responsibility for reception, ignoring its responsibility for the abandonment of the Harki massacred on Algerian territory. In the letter that they sent me, some descendants, wishing to move forward on this issue, propose the notion of shared responsibility, an expression that I do not like too much even if I know that it receives the favours of some colleagues in my group. It does not, in my view, make it possible to distinguish Algeria's responsibility for the massacres, which is real, from that of France, which certainly abandoned the harkis by leaving them there but which did not kill or massacre the populations directly. That is why the amendment seeks to insert a subparagraph in which it is stated that "France recognizes its full responsibility for the order given by the French Government not to repatriate the harkis" and "recognizes that this abandonment has led to the populations of harkis and persons formerly of civil status under local law, exposed to reprisals by members of the Front de libération nationale, to a tragic and often fatal fate". This seems to me to be a further reflection of the chain of responsibility on this painful issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u130	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u131	This is an amendment by the IDU and independent group which carries the same hope as the one just presented by Mr Aubert. I will add two elements of explanation. The responsibility of the nation, which we wish to see recognized, is linked not only to the order given not to repatriate the harkis and their families, but also to the Obelisk plan aimed at disarming the harkis left in Algeria, as well as to the decision – which must not be forgotten – not to interfere between the FLN and the harkis when reprisals began. It is not, of course, a question of saying that France has a responsibility for massacres or reprisals – in this I fully agree with Mr Aubert. The objective of this text, which we support, is threefold: to express, as it should be, our gratitude for the sacrifice and investment of the harkis; recognize the responsibility of our nation in the unworthy reception conditions – which will be widely discussed in our discussion – that have been reserved for them; Finally, to recognize that in deciding to leave them on Algerian soil, our country has a responsibility in the fate of thousands of harkis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u133	I would like to respond in detail to these amendments and, in doing so, to others, who will soon be presented, also under joint discussion, and who are dealing with the same subject. Indeed, several amendments seek to recognise France's responsibility for the abandonment of harkis and their families in Algeria after the signing of the Evian agreements. While their drafting varies, all tend to recognize a fault of the State and to base the commitment of its responsibility. Reparation measures are more targeted, I fully assume. They specifically concern all harkis and their close families who have stayed in camps and forest hamlets. The distinction between a general recognition of the abandonment of the harkis and a targeted reparation is due to the judgment that we, the representatives of the nation, are entitled to bear in front of history. As the President of the Republic said on 20 September, it is not up to us to judge the attitude and decisions of the leaders of the time. It is up to historians, not us, to carry out this work. The abandonment is indeed an extremely complex situation, which France faced in the loss of a particularly valuable territory, in which many French citizens resided. It is not up to us to judge the role of the leaders of the time, almost sixty years after the facts. The reception conditions, on the other hand, are the deliberate choice of France at the time, that of social relegation and the civic and human degradation of citizens which France could and should have treated with dignity. That is why the reparation measures provided for in Article 2 are justified. Let's go on with this memorial work! I will give an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u134	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u135	I agree with the rapporteur. I would add that we must show great humility when we look at this situation. Indeed, this time was complex, bringing with it many mistakes, prejudices and naiveties. We must exclude any generalization. I recall that a plan for the repatriation – although very insufficient, we will perhaps return to it later – of those then known as the French Muslims was deployed after the Evian agreements. In May 1962, instructions were issued by three ministers of the Republic to prohibit any repatriation outside the plan and to inform us that several officers and public officials rescued harkis. Georges Pompidou then decided to open the reception. The lack of repatriation measures has also affected one million blackfoot people, who have also been the victims of massacres, particularly in Oran. As the rapporteur has said, the purpose of this bill is to recognize and redress a specific damage related to the unworthy reception of the Republic on its hexagonal soil, in camps and forest hamlets. Finally, the reprisals, which were also mentioned, were not made by France but mainly by last-minute rallies. The Evian agreements provided that the Algerian side should guarantee the security, rights and freedoms of persons residing in its territory, no one being subject to police or judicial action, disciplinary sanctions or any discrimination on the grounds of opinions expressed during the events in Algeria. I do not believe that one can reduce the role of one or another to one dimension – so there was not one part of Algeria, but several. History is complex. With this bill, which is a piece of recognition and reparation, we do not intend to write history. I also express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u136	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u137	Don't be mistaken! This is not a matter of trying General de Gaulle's policy. The Member who is speaking to you at the moment is not necessarily the one who is most in favour of such a challenge. If we do not make history, we can nevertheless account for it. This amendment contains only objective criteria. An order was issued to limit repatriation. It is not an insult to history and the harkis to say so and to recognize that, as a result of this commitment under the Evian Accords, some people have been massacred. Moreover, we do not say that the latter have been massacred by France, which has no responsibility in this regard. His responsibility relates to the order given. The massacre, by the Algerian side, is a consequence – one could of course under-amend to provide all the necessary clarifications. Note, Madam rapporteur, the following contradiction: you will present us with an amendment which, as part of the Day of Tribute to the Harkis on 25 September, provides for the celebration of the soldiers who disobeyed. But to what order? In Article 1, you refuse to recognize that an order has been issued. It is strange to point out in the law that soldiers disobeyed when, in the same law, it is not recognized that an order had been given. If we want to respect your logic in the most correct way, we must say that an order has been given, that it has had consequences, that France is not blind and that some have disobeyed that order. You will not escape a form of debate because, when we look at such a text, we approach history, we touch on the political decisions that have marked it. The question of responsibility is being removed from this bill on the pretext that France should not be called into question with regard to the massacres. However, there is no question of questioning her on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u138	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u139	It aims to include in the scope of the recognition of this bill the beneficiaries of harkis who have suffered a loss of chance due to living conditions and the lack of schooling. We cannot simply mention the conditions of reception, we must really describe the damage, which is much wider. The committee set up will have to take this into account, which will of course have consequences for financial compensation but also for the recognition of this damage. The extension of the recognition of France's fault to the second generation, passed through camps, forest hamlets and homes, and victimized by the State's failure to fulfil its duty of schooling for children, would constitute an unprecedented step forward, which the President of the Republic himself called for in his speech of 20 September. I quote: "On this subject, I will be clear: it is a matter of repairing first for the first generation and of being able to upgrade the allowances for veterans and their widows, it is a duty. Why? Because, too, they were treated less well than others, and that is an established fact. Secondly, it is a matter of gathering testimony and repairing for the second generation who had to live in the camps, who had to live in the forest hamlets or in the homes in unworthy living conditions and the lack of access to school for the children. The amendment would bring your text into line with those words spoken before the harkis and their descendants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u141	I assure you: loss of chance is one of the prejudices covered by the text. When we talk about harkis, we include not only their wives, but also their children. They have not been forgotten and the physical or immaterial harm they have suffered is part of the scope of the bill. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u143	The fault of the State, which is indisputable and now well documented, consists in the lasting and organized relegation of returnees from Algeria, formerly of civil status under local law, and members of their families, to centres and structures where living conditions were precarious and degrading, characterized by the absence of public services, including education. The option taken is based on the finding that, in the present case, the fault of the State is such as to characterize the compensable damages, which the victim does not have to prove. Any person who has stayed in the structures in question shall be deemed to have suffered such damage of any kind, moral or material, which shall be entitled to compensation. This is a considerable simplification. We wanted to draw up the simplest possible provisions, applicable as easily and as quickly as possible for each party. The prejudices that you have mentioned are, of course, part of the scope of the text. However, personal harm cannot be extended to rightholders who have not passed through such structures; the compensation is reserved for those who have stayed there, regardless of the length of their stay – we have not set any limit, minimum or maximum. Every person passing through these camps – combatant, wife or child – will be compensated for this specific and comprehensive harm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u144	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u145	Madam Deputy Minister, you are talking about the camps and other unworthy reception facilities. In commenting on Article 1, I asked whether the citadels of Doullens and Amiens would be part of the structures concerned, which would give rise to recognition of the damage thus to reparation. The impact study accompanying the bill mentions only the reception structures of Bias in the Lot-et-Garonne, Bourg-Lastic in the Puy-de-Dôme, the Rye in the Vienne, Larzac in the Aveyron, Saint-Maurice-l'Ardoise in the Gard and Rivesaltes in the Pyrénées-Orientales. The 2018 Decree is also limited to this list. In your mind, is this text intended to extend the scope of the repair beyond these sites, or will the persons who have stayed in the structures that are not mentioned in the impact assessment not be recognized or compensated?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u146	Good question, very precise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u147	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u148	The issue is important from the point of view of legism. Article 2 speaks of reparation for "all the harms of all kinds".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u149	Of all kinds!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u150	It's a very vague formulation. You say it's covered by the text, but it depends on the interpretation that will be made of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u151	We don't interpret!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u152	It is much more secure to list the prejudices, to show the intention of the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u153	It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u154	No, because as with the camps – amendments have been tabled to this effect – we can very well draw up a list and indicate that it is possible to complete it. Speaking of unworthy conditions, you aim at how people have been welcomed and treated; I propose, in the amendment, to take into account the long-term impact that this reception has had on the personal development of children. One may have stayed in a camp for three years, in poor conditions – that is the perimeter of the law – but then be marked to the point of having, for twenty years, psychological troubles and not being able to find work. This injury may be considered to be included in "all damage of any kind", but it is not directly related to reception; He's doing it. It is better to include in the law the need to recognize loss of chance. It is important that children, i.e. the second generation, appear clearly from article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u156	Mr Ruffin, I understand your question because I am myself from Montpellier, a city with four camps that are not concerned, at the moment I am talking to you, with this law of recognition and reparation. Indeed, the hearings showed that the persons who stayed in the camps and forest hamlets mentioned in the impact assessment were under social supervision; their children did not go to school; there were no doctors, no electricity or heating; families were dispossessed of their social benefits and allowances. It is not worthy of France to have deprived them of their liberty. Even if I consider that my friends from Montpellier have also suffered damage, they are not comparable. Indeed, even though these people went through camps and slums, they were not in lack of freedom – heard in a global way. The decree does draw up a list of camps and hamlets for foresting, but we have adopted an amendment in committee which allows the committee to extend it according to the testimony of harkis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u157	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u158	I have nothing to add to the rapporteur's very complete explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u159	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u160	It goes in the same direction as some other amendments that have already been defended. However, I realize that its drafting is imprecise and could lead to a problem of interpretation. Therefore, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u162	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u163	It is an amendment of clarification: I wish to introduce the concept of damage into the text, which I believe is essential in that it allows for legal liability to be incurred in order to result in compensation or reparation. It seems to me important to include it in article 1, paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u164	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u165	The purpose of this bill is not to serve as a basis for future litigation, but rather to propose a remedy to the harkis and their descendants in order to avoid the lengthy and painful process of administrative litigation. This would be particularly tedious since the burden of proof would rest on the plaintiffs: the damage suffered would be difficult to objectivate more than 60 years after the facts and the success of the case would not be guaranteed. Of course, no reparation will be able to compensate for the experience of the harkie families, but it is indeed a reparation and not a compensation. I therefore believe that the reference to "damage", far from clarifying the text, would cast doubt on its objectives and undermine the intelligibility of the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u167	This is a lump sum compensation based on a presumption of injury. Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u168	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u169	Madam rapporteur, I thank you for clarifying one essential point: you have just told all the harkis in Picardie, and probably many harkis in the North, that they will not be entitled to the reparation and recognition of the nation for the unworthy welcome France had given them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u170	Those who have been deprived of their liberty are entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u171	The text insists on the unworthy conditions, and that is the subject of our debates; However, recognition and reparation are conditional on deprivation of liberty. According to your reasoning, therefore, it is only the worst of the worst that opens up the right to recognition and reparation! I have come in a spirit of consensus, and I am still looking for it. But I see a contradiction in saying that France will be generous, that it will open its arms and recognize all the harkis, and then announce a petty and riquiquical measure, which excludes many people on the grounds that they do not meet the sum of the conditions laid down in the text. If we really want to do something about reparation and recognition, we have to do it in a much broader and much more generous way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u172	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u173	Madam rapporteur, it cannot be said that reparation is solely linked to deprivation of liberty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u174	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u175	That's impossible. The minister delegate found me a little hard in the debate, but we cannot ignore the memorial debates that are taking place outside these walls. When dealing with a subject, it must be done seriously. For Republicans, things are clear: we must not sort out situations. If, according to this text, some harkis can be compensated because they have passed through a camp, and others not because they have not passed, we will not vote for it. Know it! Yet we want to vote on it and we call on you to avoid this inequality. You can't fix an injustice by creating another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u176	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u177	It aims to strengthen article 1 by replacing, in order to qualify reception conditions, the term "insecure", which is considered somewhat weak in the light of the reality experienced by the victims, with that of "inhumane". I add that this term appeared in François Hollande's speech of September 25, 2016: " [...] I recognize the responsibility of the French governments in abandoning" – it is well that we have enshrined this term in the bill – "harkis, massacres of those left in Algeria, and inhuman reception conditions for families transferred to the camps in France".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u179	This is an amendment that we have rejected in committee. I note that inhumanity usually refers to the concentrationary system of the Second World War, and despite the parallels sometimes heard here or there with the situation of the harkis, I believe that comparison is not right. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u181	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u182	Mrs Pires Beaune, has the amendment been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u183	No, I am not going to withdraw it because I am not the author and my colleague is not here. But I still think that the definition of the term "inhumane" must make it possible to find commonalities with what has been experienced by the harkis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u184	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u185	It is basically the same debate, and I will go back to the very strong words you spoke earlier, Madam rapporteur, because that will inform the rest of the discussion. You recalled that some had been deprived of liberty and others had not, but that freedom went hand in hand with areas of poverty. And you're right. But when you go into detail, you explain that the places of accommodation, which you yourself describe as areas of misery, will not open up the right to reparation! I am a native of Béziers, I am thinking in particular of the harki district in Saint-Pons-de-Thomières, relegated to the outside of the city, where the dropout rate was extremely high and where people who did not even speak French stayed for years. And all these people wouldn't be entitled to compensation? The title of the bill mentions, however, that it is recognition "of the harkis", article 1, paragraph 2, stating that the nation "recognizes its responsibility for the indignity of the conditions of reception... of the repatriated... and members of their families, housed in certain structures where they have been subjected to particularly precarious living conditions and to deprivation and infringement of individual freedoms...". From then on, I am offended because I had not understood that the scope of reparation was limited to deprivation of liberty; On the contrary, I thought that the text provided for an ad hoc committee to examine the cases pointed out by Mr Ruffin, particularly in Amiens but also in many other places in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u186	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u187	I hope that I am wrong and that there will be the possibility. The term "so" implies that the State will not only provide compensation for the harm suffered by those who have been deprived of their liberty but also by those who have lived in structures that offer them particularly precarious living conditions. Otherwise, the title of the text should be amended to make it clear that reparation was limited to those who had passed through areas of deprivation of liberty and not the others. It's really not right! Let's stop squealing when we talk about a few tens of thousands of our fellow citizens! Will we find ourselves, after the great speech of the President of the Republic, having to correct it to make it clear that reparation will only benefit the harkis deprived of liberty and not the others, even if you recognize that they were relegated to areas of misery? Is it over for them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u188	It's a memorial job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u189	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u190	First of all, I would like to thank the Government for the recognition and reparation that we owe to the families of harkis, before extending the subject somewhat. Indeed, you have spoken, Madam Minister Delegate, of places of memory, and I believe, faithful to Pierre Nora, that it is extremely important to continue to preserve the memory through these places of deprivation of liberty, of places, let us dare say it even if the term is absolutely terrible, of parking and of erasure of the social life of the harkis. Thank you for the work done by ONACVG in Saône-et-Loire, around the hamlet of Roussillon-en-Morvan. It is extremely important to keep the memory of the hamlets of forest, these places so special where there was a denial of the social life of the families. The 2018 Ceaux report encourages us to work in this direction. I know that you are sensitive to it and that you are carrying out this essential memory work. That is why I fully understand the content and the requirement of this text in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u191	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u192	I'll try to reassure you, Mr. Ruffin. You have told me about people who are leaving in the North and who, as such, would be excluded from the scope of the text; But when they arrived in France, they had to be in a transit camp or in a forested hamlet, so they too would be entitled to compensation. There is a memorial work and a collection of the floor to be carried out, which will allow the new national commission for the recognition and reparation of the harm suffered by the harkis to seize, if necessary, the ONACVG, even for particular cases – I am thinking of Mr Serge Carel, who does not fall within the scope of reparation but who, in view of his testimony during our hearings, could be entitled to compensation paid by the solidarity fund, if the ONACVG so decided, knowing that compensation is not a reparation. Watching the history of the harkis implies understanding their entire history. In the camps that were called open, or in urban cities like the one in which I was born, there were not just harkis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u193	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u194	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... there were also families of returnees, members of the gypsy community, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian emigrants. The legislation that we are debating today concerns the harkis and aims to provide reparation to those who have been deprived of their liberty, that is, those who have been locked up in camps behind barbed wires. I knew the conditions of the open camps: they were difficult but they were not the same as those of the camps closed by barbed wire.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u195	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u196	It is not a question of replacing the word "insecure" but of adding the words "and unworthy". You are going to reply to me, Madam rapporteur, that "indignity" is already mentioned in paragraph 2, but this clarification could only reinforce the impact of this text by stressing that the reception of the harkis in the camps clearly did not match their commitment alongside our soldiers. Their living conditions, it has been repeated, were absolutely deplorable: unhealthy housing, occupation of tents by several families, outdoor toilets without running water, lack of electricity, collective showers, absence of a doctor, etc. The list of difficulties and humiliations is endless: to specify that "they have been subjected to particularly precarious and unworthy living conditions" is therefore fully justified. And then again, I say that it is essential to recognize the right to a dignified burial for those who died in those camps. We really need to insist on this because it is a particularly important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u197	We're working on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u199	The amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u201	I also think that he is satisfied because indignity results from precariousness and deprivation of liberty. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] As far as burials are concerned, I agree with you, Madam Member: we must continue this work of identification. My office worked yesterday with elected representatives of Saint-Maurice-l'Ardoise, where a camp was located, to make it a place of memory, especially around the graves of children who died there. This work, which the Ministry has begun and which it pursues with the firm will to achieve, does not, however, fall within the legislative level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u202	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u203	Thank you for your answer, Madam Minister, but I would like to point out that the absence of burial is a matter of indignity and not of precariousness. That is why I insist that this notion should also be included in this part of the text. I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u204	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u205	Madam rapporteur, I would like to remind you that the citadel of Doullens, which was turned into a prison for nobles and then into a prison for women, was closed in 1959 because it was considered unworthy of receiving prisoners because of its unsanitaryness and excess moisture. And when the returnees arrived, that's where they were put! It was to last only three months, but it will have lasted three years! Three years in a place deemed too unsanitary to be a prison. And you tell us that years in this place will not give rise to any reparations or compensation. The argument that these people are necessarily passed through the forest hamlets is a subterfuge, unless the repair only concerns this category. Not all harkis have stayed in these hamlets and, above all, the amount of compensation will be calculated on the basis of the number of years spent in the camps that the Government has retained. This means that, for the harkis of Picardie, the repair will be ridiculous, if not null. This is not acceptable, as you say that France will show generosity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u206	It's not generosity, it's reparation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u207	...to restrict the repair to those who have spent years in forested hamlets. You tell us, Madam rapporteur, that there will be special cases that will be examined: no, twice no, that is not right! I hope that common sense will prevail and that the Government will extend the scheme significantly to places other than the forest hamlets and the few camps that have now been retained – even though that is where people have been most deprived of their liberty; If that was not the case, I hope the Senate right will do the job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u208	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u209	Ms. Ménard, I interviewed the Director of ONACVG and, of course, asked her a question about the burials, since I too am affected by the subject: she assured me that there was assistance that the Agency could provide so that these deceased people could have a grave like everyone else and thus regain their dignity. It is true that our harki friends often ignore it and that is why I wanted to clarify it; they can ask the ONACVG for exceptional assistance for a burial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u210	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u211	Mr Ruffin, I hear what you are saying, but we must show humility – I do not say it for you but for me – because history is not so simple. Nothing is simple, the identification of places is not complete, there is what we call grey areas, that is to say things that we do not know well yet, sixty years later. That is why I gave an opinion in favour of the committee's amendment to offer the national commission for the recognition and reparation of the harm suffered by the harkis the possibility of increasing and enriching the list of places where the reception would have been particularly unworthy and contrary to Republican promises as a result of the deprivation of liberty, guardianship, spoliations and the absence of any public health or school services. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I do not know the place you are talking about in Picardie, but this committee will hear the people and will be able to judge whether the list should be extended, which is not frozen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-18-O1065.u212	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill on recognition of the nation and compensation for harm suffered by harkis, returnees and their families. The meeting is adjourned.
