ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u1	The next item is the debate on the impact of the crisis on youth and urgent action. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u2	On March 16, all over France, high school students, students and precarious young people gathered together. They were beating the floor so as not to be a generation sacrificed on the altar of the pandemic crisis. Everywhere in France, at the pace of confinements, restrictions and curfews, young people have organized themselves spontaneously – and continue to do so – in solidarity and mutual aid actions. Made largely invisible last year, the dramatic impact of the health crisis on young people is now the subject of programmes, reports and testimonies that highlight the particularly challenging living conditions of our young people. This bitter observation is now the subject of mixed diagnoses, which were formulated in the excellent report of the commission of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the crisis of the covid-19 on children and youth, published last December. I welcome the rigour and breadth of this report; He rightly shows that, in many respects, young people were – as is often the case – the great forgotten of erratic and disorderly management of the pandemic crisis by the public authorities, which amplified the ills of the health crisis. It was not until October, long after the spread of the virus in our country began, that the President of the Republic should sum up this situation into a formula which is also a confession of failure: "it is not easy to be 20 years old in 2020. And there is no indication that 2021 will take place under better auspices – that is the least we can say. The somewhat ethereal announcement of a new confinement in many departments is not to reassure us on this point... As the report of the commission of inquiry points out, the multiplication of government announcements, the disorder of successive rumours and the particularly anxious communication that has saturated the media and social networks have not been without impact on our young people: all this has contributed greatly to their psychological distress. Currently, nearly one in two young people express concern about their mental health. In addition, a report of concern from Public Health France indicates that more than 30% of 18-24 year olds are in depressive condition, depending on the scale of assessment of anxiety and depression HAD. The resulting isolation of the first confinement, the virtual disappearance of the places of sociability allowing young people to build themselves and gradually balance themselves, combined with a deleterious feeling of uncertainty in the face of a future that is difficult to draw and which, for the moment, seems to be obstructed. Based on the analysis of Dr. Hélène Romano, a doctor in clinical psychology, the report of the commission of inquiry points out that "Containment, debunking and then re-defining and finally reducing it without a precise horizon are also traumatic events for children and even for some adults, because the feeling of safety and protection disappears. Time control is a highly political issue. To be able to project and understand his future is for the individual, and especially for young people, to ensure a certain psychological security. To this psychic distress, there is still a growing socio-economic distress. Of course, it did not start with the pandemic crisis, but the crisis has further amplified it, as is the case with all distress and inequality. Between 2002 and 2018, there had already been a dramatic increase in the rate of poverty among young people – more than 50%; the health crisis, in doing itself social and economic, still darkens this black picture. The figures are overwhelming: almost 30 per cent of young people have given up care because of lack of resources; Almost 20% are unemployed, while another 700000 will soon enter a saturated labour market; Almost one in six young people dropped out of school as a result of the crisis. This precarious situation now affects both students, young people in training and alternance, and those who are unemployed, even if the proportions vary according to the social environment. These figures should require strong and appropriate proposals. However, in the face of the unprecedented crisis – health, social and even existential – that our young people are going through, the Government has responded only by means of measures, pis-allers and unceasing DIY. While the figure of 4.7 billion has been advanced in relation to the youth component of the recovery plan – the famous "1 young person, 1 solution", is more revealing of the individualization of the answers than of a global project that will bring about the future – we quickly break down when we look at it more closely. In fact, almost half of the resources consist of direct and indirect support for employers, particularly for alternance, which, according to the trade union of vocational lycées, is only an illusion and a boon, more often synonymous with cheap labour than with real apprenticeship. For the rest, these are very old recipes allowing at most to soften certain ills, but in no way to treat the causes lastingly: reinforced accompaniments, 100,000 additional civic services and 110,000 assisted jobs. Students find it difficult to find additional jobs, while nearly one in two young people is forced to work to ensure that their studies are properly funded. To take only this example, the almost total closure of the catering sector deprives young people of student jobs and any additional income. Admittedly, one-off aid has been put in place, such as this €150 block generously distributed in December. I do not ignore the importance that the latter has represented for many young people: in my permanence, a young first-year student, stage 6 fellow and housed in a university residence, told me that with her weekly budget of 20 euros to feed herself, 150 euros represented seven weeks of meals. She asked me if this aid would be renewed, but I could not give her a clear answer. I will not mention the three consultations with a psychologist offered to students but inaccessible in the immediate absence of psychologists, nor the incomprehensible closure of universities, while the preparatory classes accommodate more than forty students per class and hybrid teaching, as in high school, would be possible. The Government's plans, drawn from the comet of ministries, do not respond to the urgent needs of the moment and do not further help our young people to project themselves into the future. The verticality of a power, which is cynically the song of decentralization, social dialogue and horizontality, is also denounced by the aforementioned parliamentary report: "to give the word [to young people] and, more than speaking, to give them the opportunity to co-build responses with the public authorities is essential for this generation that we are already beginning to call the "confined generation". However, it would be sufficient to listen to young people and to read the main demands of their trade unions or associations to measure the seriousness of the latter. Indeed, while security is a recurring theme in the public debate, much less is the need to secure the economic, social and psychological conditions of young people. Thus, rather than a kyriella of scattered aid – almost 23% of young people say they do not have access to it – the creation of an income of autonomy for all must enable our young people to project themselves more serenely in the future. Ms Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, said she was in favour of it; She'll be here any minute. While waiting for such a mechanism – which already exists in our Danish neighbours – immediate measures, especially for students, could be taken: the increase of scholarships on social criteria, the delivery of meals for those who are far from the places of academic restoration, the free of charge of masks in the faculties and transports, and even the establishment of a student loan at zero rate under conditions, as suggested by a student who wrote to us, and also – of course – the promised reopening of universities. On the youth employment front, a decisive battle, at least as important as the one against the virus, must be waged: the creation of 300,000 young jobs, just under half the number of young people who are entering the labour market, as part of a real stimulus plan to help public investment in fields such as ecology or education – we have promoted it a thousand times. This would have the merit of allowing young people to acquire a status and income, down from uberization as the only horizon. Of course we should mention the RSA young people, the income of active solidarity, for all those who cannot integrate employment, simply because they do not find it. But I don't want to go into too much detail on these measures – it would be contradictory to the co-construction that young people want. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Rather than the distressed and compassionate mines that we can all bear in the face of the situation, it is a Marshall plan for youth, co-built with it, which society needs. We are far from it: the half-measures of the Government and its day-to-day management, from imprecisions to closures, do not give our youth a coherent overall vision over the medium term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u3	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u4	Since the beginning of the health crisis, an additional 1 million people have turned into poverty, and young people come day after day to increase the ranks of these new poor. For students, the dehumanization of distance courses adds to distress, while they have to deal with university health services that are underprivileged. The chain of food banks for young people and students continues to grow, and the Government's promises follow but are still not being kept. As it worsened, the crisis has only brought to light a precarious student situation that has been present for far too long. The average budget per student has been falling steadily for ten years, and this year it falls below the 10000 euro threshold. 20 per cent of students live below the poverty line, and 46 per cent usually work alongside their studies. Malnutrition, psychological distress, dropping out of school: the health crisis will undoubtedly have long-term effects on young people. At the outset, I would like to ask the Government to listen to them and to consider them, rather than to accompany a hate movement that has recently spread against a student union and its president, who, however, act in favour of young people. At the heart of the precariousness of young people, poor housing holds a prominent place. Housing is a student's first item of expenditure: it accounts for 69% of its budget. While student rents continue to rise, the Government is imposing a break-in reform of APLs – personalized housing subsidies. In January, the calculation of the APLs was changed: they are now calculated in real time, i.e. based no longer on the income of the penultimate year, but on that of the last twelve months, with a quarterly update. Many young people, students or on alternance contracts, are penalized by this method of calculation. This reform is not just an accounting adjustment: it affects the real, the lives of thousands of young people who struggle to make ends meet. The petition launched by one of them, Clementine Béguier, gathered eloquent testimony that suggests the great precariousness in which this reform will leave some young people. She also wishes to be able to present this petition to Mrs Emmanuelle Wargon, Deputy Minister for Housing, and I hope that you will be able, Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, to plead in her favour. Some young people have lost a large part – if not all – of their help, others have even had to leave their homes. With this reform, you are making savings on the backs of the poorest and most vulnerable. In its annual report on the state of mal-housing in France, the Fondation Abbé Pierre denounces the incessant attacks that you have been carrying out since the beginning of the quinquennium against APLs: a cut of 5 euros per month in 2017, regular unindexed against inflation since 2018, reduction of the solidarity rent, abolition of the APL accession. Since 2017, the Government has saved €10 billion on APLs. The Communist group and many students demand the withdrawal of the reform and the upgrading of the APLs for all the beneficiaries. The improvement of the condition of young people and students also depends on the development of a suitable housing offer. The number of accommodation accessible to students remains still lower than needs, especially in the Paris region, especially as the student population grows faster than the CROUS park, the regional centres of academic and academic works. The percentage of scholarship students receiving social housing is not increasing: between 2013 and 2017, only 40,000 student housing units were built. The Government had decided to launch a new five-year plan of 600,000 student housing, but in view of the needs revealed by the crisis, it was essential to complete the plan as soon as possible and to continue this effort in the long term. This is the meaning of one of the proposals put forward by my colleague Marie-George Buffet following the work of the Committee of Inquiry on Children and Youth in the face of Covid-19, of which she was the rapporteur. We have also included this measure in the proposed law on housing and solidarity with students, which aims to match the number of places in university housing with the number of student fellows, thereby ensuring better access to higher education. There is an urgent need for a €1.5 billion plan to finance an immediate increase in grants and housing aid. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Sylvie Tolmont also applauds]] We ask you to be up to date, to consider the young people and to listen to them humbly, because they have serious demands and demands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u5	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u6	The unprecedented health, economic and social crisis in our country affects all our citizens, all walks of life and all generations. While young people are relatively and fortunately preserved from the serious forms of the virus, its indirect consequences nevertheless have a serious impact on both mental and physical health. "This virus robs me of my youth," says Étienne, 20 years old. "This virus prevents me from living," Nina, 13, tells us. At the age when one is building one's future, where the momentum of projects, the taste of travel and the thirst for encounters are at their height, the retreat on oneself and the isolation imposed for a year have taken over in the daily lives of young people, not without causing significant damage. In terms of mental health, the loss of freedom of movement, confinement or fear of contamination are stressors that have led to a sharp increase in anxiety and depressive disorders and addictions in the population as a whole, but even more so in our young and very young people. The hospital Necker-Enfants maladies, in Paris, recorded twice as many suicide attempts among minors under the age of 15 in 2020 as the previous year. In the area of physical health, containment has increased the use of screens, while leading to a decrease in sports practice and a change in eating behaviour. Too much and moral at zero: the health of young people must be taken into consideration. There is also a worrying phenomenon of increasing insecurity and inequality. We were all able to witness food aid operations organized within universities – some of us even participated. Several major measures have been taken by the Government. I am thinking of the allocation of 200 euros for students who have lost their jobs, the aid for the fellows, the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", the resumption of the teachings in presential at 20% of the time, the meals at 1 euro in the CROUS, the fight against menstrual precariousness or the setting up of psychological accompanying cheques. We have given young people, as well as all our fellow citizens, substantial and necessary support so that they can hold on and look to the future. Today, we all hope for the end of this crisis. As vaccination progresses, we can see a way out. The youth of our country must be able to quickly regain the joy of living that characterizes it: it will be done by re-creating social ties, by reconnecting with their loved ones, friends and loves, by regaining the taste of projects, parties, student evenings and nights in discotheque. Madam Secretary of State, 87% of young people are approaching this still uncertain future and believe that it will be up to them to pay the debt that our society has incurred during this unprecedented crisis. More than one in two young people also claim to be unfairly accused of being responsible for the transmission of the virus. It is a considerable weight that we place on their shoulders. The sacrifices already made by youth must not be darkened by false accusations, which risk dividing generations, while our efforts must focus on solidarity and national unity in order to protect each other and collectively defeat the epidemic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] While we are all victims of this crisis, the vast majority of young people believe that their generation is being sacrificed. This feeling is shared by 74% of French people, who think it's very sad to be 20 in the 2020s. However, this view declines with age, as less than half of those over 65 share this view of youth. These numbers must alert us. How can we avoid this clash of generations, how can we overcome the divisions by giving young people perspectives, confidence and optimism? How can we better listen to the words of young people tomorrow? How can we finally ensure that the vulnerabilities revealed by the crisis are taken into account and taken into account in the long term? Madam Secretary of State, what message of hope can we deliver to our youth today?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u7	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u8	For the past year, we have been hearing about the ill-being of our youth on many subjects. Yes, being between the ages of 16 and 25 in the midst of a health crisis and in the midst of an economic crisis is difficult. Yes, there are many problems. I wanted to warn you, Madam Secretary of State, about the young people who have chosen vocational training in apprenticeships, particularly in the hospitality-restaurant and tourism sectors, which have been severely affected by administrative closures. For the past year, these young people, for whom professional practice is an integral part of training and diploma, have not been able to go to their place of work or internship. For these young people of all levels, the future is uncertain. Their devalued diploma will be little recognized by the profession, since they will have obtained it after a practice in an almost non-existent company when it is the very essence of their profession. What measures have you envisaged so that they can, at some point, catch up with the period they should have spent in today's closed establishments in order to acquire the know-how necessary for their profession and for their knowledge of the business world? I am also very concerned about the future of our young people in general. Their situation on the labour market is alarming, the unemployment rate of 16-25 year olds is twice as high as that of the general population. While finding a job after graduation from university is now a real journey for the fighter, let's not forget that almost 500,000 young people would like to sign an apprenticeship contract. The recovery plan certainly has a young component, appreciated by businesses, but beyond the financial aid granted, some are now unable to hire. For many of them, the priority is the retention of their employees in employment, not the use of apprentices. All this raises concerns about the sustainability of some of our CFAs – apprentice training centres – especially small CFAs in rural areas. What responses will the Government provide to the essential hotel and catering and tourism sectors, which are experiencing a particularly difficult year and for which learning is at the very heart of training? Whole sectors of our economy are affected; They will be sustainable and we must accompany them. Universities have suffered, and so have our students. The baccalaureate in 2020 will have little value, with a success rate of around 95%. The first year of graduate education is complicated. The social link is difficult to establish as students arrive in large schools, in large universities, and are alone in their university chamber. Why did you close university restaurants? Why did you close the libraries? Why did you close the work rooms? Today, some students are inflating the lines of wait of the Restos du coeur, because many no longer have the student job – or it has been reduced to almost nothing – that sometimes constituted the bulk of their income. I believe in our youth. Young people need to be encouraged, they need to be supported. Youth is our future, it is the future of our country. Let us give them every chance to build and flourish, let us listen to them and above all, let us hear them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u9	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u10	On behalf of all my colleagues in the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, I would like first of all to send a message of empathy to the young people of France, because this year has been very difficult, sometimes to the point of severe suffering. I also convey to them a message of respect, because the vast majority of young people behave in a civic and responsible manner, but also a message of admiration, because many commit themselves to the most vulnerable in marauds, to support their colleagues or to do the shopping of the old village. Beyond these messages, I want to tell you, Madam Secretary of State, the confidence we have in the Dem Group in your action. I am not just talking about the many schemes put in place: "1 young person, 1 solution", the 100,000 additional places in civic service, meals at 1 euro, shrink checks, the extended youth guarantee, concerted actions with the world of higher education, learning – which has never been as well, whether in volume or in view of its popularity among young people. Our trust also concerns your action, your action on the ground, because we know your commitment, and we know the energy you are deploying to listen to a young person who needs it. Within a few minutes, and to talk about solutions, I would like to ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, what we Members of Parliament can do in practice, beyond our traditional role of passing the law and monitoring the action of the Government. I'd like to suggest two leads. The first concerns civic service. You have heard the announcements regarding the opening of 100,000 additional places for the civic service. The civic service is very transpassionate: imagined by civil society, launched during the quinquennium of Mr Sarkozy, developed during that of Mr Hollande, it takes its full development with 100,000 additional posts during the current quinquennium. After seven years of volunteering in a pioneering civic service association – the very beautiful Unis-Cité association – I think it is time for national representation to consider civic service not only as a mechanism for young people, but also as a mechanism that, through the involvement of young people, allows us to address social issues. Whether it's dependency, the priority neighbourhoods of city politics or healthy sport, you have to count on the energy of these young people, how they can get involved, move mountains and do things that you and I have a hard time doing. I believe that, as a national representation, we will have succeeded in our relationship to civic service on the day we consider it a tool, a lever of action to help us achieve our public policies. In concrete terms, this means that in the budget discussion we could set out major national civic service programmes, and look at how and with what objectives they can become part of the solution. Not only will young people then embark on a journey that will be useful to them, but they will also be recognized for what they can do for others and for the society in which they invest. Second proposal: I would like to share more with us the actions we take in our constituencies, in the field, whether they are personal or at the initiative of groups. I am thinking of an experiment that we are conducting in the Dem Group. Named "young people towards employment", it is based on a fairly simple principle, which many of you know, of looking for women and men in business who are committed to accompanying two to three young people towards employment – with the aim of obtaining a CDI or CDD of more than six months. The aim is to carry out traditional actions to prepare for recruitment interviews, but also to open up their networks, to share company codes. This is all the more important when young people do not have access to these codes in their family or direct environment. This program, I tested in my constituency, with ten coaches and thirty young people, and it worked so well that we decided to multiply by ten, with 100 coaches for 300 young people. We've already recruited fifty-one, just with the first call. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac also applauds]] I am talking about it because whatever political edge we represent, many citizens are ready to commit to youth, and we can be the catalyst for this citizen engagement. We are ready to share with all of you these elements – the training kits, the conventions we have signed with local missions and all other tools. In any case, it is a message of action that I would like to pass, because each of us has a small part of the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u11	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u12	It was hard to be 20 years old in 2020, to repeat the words of the President of the Republic; Unfortunately, the same is true in 2021. Indeed, as this crisis plunges into poverty an additional one million French people, who will come in addition to the more than 9 million people already living below the poverty line, it is indeed our youth, deprived of prospects, who are the main victims of this crisis. The recent report of the Committee of Inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and young people, of which I was a member, highlighted its negative impact, whether on the living conditions or the learning conditions of our young people. The press and the media have also echoed this suffering by showing the terrible images of young people in distress tailing for food. In the Sarthe, my department, more than half of the beneficiaries of food aid distributed by the Restos du coeur are now less than 25 years old. Time is running out and our youth despaired, as revealed by an IPSOS poll published last January, some of which I give you: two out of three young people believe that the current crisis related to covid-19 will have a negative impact on their own mental health; 40% of young people under 25 years of age report a generalized anxiety disorder; slightly more than one in five young people under 25 years of age reported symptoms of moderately severe or severe depressive disorders; Almost three out of ten young people thought it would be better if they died or thought of hurting themselves... This situation is unbearable and I think I can safely say that we all feel a serious sense of responsibility to this generation, to which we are already bequeathing heavy burdens and many debts. To this generation that is losing its most beautiful years and whose future is tarnishing from day to day, we cannot resist a cold silence. In response to this disaster, the Government has preferred to increase the number of communications operations on social networks or to organize simulacs of debate, without any stakes or contradictions, with influencers – who do not represent all our youth, so much so. While substantive measures have been taken, they have been disparate, late, restrictive, poorly calibrated and ultimately largely ineffective in responding to the urgency of the situation. While our group – following the commission of inquiry –, anti-poverty associations and trade union organizations begged him and called for the opening of the RSA to the 18-25 year olds, the Government has turned this measure aside, arguing that it would have a deterrent effect on the occupational integration of young people. Instead, he preferred to generalize the principle of the paid accompaniment of the young guarantee, which we had set up under the quinquennium of François Hollande, a scheme which has proved to be effective but which alone cannot respond to the structural problem of massification of the precarious situation of young people. Support for labour market integration may be a good thing, but it is only in the context of economic recovery, business opening and job creation, which is not yet possible at the present stage of the pandemic. On the other hand, it is not adapted to the situation of students. That is why my colleagues Boris Vallaud and Hervé Saulignac defended, on behalf of our group, the establishment of a "minimum youth", a mechanism aimed at opening up a basic income to 18 years of age automatically and unconditionally, as well as an allocation for the conduct of a training, entrepreneurship or mobility project. Even limited to the period of this health crisis, this advance has been rejected, thus undermining our ideals of justice, solidarity, and our hopes for emancipation for our youth. While some young people can count on the material support of their parents, others, no less deserving, are now left to drift, thus betraying the Government's concrete idea of equal opportunities, social elevator and republican merit. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs. Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] It is for all these reasons, and in favour of a nation that recognizes each of its young people the same right to personal and professional development, that we call for a national youth emergency plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u13	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u14	For a year now, the health crisis has seriously disrupted the lives of the French. The crisis management strategy has legitimately taken the lead in protecting from the virus, first, the most vulnerable, i.e. the elderly and those with co-morbidities. Moreover, health measures have been accompanied by measures to preserve our economy, and we can only welcome the strong commitment of the Government and, in particular, the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. However, one can wonder about the situation of our youth, who must live with the virus without vaccination, without partial unemployment, without solidarity funds. In fact, while the younger ones are little affected by the physical symptoms of covid-19, they suffer from economic precarization, isolation and a series of academic, emotional or psychological breakdowns. These effects were analysed in the report submitted in December 2020 by the National Assembly's committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth – youth, of which we cannot be the collateral victim of an unprecedented crisis. Since the beginning of the crisis, the number of RSA beneficiaries has increased by 7.5% and students have lost an average income of 274 euros. 33% reported financial difficulties during confinement. In the face of these difficulties, the Government has taken measures to combat student insecurity and to preserve the economic and social integration capacity of young people, notably through the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", the aid proposed to deal with food insecurity, which now allows all students to benefit from two meals a day for the price of 1 euro in university restaurants, the doubling of emergency aid for students, and finally the creation of 20,000 additional student jobs for tutoring missions. On this last point, I wish this plan to be sustainable, because it meets a real need of our young people beyond the current situation. We must, with lucidity, recognize that the distress of young people did not arise during confinement; This crisis has mainly made it possible to exacerbate and highlight it. So, in order to achieve our goals, to revive the activity of our companies, to defeat the virus, our best weapon is our vaccination strategy, deployed for several months throughout the national territory. Almost 10% of the French population has already received a first dose of vaccine, while the European Union has ordered more than 55 million doses for the second quarter of 2021. It is in this context that I would like to make a few points. France is expected to receive 8 million vaccines next April. This new vaccine has, from a logistical point of view, several significant advantages, including its simple method of storage and the fact that it is currently the only vaccine to have been effective with a single injection. We could, in order to give our young people a new perspective of the future, consider moving forward the vaccination of the 8 million 18-25 year olds in France, so that they can prepare for the September start-up, plan for employment or consider Erasmus. Preparing for the future means allowing students and young people to resume their activities and to consider reopening bars, restaurants, but also places of culture. For too long, we have left our young people in a passive situation. In parallel with the vaccination strategy, the Agir group proposed a massive investment in aeration solutions for buildings, amphitheatres, classrooms, cinemas, gymnasiums and other establishments receiving from the public, cementing our social life, especially when we are 20 years old. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Sylvain Waserman also applauds]] Because living with the virus is not living without our freedoms, but being able to face and think about the future, let us stop the blackboard and the anxiety talk. Collectively, let us assure our youth that we will not speak in the coming decades of a sacrificed generation, but of a liberated, innovative and resilient generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u15	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u16	The impact of the crisis on young people is well known, documented and, through its various measures, we can see that this issue is taken up by the Government. However, the purpose of our Parliament is, according to article 24 of the Constitution, to assess and monitor the action of the Government. Here, I wish to commend our colleagues in La France, who, through this crucial subject, allow us to question the Government and to inform it of the absent angles of its policies. I am sure that we will address the emotional distress of young people, the problems of the end of the month, the increasing educational inequalities and the difficult entry into the labour market. Of course, I support our colleagues who will address these issues. However, I would like to focus on a specific question: how can we reconcile the young people for whom the crisis will only be temporary and without real consequences for their professional future and the young people for whom the crisis risks being the source of long-term, professional, economic and irremediable difficulties? Madam Secretary of State, youth is a nice word, with many faces. Some of these faces are confident. They hold higher education diplomas, business schools, medical schools, engineering schools. Unemployment, for them, is almost a frictional unemployment of 4%, which corresponds to the duration of search between two jobs. They take advantage of telework to work in happy and sometimes exotic conditions. Of course, like all young people, they suffer from the closure of places of meeting and feasting, but this sadness is temporary. They do not fear the future and often work in companies that will go through the crisis without real problems or even get out of it strengthened. But there is another youth, which has a cramped face and blackened eyes of worried dark circles. It is the youth for whom unemployment is a daily reality and which amounts to 22.1% in November 2020. For this youth, the crisis will not be temporary; It will accentuate the inequalities that existed yesterday and that will strengthen tomorrow. Of course, measures have been taken by your government, such as doubling the beneficiaries of the youth guarantee and 1 euro meals, but the agonizing economy and the likely loss of potential French growth at the end of this crisis prevent me from hoping that these measures will suffice to calm the anxiety of this youth. The delay in entering the labour market, the difficulties to study in good conditions, the decrease in social interactions and professional encounters will be difficult to catch up with. The consequences of the crisis of the covid-19 will therefore materialize in a few years, when today's young people are likely to be tomorrow's adults of a contrasting country – those for whom the crisis was the beginning of impoverishment and those for whom the crisis of the covid-19 has been limited to two years of restricted social interaction. However, this inequality contains the risks of an economic, political and social fracturing of our country, which an abundance of literature already considers to be highly divided. It is therefore urgent for the Government to question the concrete means of creating the conditions for a link between this young person who is impoverished by the crisis and the one who is recovering from it. In its July 2020 note, the Conseil d'analyse économique refers to one solution: it proposes that young people who hold a licence who will enter an atone labour market, where it will be difficult to find a job, be offered a contract of employment by national education in order to ensure tutoring missions to students who have obtained a job during the various confinements. Since the publication of this note, school difficulties have worsened for some young people and the agonizing labour market is unfortunately still relevant. The establishment of such tutoring contracts would be possible at the start of the school year of 2021. The cost of this measure is estimated at EUR 3 billion. Such solutions could be replicated in large numbers, for example by enabling the State to promote the establishment of centres for listening and dialogue between young people in the world of work and young people in difficulty. The universal national service could be a means of raising young people's awareness of this topic during training courses in order to strengthen the cohesion of society of tomorrow at its source. Madam Secretary of State, are you thinking about ways to bring together the different young people in our country as part of your youth policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u17	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u18	A year ago, in the face of the sudden outbreak of the epidemic that took us short, the lack of hindsight and urgency prompted us to take priority care of our elders. They are the first victims of the virus and the most vulnerable: we had to protect our seniors. We have been right to make this choice, but we should no longer be in this emergency: the lasting nature of the crisis requires us to re-examine the strategy that led us to neglect a whole generation, which has the feeling of having been forgotten. In March 2020, young people were confined without discussion. They agreed to put their social life, their studies and their projects in brackets. A year later, in March 2021, many of them were in distress because they no longer had prospects. Far from being spared by this protein crisis, they suffer the consequences more harshly and violently than others. First of all, they are severely affected by the economic impact of the crisis. How could it be otherwise when, before the health crisis, half of the poor people in our country were under the age of 30? Student precariousness has increased considerably, as small jobs have disappeared and the family solidarity that made it possible to compensate for this loss is no longer enough. While they should devote themselves to the construction of their future, too many young people are reduced to seeking ways to feed themselves. Last Thursday, in the 13th arrondissement of Paris, I noticed this during the distribution of food baskets and hygienic packages to 550 students. These young people, who benefited from the voluntary help of an association, also came to seek a little human warmth... Despite this situation, the Government continues to oppose an RSA or a social emergency scheme for young people under 25 years of age, preferring one-off assistance and the guaranteed youth, the universalization of which, although announced, is slow to materialize. How many guarantees will be granted in 2021? Today, in the 13th arrondissement, 150,000 meals are distributed each month by this association alone. The most worrying factor in this worsening of the precarious situation of young people is that if nothing is done, it may last. Unfortunately, many young people will not get out of school and will drop out of school, and with them hope for a better future. Those who are entering the labour market today are discouraged by the few prospects it offers. The measures of the government plan "1 youth, 1 solution", although necessary, will not suffice. Beyond the economic crisis that hit them in full swing, even before the economic crisis, young people are the direct and indirect victims of the health crisis. The direct and indirect health consequences of the covid-19 epidemic should not be underestimated. They are related to long covid, but also to the decline in physical activity, facilitated by the sedentary nature of children and young people. In this regard, it remains incomprehensible that sport is not one of the possible exceptions to curfews. The consequences of the epidemic on the health of young people are also linked to the delay in the prevention and monitoring of treatment. We still lack data to measure the extent of this phenomenon, but we must anticipate it, otherwise we will soon face serious and irreversible effects on the health of young people. Finally, the mental health and ill-being of young people must be at the heart of our concerns. The past year has placed young people under house arrest. Repeated confinements, curfews, telework, distance education: the various health measures have deprived young people of social relations while they are vital. For many students, the return to vertical teaching, without interactions and through interposed screens, is experienced as the very negation of studies and the transmission of knowledge, which feeds on relationships between human beings. Returning to the presentation is the only possible response to their isolation and ill-being. Many psychiatrists sound alarms as depressions and drop-outs have become commonplace, while the means to support those who suffer are largely inadequate. The shrink checks won't be enough: it takes almost four months to get an appointment in a university psychological aid office in Paris – much time to sink... Colleagues, it is still time to avoid the emergence of a sacrificed generation, the very generation that will have to roll over the next ten years to re-establish the country and change our world with breath. Between the democratic crisis, the rise of populism, global warming, the environmental crisis and the health crisis, they will have to do miracles. It is up to us to propose to them something other than a vaccination passport, which they will receive only last, which will lead even more to exclude them. It is up to us to offer them more than just one-way solidarity. It's up to us to give them the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u19	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u20	This debate is important because, as you have said, youth is the treasure of our nation. For a year now, all young people in our country have been suffering the consequences of the health crisis, although with more or less violence, more or less difficulties. I agree with you, Mrs Rubin: the precariousness of young people existed before the epidemic and was exacerbated by the crisis. Unfortunately, this is still the case: any crisis accelerates the increase in inequality. It's a reality. One year after the outbreak of the crisis, we can observe its economic, social and psychological consequences for young people, but also its consequences for the precariousness and commitment of young people. It is with great seriousness and seriousness that the Government intends to respond to the needs of the various groups that make up youth, by providing appropriate responses to each of them. Ms. Rist pointed out that the measures adopted by the Government had taken several forms, first and foremost that of the plan "one young person, one solution", which had not stopped at the first announcement and which had been gradually completed to take account of the evolution of the crisis. Youth needs changed between March 2020, January 2021 and today. What have been the Government's responses since the beginning of the crisis? They were first of all economic in order to promote the integration of young people into the labour market. We supported companies that recruited in different ways, of course by encouraging apprenticeship and professionalisation contracts through the payment of an exceptional aid of 8000 euros for major apprentices and 5000 euros for minor apprentices, but also by stimulating the hiring of young people under 26 years of age by paying a bonus of 4000 euros. As you said, Mrs Valentin: supporting learning is essential in this particularly difficult time. In 2020, we exceeded the 550,000 apprenticeship contracts signed, an increase from the previous year despite the health crisis. You highlighted the very special situation of apprentices in the hotel and catering sectors. We share your concern. I recently met young people in apprenticeships in Angers and Île-de-France who are living cruelly not being able to take their practical training. In this regard, I would like to welcome the very good initiatives taken by some of them, mentioned by Sylvain Waserman and Aina Kuric, which demonstrate an admirable creativity. In order to practice their future profession, some apprentices are currently cooking for the Restos du coeur and charitable associations. This is certainly not the ideal for these professions of passion and excellence: it is essential that apprentices quickly return to the normal course of their training, which we all want. On this subject, I share the various concerns that have been expressed. At the economic level, the Government is committed to supporting meaningful trades. Of course, I am thinking of job paths skills and the 2000 job creations FONJEP – funds for cooperation of youth and popular education. As regards the health of young people, Mr Lambert said, the answers must obviously take two different forms. First of all, the device of the shrink check requires, in fact, a real accompaniment. The President of the Republic called for its massive deployment with the support of doctors. This deployment is still too slow, I grant you, honourable Member, but the mobilization is collective. Prior to this measure, because of the financial restraint, young people did not have access to psychological support. This is a reality to which we have given an initial answer. Young people also need to break their isolation, and we support associations that act in this direction, not through a medical approach, but through the listening they offer to students. The isolation of young people is a serious consequence of the health crisis. To answer this question, the support of the community is important, but the return to the university will obviously be decisive since it will allow the students to find their comrades. The Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Frédérique Vidal, is particularly active on this subject. It is committed to allowing students to continue to attend courses at the university, including in the 16 departments affected by the new health restrictions. As far as the consequences of the crisis in terms of insecurity are concerned, Mrs Tolmont, you are right: the universalisation of the youth guarantee is necessary. It is not the only response to the precarious situation of young people, but it will allow young people who are most in difficulty to regain a certain dignity and to benefit from the human accompaniment necessary to get out of it, which is in line with Mrs Faucillon's observation on the question of the APLs. The minister responsible for housing, Emmanuelle Wargon, has asked the National Fund for Family Allowances – CNAF – and the National Fund of the MSA – a social mutual farm – to consider a change in the status of the professionalization contract towards the status of the apprenticeship contract. The work is under way and we will ensure that the reform of the APLs and their calculation in real time do not lead to an impasse. In any case, Mrs Faucillon, please know that we will remain attentive to this matter. On the question of commitment, you are right, Mr. Waserman: we must create the momentum and energy of our young people by accompanying them in this dynamic. You mentioned the creation of an additional 100,000 civic service missions in 2020-2021. We have changed the rules of this system to allow students to take advantage of it more widely. Modulation of its weekly duration, allowing for a much more flexible organization, will allow students to leave their isolation and will give meaning to these missions. As Mrs Kuric calls us, it is a matter of helping this generation to take full part in the life of society and find its place. We are all aware that it is part of the solution. Civic service missions, which students can accomplish by receiving a grant or other assistance, are precisely part of this search for the common good and social utility for everyone. As for the consequences of the health crisis that specifically affect students, Frédérique Vidal is particularly attentive. It is for this reason that it has called for the extension of the grants on social criteria, but also for the creation of the national emergency aid fund, this exceptional financial aid which is aimed at students in precarious situations. No one can get used to the show of students standing in front of associations to eat! Any student who needs it must be able to continue eating at the CROUS. The system is still long and complicated, as I know, but new aids and reinforced accompaniments are being offered today. I meet every week with students and young people who do not know that they could benefit from the National Emergency Assistance Fund or that they could apply for a new grant. The Government is deploying a multitude of responses to help young people in our country. They do not constitute a thousandsheet of answers, but specific answers adapted to each problem. The extension of the measurement of CROUS meals to 1 euro for all students, whether they are fellows or not, and the freezing of tuition fees at universities for the second year in a row attest to the desire of the Minister of Higher Education to support students in the current period. This also responds to Mrs Kuric's question on the sustainability of measures. The Prime Minister himself announced that the aid for the "1 young, 1 solution" plan was extended until the end of the year, bringing the investment in the recovery plan from 7 billion euros to 9 billion euros. We want to accompany the young people of France to the end. Mr Labille, as you said, we must succeed in strengthening the sense of unity among young people. To this end, we strive to combine the response to the crisis and its consequences with the need to accompany a young person who is more shaken than usual. For example, we have widely deployed the universal national service, reserved for young people between the ages of 15 and 17, and we continue to do so – registrations are open until April 20th. We do so because it is necessary to create unity by bringing together young people who no longer cross, so that they feel part of a collective that gives them the energy to face the future. I also believe in the need to support those young people who are most in difficulty and need air, especially through the "learning holidays" that we have made this year. Last year, it reached nearly 1 million young people – exactly 980,000 – who need to go to a holiday camp and live in a bushy school. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] It is therefore necessary and essential to strengthen the sense of unity in our country: the idea of a generational war in which youth would be sacrificed should not be allowed to prevail. We have a collective responsibility that everyone must assume by playing their respective roles, at their level of commitment, by providing answers as the consequences of the crisis are felt. Mr Lambert, as you said: the answer must give the impetus of a shock of confidence that we owe to our young people – in their diversity – in the hope of a return to normal which is largely based on the vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u21	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u22	I come back to the burden, because you seem to underestimate the great suffering of young people when the indicators are red. Moral distress – as has been said – and social distress, acute financial difficulties, suicide attempts and increasing suicides are the main ones. What more do you need to finally act in depth? This is worse for ultramarines: no later than today, the Union des étudiants réunionnais de l'hexagone – UERH – once again called for help in the face of the third confinement that was decreed in sixteen departments. The morale of many of these young people is at the lowest: they have almost no social life and can no longer work small jobs to try to provide for their basic needs. As a result, many drop out of school and the ultramarines want to go home. When are you going to consider their distress calls and provide appropriate responses? In general, the country's youth feel abandoned, forgotten. Another example: in La Réunion, the State planned to abolish twelve of the twenty-four civic service contracts at the social and solidarity grocery store of the Moufia campus, a recognized structure that allows 4000 students, or 40 per cent of them, to eat every month. Fortunately, thanks to the mobilization of students, trade unions, the president of the university, the director of the CROUS and a few elected officials, the state went back and the social grocery store was saved. How could you for one second claim to break this solidarity chain? Where's the logic, Madam Secretary of State? I repeat: the lasting solution is to introduce the minimum student income, i.e. a monthly state allowance for each student. There is also a need to give young people who are unemployed and under 25 years of age, at least for a period of experimentation, an income of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u23	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u24	You have addressed a number of issues, in particular the issue of ultramarines. Indeed, MP, some of the ultramarines living in metropolitan France experienced the period of health crisis more difficult than others, especially because they were far from their families. I have had the opportunity to share life stories with some of them, in the university residences I visited, and I have seen real impulses of solidarity there. We do not want to break any solidarity, any positive energy, at any time; On the contrary. If we deploy 5000 civic service missions as part of the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, it's good to support the youth's energy and allow them to engage themselves. You raise two distinct questions: RSA and student income. As far as student income is concerned, here is the reality: we have reopened the scholarships and created an emergency fund that did not previously exist to respond to the precariousness caused by the health crisis. As for young people who are not students, we have greatly expanded the universal youth guarantee; In addition, those who leave the university without succeeding in finding a first job have the possibility of receiving specific support from the employment centre. I will not avoid the substance of your question: is the RSA the answer adapted to the situation of these young people? The precariousness has several faces and the answers must be diverse and multiple. Every time a young person needs to be accompanied, whether he is a student, in search of employment or in a precarious situation, the mobilization must be collective and we will not put any restrictions or budgetary limits on it, on the contrary. We owe our young people the support and financial support they need to pass this test.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u25	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u26	I will make a comment and ask two questions, Madam Secretary of State. The campaign "1 young person, 1 solution", launched by the Government with great reinforcement of communication, appeals to me: in the usual French, they say "a problem, a solution". I hope that in the Government's unconsciousness, it was not a question of assimilating young people to a "problem"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u27	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u28	... for which a "solution" should be found! Of course, young people have problems, even if they are a chance for France. Among these problems is the extreme precariousness which affects many of them and has been highlighted by many – since the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19, unemployment among young people under 25 years of age has increased by 30%. I would then like to ask you two questions about the autonomy of young people. The first relates to the young AHR. No young person, whatever his situation, aspires to assist: when you are young, you aspire to work, to progress, to embark on a career and to build your professional and personal life. To speak of assistance is therefore to make a bad case for the proposals to create an RSA for young people, which are increasingly shared and are defended from many political and trade union ranks. It is incomprehensible that up to the age of 25, young people entering the labour market from the age of 16 or 18 are not entitled to unemployment or to the RSA, i.e. to a minimum income which guarantees them a little autonomy. Maturity and emancipation require autonomy, and thus means of subsistence that allow life to be considered if not in a very happy way, at least without being totally dependent on third parties, especially for young people from popular families who are already unable to support themselves. My second question concerns students: what about creating an income of autonomy for students? I am not going back to their situation, because it is about the same as that of the rest of the youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u29	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u30	There is no teasing in the formula "1 young person, 1 solution": on the contrary, it is a question of looking at the diversity of youth and at the strengths and weaknesses of each of its components by providing them with the necessary answers. You will not contradict me if I tell you that Aurillac's youth is not the same as that of Seine-Saint-Denis or that of Nantes, at home. This diversity depends on the territory in which each young person lives, but also on his or her social origin – a young person who can be helped by his or her parents does not live like another who cannot receive any family support, not to mention those who are already in the labour market or young parents. I will not go back to the situation of all young people, but you see what we look at them, paying attention to their diversity and thus to their wealth, because we believe that it is the treasure of our nation. You also asked two very concrete questions. The first concerns the situation of young people between the ages of 18 and 25 who are not students. They can now benefit from the universal youth guarantee, in fact from 16 years old, and from a longer and wider support than before since we have extended the scheme. We have also removed some of the obstacles that existed, such as the fiscal situation of parents or the limited number of young guarantees available, and we have strengthened the human support of local missions – the Minister of Labour Elizabeth Borne announced the strengthening of the financial means to recruit people from these local missions and thus support our youth. Then, if you are between the ages of 18 and 25 and enter the labour market, you get more specific support from Pôle Emploi. You're finally asking me about the students. The emergency fund that has been set up will make it possible to respond more quickly to their difficulties, but beyond that, we agree that the best way to combat insecurity is to promote social and economic integration. To that end, we have engaged 20,000 tutors and mentors on university campuses, and this is only one measure among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u31	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u32	Students suffer massively from the economic and social consequences of the health crisis. Even more so than others, they also suffer the psychological consequences of the measures we have taken to deal with the pandemic. The President of the Republic said, "It's hard to be 20 years old in 2020." Unfortunately, this is also the case this year, as the pandemic remains very present in our country. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Government has deployed numerous mechanisms to support these students on a daily basis. To respond first of all to the financial distress of many of these young people, you have since March paid numerous direct aids to scholarship students and fragile audiences. The challenge was also to accompany the students, particularly on the food side. On 21 January, the President of the Republic announced an essential measure: the introduction of 1 euro meals in the restaurants and cafeterias of the CROUS for all students. It was a primary emergency measure, and the Government responded once again. In the face of psychological distress, you have taken strong steps, in particular the creation of the shrink check and the partial return of presential courses to higher education institutions in order to minimize the isolation of students. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] All these measures have contributed greatly to the support and support of students in the face of this unprecedented crisis. To what extent will the new health restrictions decided by the Government in some departments have an impact on the return of students to present-day education? In view of the distress in which many young people find themselves, is it not necessary, in addition to the measures you have taken, to start a broader reflection now on the organisation of student support arrangements?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u33	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u34	You are right: for the past year, the Government has been providing responses as the crisis unfolds – you have set out some of them. In addition to the emergency fund that was set up, I simply wanted to point out that in order to respond to the special situation of students, the Minister of Higher Education and Research has re-aligned the scholarships and frozen the registration fees as well as – very recently – the CROUS rents. You mentioned the need for accompaniment: it has also created 20,000 student jobs for tutors and made it possible to relax internships. You also stressed the introduction of 1 euro meals; They have been extended to non-students, which corresponds to 3.5 million meals distributed at the moment I speak to you. The fight against menstrual precariousness is also one of our concerns and psychologically, we obviously continue to develop shrink checks, which you mentioned the need for; A digital platform dedicated to this topic – santepsy.estudent.gouv.fr – was launched this week to accompany students and direct them to professionals. You also referred to the consequences of the return of students to universities in the 16 departments in which the health situation is more serious. Our mobilization is complete and Minister Frédérique Vidal has made a full commitment so that students can continue to come to university, with respect – of course – for the barrier gestures. The return to the college benches must allow us to break with the isolation that begins to weigh heavily on these young people; It is the subject of long-term work and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome, on behalf of the Minister, the mobilization and seriousness of the students in this period, as well as the teachers who accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u35	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u36	The health crisis has blown up poverty in France: according to the latest estimate of the Catholic Relief, 10 million people would live below the poverty line and one in five children is a poor child. There is an urgent need for action. Last week, the special committee responsible for examining the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects adopted, by a very large majority, one of its amendments endorsing the generalisation of progressive pricing in school canteens. It is a question of correcting a territorial disparity: the more poor children live in disadvantaged areas, the less they eat in the canteen. On average, 12 per cent of children do not go to the canteen, but the percentage is almost 30 per cent for poor children. If these poor children attend an institution classified as a priority education network – REP – or as a reinforced priority education network – REP + – the percentages are 58% and 75% respectively. Three years ago, I tabled a bill that sparked many exchanges with several members of the Government, the mayors, the High Commissioner for the fight against poverty in Brittany and the Association of Mayors of France – AMF. This dialogue revealed a necessary evolution of the original proposal. The mechanism will have to rely on the family quotient of the family allowance funds, as is the case in many communities for extracurricular fees. It is now important for everyone to play the game. A report published by the AMF at the end of 2020 shows that 75 per cent of cities with less than 10000 inhabitants apply a single tariff, regardless of the income of families, which means that children from poor rural families are further excluded from canteen services for tariff reasons. In April 2019, the Government launched the "one-euro canteen" operation for the cities covered by the rural solidarity fund. For these municipalities, the Government offered to finance 2 euros for a meal billed to families at a rate of less than or equal to 1 euro, as part of a progressive tariff scheme. According to the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, this operation currently affects some 180 communes. Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm that you intend to move to a higher speed by introducing a readable and sustainable system?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u37	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u38	I know your old mobilization on the subject, honourable Member, and I can see it on the ground because we are elected from neighbouring territories. Your question about meals at school also raises the question of equal opportunities: one does not study in the same way when one has a full or empty stomach, when one has eaten well at home or not. We have a collective responsibility in this matter. If we believe in education as a factor of emancipation and in school as a cement of our nation, our mobilization will be collective. With regard to the financing of canteens, which involves the communities and therefore a general mobilization, we observe a rather positive dynamic. Under the leadership of Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, and Nathalie Élimas, Secretary of State for Priority Education, expressed his firm – and even fierce – will to deploy the operations concerning breakfasts and meals. Julien Denormandie, Minister of Agriculture and Food, is committed to ensuring that canteens offer local products. We are devoting our energy to this, because it is an acceleration of equal opportunities. Communities and the state are also involved in extra-curricular and extra-curricular activities. The Government's project, implemented by Jean-Michel Blanquer and Nathalie Élimas, aims to increase partnerships with communities in order to deploy very widely, beyond the REP and REP+ zones, the breakfast arrangements. The aim is to reach as many schools as possible so that more children can access them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u39	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u40	[[Mr. Jean-Hugues Ratenon applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, I'm going to talk to you about subjects that obviously hold you to heart: injustice and equal opportunities, which concern, in particular, ultramarine students. In 2020, 65% of them were fellows, compared with 36% of students in hexagonal France. The amount of the grant is calculated in relation to the cost of living in the metropolitan area on the basis of three criteria: family income, the number of dependent children, the distance from the place of study from the family home. The price of life is never taken into account. But life is really more expensive overseas than in the hexagon – proof that teachers are overpaid. The current amount of scholarships cannot therefore be sufficient for ultramarine students. As a result, they do not have the same chances as hexagonal students: they are penalized and faced with financial difficulties, to the point that some are forced to give up their studies. The crisis has shed a little more light on this inequality. That is why I would like you, as part of the ongoing reflections on budgetary autonomy and the financial security of students, to commit yourself, as many student unions have asked of all the ministers who have come to our territories, to revalue the amount of scholarships in the overseas countries and territories. The Republic is the promise of equal opportunities: do not leave ultramarine students outside the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u41	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u42	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u43	You are right: our ultramarine youth has opportunities and real territorial peculiarities. On the basis of the figures that have been transmitted to me, I can tell you that 53,000 scholarship students from overseas countries have received special social assistance. They can now also benefit from more specific accompaniment by a referent, because because of the remoteness of their families, they can feel even more isolated during this period of crisis. Let's get into the heart of the subject of your question: scholarships. In the idea of providing a specific response to each of our young people, I am working in particular with the National Institute of Youth and People's Education – INJEP – on an accompaniment adapted to overseas situations. Whether they are on-site or continuing their studies in metropolitan France, the ultramarine young people are full of ideas and energy. We develop mentoring and mentoring projects to support their energy. That being said, honourable Member, I have no specific answer to your question on scholarships, which I will forward to Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation. The subject is the responsibility of the National Centre for Academic and School Works – NOCUS – and the CROUS. In any event, I can assure you that the mobilization of the Government is collective, particularly with regard to ultramarine youth. Frédérique Vidal and Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for Overseas Affairs, are committed to supporting all young people in our country; It is of course one of those in the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u44	Mr. Philippe Benassaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u45	In fact, I have several questions in one for you, Madam Secretary of State. The statistical service of the Ministry of Labour estimates that the volume of internships offered in the private sector in 2020 is down to 20%. It must be noted that the situation will probably not be much better in 2021: it is of extreme gravity, as you know, and there is an urgent need to act. We cannot accept leaving our youth at the edge of the road. I exchange regularly by video conference with students from my constituency, especially those from the University of Versailles-Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, on the subject of precariousness. While our young people have been paying a very heavy price since the beginning of the health crisis, our duty is to offer them opportunities for professionalization. The latter, which is the essential complement to their academic training, goes through internships. Without it, our youth cannot see real career prospects. While I have noted with interest the announcement of the 1 euro meals and the 30 000 courses offered by the Government, I fear that the measures will be a little theoretical, as the implementation of these courses is almost impossible in the current health context. Indeed, the removal of international mobility opportunities for many students and cancellations due to the new confinement make the situation more complex. How do you intend to evolve the existing device? Since an internship is never as instructive as it is when it is done in a physical way, what arrangements do you intend to offer to companies and administrations so that they can welcome trainees again more than a day a week? While the Government has reduced the mandatory duration of the internship to validate the exams of the certificate of professional fitness, CAP – five weeks compared to twelve to fourteen weeks before – and professional baccalaureate – ten weeks compared to twelve to twenty-eight weeks – how do you intend to guarantee our students that their diplomas will retain their full value?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u46	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u47	In the last few weeks, young people have experienced some anxiety about not being able to complete the internship necessary for the validation of their diploma. We had to remobilize everyone and take action. First of all, we had to guarantee to all students in initial training that they could do an internship in order not to be penalized. The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has therefore extended the timetable and made the conditions for internships more flexible. In order to reduce the pressure borne by young people, it was decided that the courses could be carried out until 31 December 2021, and possibly from a distance. The present-day internship is obviously the most beneficial adventure for the company and the trainee himself, but given the health crisis, it was necessary to provide flexibility for everyone to adapt. The Minister has also evolved other mechanisms such as actual memories, entrepreneurship and tutored projects, all of which are new formulas offering answers to students who need to validate their internships during their course. In addition to the "one young person, one solution" plan and the 30,000 internships you mentioned, we must also mention the mobilisation of certain public actors such as the Ministry of the Interior, for example, which launched 10,000 voluntary missions. Public power plays its role through the state and communities, but everyone can bring their stone to the building. Companies are obviously one of the workers' ankles of this adventure and they are necessary for its success. First step in the professional environment, the internship is an important moment for students and companies. If the students are precious nuggets for our future, I invite the companies to take their place in the boat to help them through this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u48	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u49	I feel in tune with previous interventions: we have all been really shaken by student queues in front of food aid centres, a phenomenon that cannot leave anyone insensitive in this House. Much of our country's youth is also affected by boredom, lack of prospects, and the difficulty of creating a future in this protracted crisis. But youth did not – and never had – need tearing discourse and attempts to recover. It needs to project itself, in the first sense of the term, that is to say, to be part of projects. She needs us to give her perspective in order to face the world. In 132 countries, and even more so in my constituency, where some countries are leaders in this context, many young French people are committed through VIE, international volunteerism in business. However, with the health crisis, the number of missions has fallen by 20% – a considerable drop that penalizes young people who want to discover a country, a culture, a language, to become professional, as our colleague Benassaya pointed out. VIE is above all a tool that irrigates the entire economic fabric, including regions, which transformed behaviour and contributed to ruining the stereotype according to which the French would be afraid of the international. I therefore welcome the Government's efforts, as part of the recovery plan, to encourage VIEs with a cheque of 5000 euros for companies recruiting young people in this context. Madam Secretary of State, have you observed a normal resumption of the activity of the VIE following these measures taken now a few months ago? Many young French people in my constituency have also alerted me about the financial difficulties they encounter when they have to return to France to find their family, their loves, their friends... Advance the costs of a PCR test in countries where they are not reimbursed, this can go up to 130 euros, and sometimes several times a month! Are there any alternatives to these costs in advance, particularly under the Erasmus schemes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u50	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u51	I know how fine you are with mobility devices. I agree with you that travel, learning abroad is a wealth. I myself had the chance, younger, to live a mobility and indeed, it transforms you. The Government is committed to making these mobilitys more democratic. It is therefore a matter of enabling more young people to live this adventure, in particular through the deployment of an Erasmus + expanded programme, with an increased budget of more than 60% for apprentices and those who are outside the university curriculum. We must not let any hope of mobility go away. As we speak, bodies such as the Franco-German Youth Office or the Franco-Quebec Youth Office continue to prepare the mobility that young people can benefit from when the health situation permits. I know that the Deputy Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness, Franck Riester, is fully involved, along with other members of the Government, in finding further responses to VIE. More than ever, we need to give life to this European spirit, this curiosity, this momentum towards the future, which will include the rediscovery of these mobilitys, a source of common memories. I come to the PCR tests, which represent a certain cost for young people who want to return to France, as you have just pointed out to the national representation. This gives me the opportunity to recall that in France, these tests are taken care of by national solidarity. It's a chance, because it's not everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u52	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u53	For many years, young people have been confronted with a combatant's journey to integrate into working life. The pandemic has worsened this situation: rising unemployment, poverty, precariousness, unbearable prolongation of the queues in front of food banks for students deprived of employment and financial resources. For too long, regardless of their degree, our society has imposed on young people five to ten years of hard work, during which periods of internships, small jobs, short and precarious contracts, while waiting for sustainable employment. The labour market places young people under precariousness and flexibility. During successive confinements, 40% of students had to stop working. Many who, because of the loss of their employment contract, have fallen into great precariousness. In addition to the students, hundreds of thousands of young people see their projects – studies, competitions, internships, job interviews, mobility, trips abroad – flying out because of the covid-19 pandemic. The observation is instructive: the conditions for the entry of young people into adult life have deteriorated further; the unemployment rate of 15-24 year olds, which was already double the national average, jumped by 16%; The under-30s represent more than 50 per cent of the poor, while they represent only 35 per cent of the population. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Madam Secretary of State, I know your will, your determination to find solutions to improve the living conditions of young people in difficulty. Pending the experimentation of a universal income of existence for young people, how do you respond to our request for an extension of the RSA to the under-25s, to the introduction of a basic income and a universal endowment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u54	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u55	You have described very objectively the difficulties encountered by some of the youth, whether it is precarious, access to employment or the widening of the inequalities caused by the crisis. Dreams have been broken: we all remember our first years at university, those where we make friends, where we create memories... When I meet these young people, in their diversity, they tell me of several requests: some want the return to normal, that is, the return to the benches of the university, in order to break their isolation; others are looking for a solution to complete their internship; Some are wondering how their diploma will be received; Still others are entering the labour market, well aware that the first job will affect their entire working life. We address these concerns with the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, which has several components and therefore adapted responses. You are asking me more precisely about the precariousness of this part of the youth that is not at university or in the labour market. The system adopted under the previous quinquennium, the youth guarantee, is one of the most beautiful, so that it must be extended even more widely. It will allow us not to let this part of the youth suffer a discontinuity of journeys. When you are between 16 and 25 years old, with 497 euros, you can only provide for your primary needs; You also need human support, easier access to housing and mobility. You need to lift all these brakes that prevent you from paying your driver's license or accessing your rights. I believe in this human accompaniment as a means of combating the non-use of rights, without denying the need for the financial response to precariousness, with the youth guarantee, which must be even more universal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u56	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u57	The crisis that we are going through has made the cause of young people emerge in the public debate. Too long invisible, they are at the heart of our discussions today and that is a good thing. Today's debate is salutary, as their difficulties are immense. Little affected by the symptoms of coronavirus, however, they suffer from economic insecurity, isolation and lack of prospects. So we owe our young people a debt. They have in fact accepted health restrictions at the age when one is the least vulnerable; They were deprived of social interactions at the age when it is essential to be surrounded and to make encounters. The Government has taken into account the economic and material difficulties they face. We can welcome a massive economic effort with the "one young person, one solution" plan, with nearly €7 billion to facilitate youth employment. We can also highlight the various material support schemes for young people in difficulty, such as meals at 1 euro and the exceptional assistance of 150 euros for scholarship students and young people benefiting from APLs. But these efforts must not make us forget their psychological difficulties. It is not easy to be 20 – and not only in 2021. Some 15 per cent of French youth showed major depressive signs even before the crisis. They are now close to one in three who have had suicidal thoughts in recent months. The Government has put in place a system of shrink cheques for students. It was necessary, but there are also hundreds of thousands of young people who are not students. Yet they are just as vulnerable. In this context, Madam Secretary of State, can you give us more details on your action to prevent psychological difficulties among young people as a whole?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u58	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u59	You are right: youth encompasses several categories, and my opening remarks were about the diversity of life's journeys and realities. Each of these categories needs to be addressed, to varying degrees, to the psychological consequences of the crisis. The best answer, of course, is prevention. But before detailing the accompanying arrangements, it is necessary to insist on the fact that we must not doubt, that we must not be ashamed to ask for help if we feel the need for it. It's a message to pass on. Psychological precariousness at one point is not a manifestation of weakness: we must ask for help. All generations are affected. The first step is to dedramatize. Beyond that, we propose two types of responses. First of all the accompaniment of the students, with the entry into force of the shrink cheque, proposed by Frédérique Vidal, and the deployment of a network of highly mobilized doctors. It is enough to push a door, that of the university health service, to remove financial obstacles and start a path of consultation. Then, some of the students and young people who are not – and here, I join you – need to break with the isolation created by telework, the search for a job in a "distant" environment... To this end, we support listening associations. We also intend to help break this isolation through commitment, through the opening of the civic reserve to all those who wish to give a hand and through greater flexibility in civic service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u60	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u61	One can only welcome the Government's choice to keep schools open when millions of students from other countries have been out of school for several months. However, I would like to warn you about the neuropsychic consequences of wearing the mask in younger children. A forum signed by neuropsychiatrist Boris Cyrulnik alerts the public authorities to the delay in acquiring language and sociability in young children due to the wearing of the mask in adults. In June 2020, a team of Chinese researchers showed, from the observation of language delays due to the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) pandemic in 15,000 children aged 0-15 years, that it was highly plausible that covid-19 would have the same consequences due to wearing the mask. In January 2021, the University of Grenoble reached the same conclusions after a survey of 600 early childhood professionals. My question is twofold. Will the effects of wearing the mask on children be studied and apprehended before entering school? Do you think that it is possible to vaccinate early childhood workers as a matter of priority so that they can remove their masks during activities with young children, whether in nurseries or kindergartens?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u62	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u63	This question was already asked to Minister Frédérique Vidal two weeks ago. I happen to meet Boris Cyrulnik tomorrow at fifteen o'clock. Together with the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, we also paid particular attention to the wearing of the mask by the younger ones from the preparatory course, the CP. This has allowed us to keep schools open, because we consider that school is an instrument of emancipation and that the fulfilment of the republican promise goes through school. Inequality must not be allowed to increase. It is well known that one does not study in the same way according to the accompaniment which one enjoys, depending on the situation of his family, that one does not study in the same way whether one has a personal computer or not, whether one has a printer or not, whether one lives four in an apartment or if one has each of his rooms. All these factors affecting education, our priority, recalled by the Prime Minister, is to keep all schools open. It's a daily fight. It is also for this reason that we deploy the salivary tests very widely, in order to help, beyond the teaching profession alone, all the teaching staff to keep the schools open and therefore to maintain the link with the students while ensuring the learning. In addition, we distribute very widely the inclusive masks, i.e. transparent masks, which bring a beginning of response – even if they are not a perfect solution – in that they allow to see facial expressions and thus mitigate the consequences of wearing the mask for the younger ones. We know that children need to be able to read our expressions in order to learn more quickly and effectively. It turns out that the youngest children have rather welcomed the wearing of the mask, because they adapt very easily, but our collective responsibility is obviously to accompany them and to monitor how the situation will evolve over time. I have no doubt that we will accompany all the actors concerned in order, first of all, to keep schools open and continue to provide them with learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u64	The debate is closed. I would remind you that the next debate, on the logistical dimension of the vaccination strategy against the covid-19 epidemic, will be held in the Lamartine room. So we'll meet there at 18:15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u65	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u66	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u67	The next item is the debate on the logistical dimension of the vaccination strategy against the covid-19 epidemic, requested by the Libertés et territoires Group. At the latter's request, he is held in the Lamartine room so that outside personalities can be interviewed. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. It will begin with an hour-long round table in the presence of the guest speakers, to whom I welcome. Then, after hearing an introductory statement from the Government, we will hold a question-and-answer session of one hour's duration as well. The duration of questions and answers will be limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Laetitia Buffet, head of the inter-ministerial vaccination taskforce covid-19, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u68	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me. I am delighted to speak before you today. I will begin by explaining to you what the interdepartmental task force on vaccination covid-19 is and what its missions are. It is an inter-ministerial team, set up in the autumn of 2020, which responds to the Government as a whole and in particular to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, and to the Minister Delegate to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, responsible for industry. Its mission is to ensure that the vaccination campaign runs smoothly throughout the chain, from the identification of suppliers to the injection. In this context, logistics, which we are going to talk about today, is one of the most important nerves of war. This taskforce is made up of about 20 people, public officials from various backgrounds – military, logisticians, engineers, doctors and pharmacists – who represent all the diversity of the professions invested in the daily vaccination campaign. We are, of course, working closely with the Advisory Council on Vaccine Strategy, chaired by Professor Alain Fischer, who is responsible for two other tasks: advising the Government, based on a multidisciplinary approach that integrates both the hard sciences and the humanities, and contributing to the work of communication. In this opening remarks, I would like to highlight three points. First of all, the vaccination campaign, particularly in its logistical dimension, had to be organised taking into account two types of very strong constraints, on which I think it is important to insist. The first constraint concerns supply. As you know, these vaccines were developed in less than a year and the production lines themselves were built in a few months, so very quickly. This can explain the existence today, throughout the supply chain, of certain bottlenecks with which we have to deal on a daily basis. Forgive me for breaking into an open door, but, you know, all doses don't happen at once. The vaccination strategy went through different phases: in the first, we had to vaccinate a lot of people – those who had priority – without having a lot of doses. We will now move on to a phase in which we have much more doses of vaccines; We must therefore be able to disseminate them and inject them all. We will probably then enter a third phase, in which we will have to go and get people who are willing to be vaccinated. These are three distinct phases, linked to the successive arrival of different constraints. As you know, the vaccination campaign has experienced, at times, sharp declines in supply, with which it was necessary to react quickly. This is certainly not the situation we would have liked, but it has forced us to adapt constantly. Today, we have much more doses, in a much safer way – I will come back if you wish. The second constraint refers to the totally new nature of vaccines. Their conservation and transport conditions are very specific. As you know, the Pfizer vaccine is transported and stored at –80°, and the Moderna vaccine is –20°. Each vial contains several doses which should be administered one after the other according to a specific procedure. If you wish, I will give you further examples of the very specific nature of these vaccines. To manage the logistical dimension of this vaccination campaign, we have called on specialists from different backgrounds: some of these logisticians are military, others from the private sector, others were already working on the drug chain within the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. They allowed us to organize specific flows for each vaccine – Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca – according to its own constraints. I come to the second point of my presentation: the four principles that guide our action. The first is equity in the territorial distribution of vaccines. Bearing in mind that this issue is of particular interest, I would like to reiterate that vaccines are distributed in proportion to the target populations of different departments and regions. A nuance, however: in recent times, in the face of the very high epidemic tension observed in some areas, we have carried out "boost blows" – forgive me the expression – in these territories. Apart from this, territorial equity remains our driving force. The second principle is the choice of "zero stock". Today, the average rate of use of doses, which is our key indicator – it corresponds to the ratio between the number of doses used and the number of doses received since the start of the campaign – is 80% for all vaccines and more than 90% for Pfizer. Of course, it is a little less important for AstraZeneca and Moderna, for reasons on which I will be able to return – even though, as far as AstraZeneca is concerned, we all know them, especially since last week. But I would like to point out that a rate of 90%, for Pfizer, the central vaccine in our strategy, in that it represents a major part of our supplies, means that we are almost in a tense flow. Such a level of tension in the supply chain is even quite rare, including in the private sector. The third principle, which can be summarized as "zero dose lost", is that a single dose of vaccine must never be lost. The fourth principle, by which I should have started because it is the most important one, is that of prioritization. This is a key principle in our logistics organization. Indeed, the choice to vaccinate the most vulnerable first implied starting the campaign in EHPADs, which was all the more delicate because we had to use the vaccine with the most logistical constraints. This therefore required a particularly complex organization. In fact, within the taskforce, we usually say that we have approached the problem from the north side, a formula that seems right to me. Today, the vaccination rate is high enough to prove that our choice was good. Of course, it cannot be said that the vaccination campaign was carried out smoothly or that some of its aspects are not perfectable. However, I mentioned the very strong constraints that had to be faced. I will conclude by providing you with some factual information about the current situation. More than 90% of EHPAD residents received a first injection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u69	It's not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u70	The same is true at the national level for almost 50% of people over the age of 75 – even if there are slight territorial differences, this figure being higher in some places. By the end of last week, out of 100 people over the age of 18, 10.8 had received a first injection. If we compare this figure with those of the European neighbours to which we can compare ourselves – Germany, Italy and Spain – we find that we are now in a handkerchief, knowing that France was in the lead at the end of last week. Given the information we have on the supply, we have every reason to believe that we will meet the targets set by the Prime Minister, including the vaccination of 10 million priority adults in mid-April.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u71	Mr Jean-Paul Hamon, general practitioner and honorary president of the Fédération des médecins de France, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u72	We are all aware that vaccines are coming slowly. Nevertheless, as we are on the ground, we find stockpile management unacceptable. We must stop the publicity effects, such as those of last weekend, and act seriously. Imagine that at the Clamart vaccination centre, we learned on Thursday, at 3 p.m., from the regional health agency – ARS – that we were going to get 1800 doses. Since nothing had been planned so far, we mobilized twenty-four doctors and twenty-four nurses because of the need to operate six consultancies, six injection sites and the need for two nurses to prepare the famous doses. But at 6 p.m., when all the vacations were filled, we learned that we would not receive 1800, but 760 doses. It's annoyed, because we had spent the afternoon mobilising staff, even though at the moment, I remind you, we are devoting our time to caring for people. This incident shows that the mobilization of Liberal doctors and liberal nurses, who represent the majority of those who have assisted, is complete – even though we are also working with the Clamart health centre, which provides some nurses and some doctors. But that, three hours after announcing the arrival of a large number of doses, we are informed that, finally, this is no longer possible, proves that there is still some progress to be made, both in the management of stocks and in the respect of health professionals. In addition, you have all heard about the famous issue of extracting a seventh dose of Pfizer vaccine. We are faced with a sclerotic administration that is unable to adapt. A few days ago, we diluted in a vial, according to the recommended protocol, 0.45 millilitre of Pfizer vaccine in 1.8 millilitre of physiological serum, resulting in 2.25 millilitres of fluid to be injected. We have – miracle! – from Chinese syringes to crimped needles, which allow nothing to be lost. With the old syringes, to obtain six doses, the manoeuvre was acrobatic; On that day, the nurses told me they were getting seven. Someone then warned the SRA that the seventh dose should not be reached. We doctors and nurses, however, explained that there was no difference between the first and seventh doses. We've been fighting all day! Every time a nurse got a seventh dose, she put it aside hoping the light would come. But the light never came, so at the end of the day, we ended up with fifty doses that we had not used because we had been banned. I can tell you that on Saturday night, doctors and nurses were very upset. We had to fight very hard for 48 hours to finally get an answer from Mr.Jérôme Salomon authorizing us to use the seven doses. It is unlikely, however, that we will not be listened to, that we will disregard our way of working and that we will be able to doubt our investment. Because I still recall that in less than three hours, we had found twenty-four doctors and twenty-four nurses ready to work on a Saturday and a Sunday; We were even ready to do more. Under these conditions, we understand our annoyance. I learned that, in the same way, professionals were not allowed to use the seventh dose in vaccination centres in Brittany or Occitanie. In some RSAs, however, there is a greater degree of flexibility and intelligence in allowing this dose because it is found that the procedure is followed and that there is 0.30 millilitre of vaccine, the dose required for the injection. That is what we are facing on the ground. Adds the problem of AstraZeneca vaccine. Today I had to receive three vials, scheduled for ten doses each. I'm going to tell you something that normally is not publicly said: from these vials, we actually inject twelve doses. We did not shout it on the roofs so that, as the contract was signed in doses, the price of AstraZeneca vaccine did not increase by 20%. So we use the 12 doses without any problems. All you have to do is take the time. I should normally have scheduled thirty appointments, but the pharmacist told me this morning that she would eventually have only one ten-dose bottle. So I asked my secretary to cancel the seven excess appointments. Fortunately, I had not programmed thirty, because she has other things to do right now; And again, I'm lucky to have a permanent secretary, on the spot, to make appointments! She therefore spends a lot of time moving the consultations to Saturday, since we will only recover the AstraZeneca vaccines on Thursday or Friday. Would you like me to give you my pharmacist's number? You'll see if she's lying! She told me, today even, not to know if it would be delivered Friday morning or Friday afternoon, which means that I'm moving my appointments to Saturday. I didn't know you had people from the private sector to manage the stocks. Knowing that the Government hires private communicators, I assumed that it could also hire private stock managers, and that this might make the immunization process work better. Understand that the liberal doctors and nurses – mobilized, don't doubt them – are at risk, because the problem is not new. We must admit that we do not have enough vaccines: we all know that and we are able to understand it. The French may hear that it is difficult to obtain vaccines that did not exist a year ago, but it must be said. Let us stop organizing the vaccination campaign in such a way that the stocks are empty in one weekend, while at the same time Mr Salomon writes to us on Saturday evening at twenty-two hours six that there will be no vaccines for the following week and that the scheduled appointments must be cancelled. How can we continue to work under these conditions, with a risk of demobilization of doctors and nurses? We know your difficulties, but at least become aware of ours. Stop making ad effects and tell us where we're going.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u73	Anne Souyris, Deputy Mayor of Paris for Public Health and Relations with AP-HP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u74	Among the words that you have spoken, Dr. Hamon, I remember two particularly: anticipation and adaptation. I would add a third: prioritisation. These are the three problematic topics of this vaccination sequence and its logistics. Last summer, when we in the City of Paris started thinking about the vaccine issue, the European order contracts had not yet been signed, but we knew that the vaccines would arrive for the winter. We have therefore begun to identify possible vaccination sites, which could host "vaccinodromes", and have made a request to the police prefecture to do so. But the exchanges between our institutions have ceased, not because of our fact, but because of that of the prefecture and the ARS, who considered that it was too early and that we do not yet have the means to move forward on this issue. That is a shame, because we could have drawn up scenarios from that time on. In November and December, the European contracts were signed. From that point on, we knew about what we could expect in terms of vaccines, even if we didn't know exactly when the HAS – the High Health Authority – would deliver its recommendations. We were waiting for the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines by the end of December and then the others, which allowed us to clarify our scenarios. We have therefore, as early as December, proposed a number of mechanisms. In order to manage the flow of vaccines, especially Pfizer's which was to be kept at -80°, which involved super-freezers and complicated logistics, we suggested storing doses. This would have made it possible not to lose vaccines and to fluidize the vaccination process. We received a negative response late in December, when we had reserved super-freezers, indicating that this proposal was unnecessary and that AGEPS, the General Agency for Health Equipment and Products, would organise the flows. We then proposed to directly manage the journeys and returns between the AGEPS, i.e. the hospital pharmacy, on the one hand, and the EHPADs and our health centres, on the other hand, to facilitate the work. Initially, the planned organization looked like a gas plant: each centre had to indicate the number of its appointments, the information had to go back to the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and then back down to the RSAs. We therefore made a counter-proposal for a more direct organization, but this scenario could not become effective until January; Between December and January, our proposals remained dead letter. When the marketing authorisation – MAH – finally took place at European level and the HAS formulated its recommendations, it was necessary to organize vaccination in EHPADs and then in the centres in a disaster within a few days. We were able to do so from 18 January, but we had to act in haste, which is a shame because we could have started 15 days earlier. Vaccination in EHPADs itself has been significantly delayed due to the necessary authorizations and a number of problems that could have been resolved earlier. But every week lost results in more deaths! And this lack of anticipation problem persists: 50% of those over 75 and 90% of EHPAD residents are currently vaccinated, which means that 60% to 80% of those over 75 will be vaccinated in fifteen days or three weeks. You may know, but we don't! We have, however, again proposed to anticipate this third phase, in order to determine how to continue the vaccination campaign. We are in a period of transition: slots are beginning to free up in our centres, on Doctolib, so we could, in order not to reduce the flow, open vaccination to other populations, under the age of 75, for example to teachers and teams of educators. All this is not thought out and we are told that we still have to wait, but wait what? The 70%? The 80%? We are in exactly the same situation as that described by Mr Hamon: we are informed a week beforehand, which does not allow us to be effective or to protect the most fragile, while the epidemic situation remains serious. Schools, for example, are a considerable vector of contamination: not trying to anticipate the release of niches to offer vaccination to the staff working there is a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u75	Thank you, we come to the questions. I invite all those who wish to speak to register with the meeting department. Each question will be immediately followed by its answer, so that the debate is as smooth as possible. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. The floor is open to François-Michel Lambert, whose group – Libertés et territoires – is at the initiative of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u76	I thank the three speakers for their presentation and explanations, in full transparency. The French are waiting for such transparency, but they also want it to be translated into results, because the number of deaths remains too high, with an average of 250 people dying every day, compared to about 30 in the United Kingdom. Mrs Buffet, it is together that I hope we will succeed in achieving the goal of zero dead as soon as possible. Thank you for your presentation and for the information you have provided. You will agree that, for the time being, the figures you provide to us are far from satisfactory, especially since they are not accessible. Neither the national representation nor the general public can verify the reality of the elements you are advancing: the 90% use rate for the Pfizer vaccine or the fact that we would be at a tight flow, zero stock and zero loss. All this data, we do not find them in the statistics. As Dr. Hamon pointed out, there are far too many malfunctions. We are not up to the challenge: almost everyone sees it and we could do better. Let's not forget that every vaccine injected is equivalent to a life saved! The Government has chosen a costly approach and a late mobilization – you yourself were not appointed until January. This delay in starting is problematic. I would like to ask you about the absence of a space for dialogue with local elected officials, national elected officials, professionals and associations. For the vaccination campaign to go well, the right vaccine must be injected in the right place, by the right person, to the right patient; This requires a common mobilization. The Government has chosen a fragmented and complex flow, rather than a mass flow, which is simpler to manage. To parody the President of the Republic, I would say that this is not a failure, but that it did not work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u77	Mrs Laetitia Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u78	I will provide some factual answers. With regard to access to data, data on deliveries, stocks and use of doses are continuously available on the website of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, open data. Since this format is not the easiest to use, visuals are also offered, including a frequently updated vaccination dashboard. I did take up my duties in January, but the task force existed before my appointment, since it was created last autumn. Therefore, my arrival did not coincide at all with the formation of this task force. Dialogue with professionals is one of the main activities of the Task Force. We exchange within dedicated and structured spaces, with weekly regularity; the healthcare professionals will confirm it to you. For example, every Friday afternoon we devote two hours to representatives of all professions: hospital federations, liberal professionals – doctors, pharmacists, nurses. Our exchanges are free and frank. A weekly exchange is also held, at national level, with representatives of the major associations of elected representatives of local authorities, but the local level is obviously of the utmost importance. The dialogue between RSAs, prefectures, local authorities and local actors is organised in the form of a territorial unit involving the State and all other actors. We all have an absolute awareness of the enormous involvement of communities and health professionals in organizing this vaccination campaign; the opposite would be absurd. We are immensely grateful to all these actors, because we could do absolutely nothing alone. The actors on the ground are showing extraordinary mobilization. Exchange must also take place locally, but territorial units operate in a heterogeneous manner across territories; One of the challenges of the major rise in the vaccination campaign will be to address it. You mentioned the need for anticipation. Between March and April, the amount of vaccines we will receive will increase considerably. It is a major subject that local actors must seize, by concerting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u79	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u80	I'll be brief because time is running out. I am a Member of Parliament for the Seine-Saint-Denis, a department which, in the first wave, paid a heavy price and which today, according to the figures which the Prefect told me before the debate, has an incidence rate of 653 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. The situation is paradoxical: while it is one of the departments most affected by the epidemic, the number of people vaccinated is one of the lowest. I would like to ask you a whole series of questions from my experience as an elected member of this department. First, what teaching do you learn at this stage from the operation of the Doctolib platform? Indeed, we find that the vaccination centres mostly accommodate people outside the department, while the vaccines – as you said – are distributed according to the target population. Without paying in the departmental preference at any cost, there is a problem of consistency. I also don't understand, while the primary health insurance fund – CPAM – knows how to go to patients eligible for the flu vaccine, why we don't use the same procedure for covid-19. I fear that in a department like mine, where particularly fragile populations are living that are not necessarily digitally trained, there are many oblivions. The result is a problem of transparency: we are unable to obtain information on the rate of people vaccinated in the department, when we know the number of vaccines available to it. I do not understand, even though every patient uses his vital card in a vaccination centre, which we cannot know. Finally, in view of what is happening in my department, I join the deputy mayor of Paris. In the police station in my constituency, 30 per cent of police officers are in contact or ill condition. The same applies to firefighters or schools, where 30% of teachers do not hold their positions – schools remain open, but children do not have class. Shouldn't vaccination be "debrided" by opening it to employees in the first and second lines who are confronted with the virus and vectors of its transmission?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u81	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Hamon and Mrs Laetitia Buffet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u82	I would gladly answer the question about Doctolib, since I myself was surprised at the assignment of appointment management to the platform. We give the French mobile phone numbers and e-mail addresses to Doctolib, while the Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie, the CNAM, has shown incredible reactivity – I don't say it often! – in this pandemic by very quickly introducing a generalised fee-paying third party in the context of teleconsultations. This has been a revelation to us; Also, I don't understand why we didn't call on her. The gifts to Doctolib don't date from today. We referred to the Council of State the problem of confidentiality of the data held by the platform: the patient gives his e-mail address and telephone number, the name of the doctor consulted and the frequency at which he consults him. Doctolib hosted the health data without having the status of health data host. He only legalized this practice recently, hosting data from Amazon, whose servers are in Germany, but which, curiously, enjoys this status. My arms fall off, but it's official. This situation poses real problems and I do not understand the gifts that are made in Doctolib. The issue goes beyond vaccination, but I take the opportunity to be heard by the National Assembly to convey to you this concern, as well as the laxity that allowed Doctolib to store data. While according to the Order of Physicians, appointment books represent health data – it is easy to understand when consulting a psychiatrist or a cancerologist – the Council of State has swept this argument, to my surprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u83	Mrs Laetitia Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u84	Concerning Doctolib, Dr. Hamon answered the question at the end of his speech. The Council of State has ruled: it is not for me to question the highest administrative court, which ruled that the hosting of data by Doctolib was not a problem. We did not give gifts to Doctolib: as part of a public procurement, Doctolib was awarded, together with two, and then three other service providers, the management of vaccination appointments. Thus, the vaccination centres have the choice, Doctolib does not enjoy a monopoly. It is true that in some territories, the management by Doctolib was introduced in a very hasty manner. General mobilization has been rapid and important, but the difficulties encountered at the beginning are being addressed. The online appointment system allows the French to reserve, on a massive basis, more than 150,000 primary vaccination slots every day, without having to go through the phone and manage a waiting list, which would be very time-consuming for administrative staff who have other tasks to perform in vaccination centres. This device therefore has virtues. I will quickly answer the other questions...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u85	Indeed, a very quick answer. It's frustrating because you're three and you all have things to say, but the exercise is forced!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u86	In Seine-Saint-Denis, the vaccination coverage of the main target population – those over 75 – is 51.5%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u87	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u88	Mr. Little, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u89	That is precisely the question I am asking. The figure you are making represents the number of people over the age of 75 who have been vaccinated in vaccination centres in Seine-Saint-Denis. On the other hand, we cannot or do not want to tell us how many people have been vaccinated among the 90,000 inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis over the age of 75. In vaccination centres, I have seen far too many patients not residing in the department to think that this is the true immunization coverage of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u90	Thank you for that clarification! Mrs Laetitia Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u91	The role of health insurance is already important, but you are right to say that it is certainly intended to increase in some areas as well as at national level. Today, the CPAM is conducting call campaigns with people over 75 years of age who have not yet been vaccinated. With regard to the possibility of undoing the vaccination, it is not for the taskforce to decide on the vaccination targets. As you know, this prioritization is established by the HAS. In addition, the pace is defined according to the consumption of vaccines. If, at this stage, no decision is taken to broaden the target, I can assure you that we are listening to all the signals you send us – and the city hall of Paris is sending us a lot of them and we thank them, it is very valuable – in order to speed up the pace when we feel it is becoming difficult to fill the slots. Indeed, we do not want to lose any dose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u92	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u93	The Government had established a national strategy to protect the most vulnerable. When we look at the numbers – more than 90% of people vaccinated with EHPAD – we can be proud of that. In addition, the virus became the first nosocomial disease: by mid-February, more than 44,000 cases had been reported. In one third of cases, caregivers may be responsible for the disease, which raises questions. In the hospital in my constituency in Orléans, thanks to numerous exchanges between the various professionals, almost 60% of healthcare workers were vaccinated. In a letter dated March 5, the Minister of Solidarity and Health called on caregivers to be vaccinated to protect themselves and patients. I would like to address Mr. Hamon: personally, I prefer to encourage responsibility rather than coercion, but given public health issues, it is legitimate to question the value of making immunization compulsory for caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u94	Mr Jean-Paul Hamon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u95	Health care professionals are already under an obligation to be vaccinated against hepatitis B. They were all vaccinated, including during the period when there was a link between vaccine and multiple sclerosis, and there were no more cases of multiple sclerosis among them than in the general population. Today, given what is happening with the AstraZeneca vaccine, especially for women under the age of 50, making vaccination compulsory without giving the choice of the vaccine would be a real problem. I recommend you visit Dominique Dupagne's website assete.org: it details the cases of women who have thrombosis following the vaccine, which occur between four and fourteen days after its administration and which are preceded by headaches. In the current state of knowledge and in view of the number of thromboses – twenty-two cases – the benefit-risk balance is indisputably in favour of the vaccine, but the problem cannot be swept away either. If I don't mind the vaccination requirement, the health care professional should be able to choose his or her vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u96	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u97	The figures for the tenth week clearly show that, in the overseas departments, the vaccination campaign is lagging behind. Today, in Réunion, only 23,000 people have been vaccinated, or 3.9 per cent of the population, while in Hexagon, the rate is 7.9 per cent, or twice the rate. There is no reason to be much less vaccinated in the overseas departments than in Hexagon. Mrs Buffet, you indicated that the rate of use of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was 90% in metropolitan France. In Réunion, where we only have the Pfizer vaccine, only 60% of the stock was used. We know that this is due to an unwarranted mistrust of vaccines, but also to the dispersal of the population and the isolation of some people. To reach them, doctors and nurses need to be involved much more, and today they are not. In view of the real situation and the weakness of public hospitals in the overseas departments – we do not have the infrastructure or the capacity to transfer patients in resuscitation to neighbouring regions – all those who wish to do so must be vaccinated in order not to lose doses, which would be criminal. What do you intend to do to speed up the overseas vaccination campaign, as the latest opinion of the Scientific Council calls for, since the vaccination rate is half as low as it is at national level?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u98	Mrs Laetitia Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u99	You are right, the overseas region is characterised by a specificity in terms of the level of adherence of the population to vaccination and, consequently, the rate of use of doses; In any case, that is what local actors are reporting. For these territories – Réunion, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guyana and Mayotte – due to their constraints and the conditions of accession, we have chosen flexibility. When local actors – RHAs and prefects – linked to the communities, raised requests for relaxation of the immunization strategy, we accepted them. In some areas, the target has been extended, either to persons with co-morbidities but below the age of vaccination in metropolitan France or, in the very specific case of Mayotte, to all front-line professionals, including police officers and national education personnel. In addition, the number of doses sent overseas, particularly to La Réunion, will be increased. We hope that, together with the widening of vaccination targets, this increase in available doses will produce a driving effect and will make us want to go for vaccination. So be assured that the demand for flexibility has been heard, at least by the inter-ministerial task force, and that we will remain attentive to the overseas territories if we need to make further changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u100	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u101	The health crisis has put us in the face of the enormous challenge of taking care of a sudden influx of patients suffering from a virus of which we were unaware, and has upset our lives by the need to protect loved ones, to develop vaccines in record time, to organize a supply chain of unprecedented complexity to distribute vaccines, some of which are kept at -80°. We have met all these challenges through the exceptional mobilization of society in all its components: healthcare personnel, researchers, engineers, technicians, "second line" employees, logisticsians, and even citizens. Of course, this did not happen smoothly, since each phase began with a period of trial in front of the unedited. Some call these taunts a squabble, when others recognize that this is a necessary phase of adaptation to an unprecedented situation. So the sequence we are experiencing also knows its running time during which administration and logistics are largely targeted, not always without motive – it is the husband of a generalist participating in vaccinations who bears witness before you. Like the previous phases of the covid -19 crisis, we must constantly reinvent ourselves to be better every day and innovate so that what we live serves our strategic autonomy of tomorrow, whose logistics is undoubtedly one of the links. What are the main structural obstacles identified in the implementation of the vaccination strategy to which French logistics suffers? What are the levers used to overcome them? And how could this experience have a long-term impact on our logistics industry?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u102	Mrs Laetitia Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u103	First of all, I share your point: it is true that everything is new. Vaccines are new, as are their transport and storage characteristics, which means developing completely new methods of use. We need to go very quickly and reach very specific populations. That is why I am in full agreement with you: to face a situation of this nature, one has to adapt constantly, which sometimes requires testing. If it doesn't work, we're reorienting; This is the daily work of the Taskforce, which I allow myself to expose to you with simplicity. As far as structural barriers to the implementation of the vaccination strategy are concerned, this depends on the vaccines. With regard to Pfizer's, the main brake is obviously that of its transport and preservation at -80 °. To overcome it, the choice – or the lever – was that of the logistics system as direct as possible. This is what logisticians call the system "at the point of rise": the product is transported as quickly as possible from the producer to the place of use. In this case, this means that Pfizer delivers health facilities directly to the territory – including, moreover, overseas – which number one hundred, or one per department, who then distribute the product to vaccination centres. The logistics circuit is therefore very specific. With regard to the Moderna vaccine, the stake is different, because if transport and storage only have to take place at - 20° – it is less restrictive than for Pfizer – the quantities received are much less important. The difficulty here is therefore to ensure that sufficient quantities are available to give a real boost to vaccination while remaining careful in the use of doses to be able to administer the second injections 28 days after the first one. I think you are all aware that this is a specific feature of the French vaccination campaign, which distinguishes us from the United Kingdom in particular. We made this choice because, with regard to Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, the scientific consensus was on the need to administer a second dose 28 days after the first dose. This option is obviously structuring for logistics: it forces us to reconcile the absence of stocks with the ability to administer second injections. We had to think of a model allowing us to always have sufficient supplies for these second doses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u104	Please close, Mrs Buffet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u105	As for the AstraZeneca vaccine, our options are still different: we were able to go through city medicine to put ourselves as close as possible to the French, by mobilizing general practitioners and pharmacists, whose commitment I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u106	As a follow-up to your answer, Mrs Buffet, Dr. Hamon mentioned earlier the additional doses in the vials – the seventh for Pfizer and the eleventh and twelfth for AstraZeneca – and the prohibition to use them. I saw you shaking your head negatively, but I myself noticed on the ground the existence of these prohibitions. Could you answer us on this point? Are there any national recommendations in this area, or is it left to the discretion of the SRAs? Mrs Laetitia Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u107	I don't know when I made a head move, but yes, in some situations, we manage to extract a seventh dose from the Pfizer vaccine. This requires the right gesture – I think Dr. Hamon will not contradict me – and the availability of specific material. Currently, government equipment purchased and delivered to hospitals and immunization centres makes it easy to administer the six doses planned and, in many cases, a seventh injection. For example, to the extent that the marketing authorization says that Pfizer vials contain six doses, the national guideline is that if you are able to administer a seventh dose, do so. The aim is of course not to lose any dose and to use as much as possible the contents of the vials. We trust health personnel to extract this possible seventh dose under satisfactory health conditions. I repeat, the instruction is to administer the dose when possible. However, since we know that not all personnel will be able to do so and that a particular gesture and the right equipment must be controlled, we cannot ask for a systematic injection of this seventh dose. Moreover, this is not what the marketing authorisation provides for, which of course remains the reference document. Once again, the dose is administered whenever possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u108	I insist that in the vaccination centres I visited, the order was to ban the administration of this seventh dose. I understand that you cannot formally impose the injection of this extra dose, but the message is that you cannot use it. That is why I come back to this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u109	We said it again this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u110	Mr Jean-Paul Hamon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u111	I would point out that, since last Tuesday, we still have an official letter from Mr Salomon allowing us to administer the seven doses when possible. I would like to have at your disposal the picture of the set syringe, unfortunately made in China, which allows to inject this seventh dose. I believe, moreover, that for those at my disposal, they were ordered by the Clamart vaccination centre. Unfortunately, however, we cannot systematically inject these seventh doses, because we save these types of syringes – I admit that this is a bit frustrating.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u112	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u113	We are well aware that only vaccination will allow us to control the pandemic and that containment can delay its development. In this regard, we are promised millions of doses, but how can we trust these promises? How can you be sure that the doses will be received when, it seems, you have no delivery insurance? So far, the contracts have been poorly respected. As Dr. Hamon says, if there is a shortage, let us dare to tell the French! They are ready to accept it, but let's stop constantly going back on our choices by changing the target audiences! It throws trouble and discredits vaccination, making the future uncertain. At present, we do not have much guarantee of vaccination coverage and have little hope for a containment that is not. Where are we going?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u114	Mrs Laetitia Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u115	We're going to about 10 million immunized in mid-April. That is the goal that the Government has set for us, and I believe that we will succeed in achieving it. To answer to you about the delivery of vaccines, it is true that we have experienced very complicated moments, which forced us to make volte-faces. This is one of the explanatory elements of the situation that Dr. Hamon mentioned earlier. We have seen a decline in supply from Pfizer, which has since been caught up. This was also the case with Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccines. For all three vaccines, there were difficult episodes at first. As I said in my opening remarks, the production chain was established in a few months, with bottlenecks absolutely everywhere and factories that did not necessarily manufacture vaccines in the past. This is a truly major industrial challenge that we must be collectively aware of. According to the information I have today regarding future supplies, I have no reason to worry about Pfizer's ability to deliver. If I may say so, this is our blockbuster vaccine. The overwhelming majority of the doses we currently receive come from this laboratory. For several weeks, the only new supply developments have been increases in deliveries. So we had good news with the planned delivery of several hundred thousand extra doses for the last weeks of March. That's why we're mobilizing you only three days in advance: we're only learning about the arrival of extra doses ourselves with this short delay, and you would like us not to make them available immediately on the ground. This requires a great deal of agility, especially to schedule vaccination appointments, and we are fully aware of the level of mobilization this requires for these doses to be used immediately. There is therefore no reason to doubt the deliveries of Pfizer, nor those of Moderna. As far as AstraZeneca is concerned, as you know, the situation is more complicated. The decline in supplies has been massive and we remain in some uncertainty about this vaccine, which requires us to take a lot of logistical precautions. Honestly, things are not easy to manage, but the European Commission is on the bridge to deal with this issue with the levers that are its own. In any case, I repeat, from a logistical point of view, there is no reason to doubt the delivery of our main vaccines, starting with Pfizer's, or to think that we will not have enough doses. For my part, I believe that we will reach the target of 10 million vaccinations by mid-April.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u116	Let's cross our fingers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u117	We come to the end of the first part of the debate. Mrs Souyris, you who have spoken little, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u118	Yes, Madam President. I would like to come back to the subject of Doctolib and the "go towards" scheme for the populations furthest from vaccination. It is true that the use of Doctolib raises an important issue of data transmission. As far as we are concerned, we have worked to have other tools than this one. For example, we created 3975 to respond directly to requests and ensure that Doctolib is not the only interface to get an appointment, if only because not everyone has access to the Internet. Moreover, this question invites us to ask ourselves about social inequalities. Earlier, it was said that only 50 per cent of people over the age of 75 had received a first injection. Who are these people? Mr.Peu, elected from Seine-Saint-Denis, said: many people went to a territory other than the one where they resided for vaccination. In Paris, for example, some people in the richest neighbourhoods have been vaccinated in the poorest neighbourhoods because they use more Internet and can move more easily. This phenomenon still imposes a limit on the use of Doctolib and has the consequence of leaving aside some people, who are difficult to quantify. It is therefore very important to complete the "go-to" scheme, which also involves considering how to implement it. For our part, we have set up vaccination centres at the foot of certain buildings, in the most popular areas of Paris. But how now that we can no longer administer AstraZeneca, or at least in the same way and to the same populations? Are we using Pfizer's vaccine instead? Once again, it was necessary to anticipate the possibility of implementing the Government's instructions and ensuring that people over 75 years of age had access to vaccines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u119	Any last words, Dr. Hamon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u120	It would be good if we had more flexibility to practice vaccination. Of course, the Pfizer vaccine can be stored at -80°, but it can be left at room temperature for a little while. We talked about mobile teams to vaccinate fragile people, but treating physicians are able to organize for their patients who have difficulty moving. Thus, in the centre where I work, we were able to store two or three syringes, which we entrusted to families, under correct conditions, so that a liberal nurse could vaccinate the patient at home. This does not require any particular protocol or structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u121	I thank our guests for their participation in our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u122	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u123	The meeting was resumed. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u124	The vaccination strategy in which we are engaged is out of standard; by its scale, by its deployment, by the logistical, technological and human means it requires, it is unprecedented. A few weeks ago, this hope was still abstract, but the research kept all its promises, realizing the prowess, in just a few months, of finding a vaccine against covid-19 and transforming it into a concrete solution. Today it is up to us to deploy this vaccine in the best conditions, and we do nothing else. I have already said it, but I repeat: we do not sail on sight, we do not advance with a wet finger. A strategy has been defined by the High Health Authority, which is an independent authority composed of highly competent scientists. Priority audiences have been identified, allowing for a process ranging from individual to general: first, people at risk of developing serious forms of covid and professionals most exposed to the virus; Then, gradually, the population as a whole. The strategy evolves according to the information, which is refined, and the constraints that sometimes arise. In the beginning were the EHPADs, the priority of priorities. Residents of these facilities account for one third of all deaths, while they make up only 1% of the population, and they are the first victims of the disease since the beginning of the pandemic. This prioritisation was therefore essential, given the gradual arrival of vaccine doses over the course of 2021. EHPAD federations have asked for some time to organize themselves, to explain the value of vaccination and to obtain the consent of residents. We have respected this time, and this has been criticized: one day, we lack humanity, the next day, we lack efficiency; Anyway, let's not lack constancy or perseverance, because we need it! We have endeavoured to minimize delays while allowing this population the time to understand and adhere to the process. Today, more than 90% of EHPAD residents are vaccinated, that is, much more than our estimates made on the basis of previous vaccination campaigns and the adherence of these audiences to vaccines. We then quickly – at the beginning of January – decided to speed up the strategy, to simplify it, but also and above all to amplify it, by extending it to health professionals who meet the criteria for exposure, i.e. those whose activity should not be interrupted during an epidemic period. Among these professionals, we have given priority to those at risk of serious forms, given their age or co-morbidities. The strategy has not changed, the priorities have not changed, only the timetable has been accelerated. Braquets change, but the road remains exactly the same, a road that is not straight and sometimes requires adaptations: we are ready to negotiate turns when they appear. Since the hope raised by the vaccine has become a reality, many consultations have taken place with patient and user associations, with health professionals, hospitals and liberals, with EHPAD federations and, of course, with elected officials. A few weeks ago, we were discussing the vaccination strategy here, as part of a motion for a resolution. On 7 December last, all the presidents of parliamentary groups were gathered by the Prime Minister to discuss this vaccination strategy, which was then under construction. At very regular intervals, this subject is therefore debated, discussed, in the National Assembly, in the Senate and until the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, the EESC, before which I have spoken recently. This vaccination strategy was therefore not decided behind closed doors on a corner, without consultation or debate – and it is happy. Even today – and I am delighted about it – you are giving me the opportunity to recall our choices to protect our fellow citizens and to overcome this virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u125	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u126	We do not want to know whether we could have done better than what has been done so far, because we want to move on. Free to those who wish to set up a commission of inquiry, that is not the point here. The numbers are clear and the deaths are still far too many. We therefore want our debate to allow us to build together a vaccination logistics that will ensure as soon as possible the protection of the French against covid-19. For this, we need to move from fragmented logistics, chosen by the Government – without debate, contrary to what you say – to much too complex logistics, which do not achieve the objectives that were yet within our reach, to a mass logistics, simpler and more efficient. We are pleased to learn that you are going to open vaccinations, even though we regret that, at the beginning of January, you refused the proposals made by Paris or Marseille – I still remember a meeting, on 10 or 17 January, with the prefect of the region and the director of the ARS, where the deputy mayor of Marseille, Michèle Rubirola, proposed the opening of the Velodrome stadium and the support of the sailors-firemen, as Paris proposed to appeal to the soldiers who are the firefighters of Paris. For my part, on 24 March 2020, just a year ago, I asked you in the Chamber to have an expert in logistics. He will arrive much later, in the fall, in the form of a consulting firm. Since then, there has been very little debate, almost none, except for the meeting on 7 December. Exchanges are difficult and it is almost impossible for national representation, local elected officials and the various actors involved to share anything with the Government. I will therefore ask only one thing: can we finally work together on this vaccination strategy and get a schedule worthy of that name, without being obliged to summon you? We have only one will: to ensure that there is no longer a person in France who dies of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u127	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u128	Mr President, with another strategy, you say, we could have achieved better results. But if I were in your place – and I was – I would ask which ones. Our objective is clear from the beginning: to protect first and foremost the most vulnerable people from the risk of serious forms, to vaccinate people who are at risk of dying of the virus, being admitted to resuscitation or hospitalised – I suppose you will agree with me on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u129	I can't answer, I'm not allowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u130	Well, know that we have vaccinated more than 90% of EHPAD residents, that we have targeted fragile populations with co-morbidities and populations over 75 years of age, in which we will soon exceed 50% of primary vaccination – we are currently around 49%. We have given priority to older people. I therefore do not know what the objectives you referred to in your question are, but I repeat to you that, for its part, the Government assumes that, like most of our European neighbours, with the exception of a few countries that have immunized all at once, it has chosen first to protect the most fragile. We have focused our efforts on this target. This has been complicated logistically, but we have done so in EHPADs, just as we do in people over the age of 75 and in people who are very sick, a little younger. [[Walls on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] All European countries receive the same number of doses of vaccine in proportion to their population. You will therefore allow me to make a comparison, since these bloomed as early as January. For my part, I have the updated figures: to date, France has vaccinated 10.8 inhabitants per 100,000 major inhabitants, while Spain is 10.7, Germany 10, Italy 9.8. I mean, we're in a handkerchief. In any case, one cannot – or more – claim that France would be behind its European counterparts in terms of immunization coverage. More interestingly, the details of the figures show that the average age of people vaccinated in France is higher than in most of our neighbours. I want to stress that all the doses that come to us are deployed in the centres and none are stored. Contrary to what you suggested, there has never been an anti-vaccinodrome religion. The principle that I have always defended and which we have discussed several times with Parliament was that we should not sacrifice proximity on the altar of efficiency. Some countries have chosen to open forty or fifty vaccination centres, sometimes forcing octogenaries to drive two hours and wait two hours in the cold of winter before being admitted to a vaccine. We considered that to vaccinate elderly people, often isolated, having more than a thousand centres in the national territory was a guarantee of proximity – a value to which a member of the Libertés et Territoires group will not fail to be sensitive. We approach the 1500 centres throughout the national territory, allowing everyone to have access to vaccination with a minimum of travel. Since in ten days, deliveries will increase massively, we will also deploy large vaccination centres, capable of immunizing several thousand people a day. Both strategies are complementary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u131	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u132	I cannot help but start by reminding ourselves of the need, in order to collectively meet this challenge, to increase the global vaccine production capacity, to which we could no doubt take a better part. Second, it would appear that the contracts were not always strictly complied with. I would like to know your opinion on compliance with these contracts, which we are not aware of in detail: what relations have you had with the laboratories which have contracted with the European Union? Thirdly, since Doctolib was mentioned in the previous discussion, I would like to know what you think of this platform's role in the immunization strategy, and whether social security could not take a more important place by pursuing a proactive policy to get all those who should be vaccinated. Finally, I would like to understand whether we are prepared to meet the challenges ahead, related to the arrival of more vaccines, their delivery and their use. In my territory, many local immunization capacities are not employed, although several local authorities have reported their availability to contribute to the organization. There is still room to gain local immunization capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u133	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u134	One point, before you answer: there are currently 10.8 inhabitants vaccinated in France per 100 inhabitants. I said "100,000 people" by reflex thinking about the incidence rate, but we will soon reach 11% of the population, or 9 million injections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u136	Indeed, it is very different!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u137	You asked a lot of questions and I only have two minutes, so I won't be able to answer all of them. We had initially entered into a joint contract with Italy, Germany and the Netherlands for the AstraZeneca vaccine. The European Commission then recovered the contract and then began to negotiate with the other laboratories with a view to supplying all of Europe with vaccines. France, at the request of the President of the Republic, has played a particular role in establishing a clause on the status of the vaccine as a global public good – an issue to which I know you appreciate – in order to ensure that we will have the capacity to help countries outside the European market that would not have the capacity to contract large contracts. Global production is concentrated, including in France, where laboratories can produce vaccines from other laboratories. If you identify a potential production line that is not being used, let me know! An important prospect has been made, and the manufacture of the vaccine is now a global industrial adventure. The role of Internet platforms is important. Digital technology irrigates all industrial sectors in our country and in Europe. Digital platforms are a valuable help, even if the phone is also used. They are a pilot tool to visualize the doses consumed and appointments made, to check that there are no forgotten stocks somewhere and to prevent centres from remaining in carafe when making the second injection. Several companies support us in this process, including the French company you mentioned, which also works with Germany. Cocorico, for once, because it's not always the case! Digital is useful, if it was the meaning of your question: we need it in a modern world...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u138	But there is no public tool!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u139	... to make an appointment, to discuss with the 1500 centres and to manage the daily, even multi-daily, order books. If everyone developed their own digital solution, I wouldn't know how to do it, how to work with local software that wouldn't be interoperable with other centres' software, ARS platforms, delivery agents, and the national order book. Social security has a role, yes, in the "go to" approach. The more precarious and elderly people, the less easily they have access to a vaccination centre and the less likely they are to have a treating doctor. However, they are generally very fragile in the face of viral risk. We must therefore go to them, especially in Seine-Saint-Denis, where the CPAM is doing a remarkable job. Seventeen people have to be called to make an appointment. There is therefore an important work of conviction to be carried out, and I urge the local authorities as well as the CCIS – the communal centres for social action – that I have gathered on many occasions to develop this approach to "go towards". Some departments have had innovative initiatives. The Gers, for example, with whom I communicated via video conferencing, set up a "vaccinebus" to break distances where they remain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u140	Mr Hugues Renson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u141	Since Saturday, sixteen departments are again placed under a confinement regime of which one understands that it is not really one; indispensable, these measures nevertheless constitute a new test for many of our compatriots who are again immersed in economic, social and even psychological problems. Everyone is now aware of this: beyond all the measures we can imagine, we will really emerge from the health crisis only through a massive, rapid and successful vaccination campaign. Challenges, you know them better than anyone else; There are many of them, and the difficulties must all be solved methodically, one after the other. This is due to logistical difficulties related to the conservation of vaccines, but also to the distrust of a part of the population, bureaucratic obstacles and problems of production and supply. Things are moving forward. The vaccination strategy chosen by France, which consists of prioritizing the most fragile, is undoubtedly the right one, but everyone agrees that the vaccination campaign must now go faster. We're talking about undoing the vaccination, making it more massive, changing the scale... Whatever the terms, we have to move forward. This begins with increasing vaccine production capacity in our territory. So, Minister, what about the production in France by the subcontractor Delpharm, in Saint-Rémy-sur-Avre, by Recipharm, in Indre-et-Loire, and by the Fareva group in Pau? It may also be necessary to extend vaccination to new and exposed audiences – I am thinking of teachers, police officers, cashiers. Finally, mass vaccination must be allowed. What exactly is the situation with regard to the planned deployment of vaccines such as the one that could be born in Paris, at the Parc des Expositions de la Porte de Versailles? It is, I believe, indispensable, and I welcome the new prospects in this area. Production, public expansion, distribution: how can France deploy its forces to achieve collective immunity on the summer horizon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u142	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u143	It is necessary to go faster, but this will only be possible by one parameter: the increase in deliveries. Indeed, we have no hidden stock, and all the doses delivered are used. We made 1.5 million vaccinations last week, and 1.2 million vaccinations last week, given the few days of suspension of AstraZeneca. However, we receive a little less vaccines than we use today. This is possible thanks in particular to the seventh dose because, contrary to what I have heard, when a seventh dose can be used, it is; the common sense of health professionals does not need a national directive. We'll go faster when deliveries increase. In the first week of April, we will increase from a few hundred thousand doses of Pfizer per week to 1.9 million. And, since we will go faster, the centres will have to be able to vaccinate more. I have learned that a vaccination centre in Strasbourg informs the population that it will not vaccinate on public holidays, but I tell you that vaccination centres will vaccinate on public holidays, every day, on weekends and, if necessary, on nights. We will increase the number and timing of the centres and we will do everything we can to provide them with the human resources to enable them to function. In addition, we are going to create state centres – vaccinodromes or megacentres, no matter what the terminology – that will be established in the territory at least one per department, in order to keep pace. At the same time, liberal health professionals – doctors, pharmacists, nurses, midwives – will also have to vaccinate with a steady pace. Enlargement will follow the same logic as we have been applying since the start of the campaign. A 69-year-old pensioner has a much greater risk of contracting a serious form of illness than an active professional, whether a teacher or police officer, aged 30, and patients in resuscitation are elderly people. As age is the main risk factor, we will expand by age group: after people aged 75 and over will soon come the turn of another band. We will increase the target audience in order to complete all appointments, the urgency being to protect those who can die or go into resuscitation because of the virus. Debrider, yes, but according to the doses we have! It would not be very elegant to call 10 million people when we only have 1 million doses a week, because people would break their noses when making an appointment. We accompany people and we multiply the steps to "go towards" to vaccinate in order of priority, that is, in order of risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u144	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u145	Just a question of a curious impatient, as we all are. I followed the evolution of Johnson's vaccine, Janssen in Europe. The publication begins to date, as does the FDA – Food and Drug Administration – and the AMM. The vaccine has an efficacy rate of 66%, which is correct; In addition, it is monodose; Finally, it seems to me that it will be possible to produce it on Sanofi's production lines, which would give us some vaccine autonomy. Where are we on this vaccine?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u146	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u147	Thank you for that question. I realize that I did not reply to Mr Renson on the French vaccine production: the first deliveries of Delpharm and Fareva are expected in April. Normally, technology transfer takes 18 months; It took three. Similarly, we hope to have the Johnson &am p; vaccine Johnson in France in mid-April. I do not yet know the exact dates of delivery or the quantities that will be delivered, alas, and I am looking forward to knowing them too. You're right: it's a monodose adenovirus vaccine, which works like the AstraZeneca vaccine and on which we rely a lot to amplify the campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u148	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u149	Not to mention special cases such as Israel, the United Arab Emirates or Bahrain, which have already vaccinated a large part of their population, France is lagging behind in Europe. You can tell us about Germany and Italy; I will tell you about the United Kingdom, which is far ahead of us and which has vaccinated nearly 850,000 citizens in one day last Saturday. But Malta, Serbia, Hungary, Estonia, Denmark, Turkey, Iceland, Finland, Cyprus, Lithuania, Austria, Norway, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ireland, Poland, Portugal... also vaccinated a larger proportion of their population than France. On several occasions, local elected officials had proposed to take their part in the establishment of large-scale vaccination centres, but your decisions have been delayed and they are still late. After the Vélodrome stadium, we are waiting for the Vaccinodrome of the Stade de France in April. Why did you wait so long? The giant vaccination centres had long been honored by the Government, which categorically refused to include them in its vaccination strategy. It's never too late to change your mind, but can you at least explain the reasons for this shift? An epidemic is managed by communicating a lot of information, and we haven't had much of it. From this point of view, the method chosen by the Defence Council and the President of the Republic himself is not the right one. What was missing was the explanation, especially at the end of January, early February: while many European countries decided to reconstitute, this decision was not taken in France. It will later turn out that it was a mistake. We should know what the President of the Republic had, but we still don't, and we don't know what prompted him to do that. Can you give us some insight into this objective data? What decision did the President take, on the basis of what arguments? Nevertheless, it has cost many of our fellow citizens the death of nearly two hundred a day for forty-five days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u150	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u151	Mr. Member, that's a shame. While I am pleased to participate in this debate on the vaccination strategy, in two minutes you have multiplied the inaccuracies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u152	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u153	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u154	...which serves it, while it is necessary for the French. You thus give an inaccurate list of countries that would have vaccinated their population more heavily than we did, by quoting Norway, when we vaccinated as much as it did, or Malta and Estonia, when we vaccinated as much as these two countries combined! It's simple: all the countries of the European Union are delivered in vaccines in proportion to their population and we use all the doses delivered in high-flow. Therefore, you cannot say –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u155	Minister, we have the numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u156	... or rather you have the right to do so, but I must contradict you – that some countries of the European Union would have vaccinated their population more massively than we did. You are also quoting the example of the United Kingdom, which is a supporting figure. But check if these only concern adults, or if they also include minors! On the Internet, there are many problematic comparisons. Switzerland, for example, other countries you mentioned, did not start using the AstraZeneca vaccine; She hasn't allowed it yet. That is true, the United Kingdom is an exception. But he started a single-dose vaccination, in disregard of laboratory indications. It is his right, but for my part, I prefer to follow the recommendations of the scientific authorities and of the laboratories concerning the placing on the market. Indeed, if we do not follow them and encounter a problem, the laboratories cease to be responsible. Moreover, the level of protection afforded by each vaccination strategy will not be known until later on. You are also right to quote Israel, and a few countries in the Middle East, which have bought massive doses for their population, but this is very small. The countries of the European Union, in any case, are vaccinating at extremely close rates. If I mentioned the difference in vaccination rates between France and Germany, it was not to sing cocorico, but because 10,8% for us and 10% for them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u157	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u158	...it's "kif-kif bullfighter," since these numbers vary from day to day. Then you claim that we have dogmatically opposed the creation of vaccines. However, I explained earlier why we were not dogmatism in this area and why these creations would not make sense at the moment: for a volume of 100,000 or 150,000 daily vaccinations, the existing vaccination centres and liberal practitioners are enough. On the other hand, as we move to 400000 or 500000 vaccinations a day, we will need these new centres for more vaccinations. It has never been written or said anywhere that we intend to do without ad vitam aeternam. As for your questions about the Defence Council's deliberations on the epidemic, that is not why you convened me this evening, so I would like to stop my answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u159	We understand – you only have to ask nice questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u160	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u161	I come back to a question already raised by a colleague, that of the terms of the contract for the purchase of vaccines entered into by the State. In its publication on the vaccination strategy, the Office parlementaire d'évaluation des choix scientifiques et technologiques, OPECST, questions the conditions for purchasing doses from laboratories and asks in particular what clauses of cancellation, renegotiation and compensation are provided for in these contracts, given the large number of orders in France. Although these clauses are of course covered by business secrecy, the urgency in which the negotiation was conducted and delays in delivery raise concerns about a situation similar to that in 2009 with H1N1, where the State had given up prices and agreed to place firm orders, rather than conditional instalments. While it is gratifying that the European Union has been able to negotiate and conclude contracts with laboratories, even though this is not part of its prerogatives, it is important to know whether its intervention was really beneficial to France, or whether the negotiation would have been more beneficial to us if we had conducted it ourselves. I therefore wish to obtain further information on the terms of the contract for the purchase of vaccines entered into by the State: are vaccines purchased by conditional instalments or by firm orders? Are there any actual termination and compensation clauses?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u162	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u163	The fact that the European Commission itself, not its Member States, has placed an order is of interest, that of giving us access to a wide variety of vaccines. In contrast, Japan, often cited as an example for its management of the health crisis, made the choice not to order vaccines from Pfizer, preferring to wait for the one designed by AstraZeneca – unless it is the other way around – so that there the vaccination campaign hardly begins. To many, we're stronger. The European Commission, the 27 countries of the Union, have enabled us to benefit from a very wide "portfolio" of vaccines. The rules are clear and transparent from one country to another. I repeat: no country buys vaccines for itself alone and if one country, after selling another, recovers doses, it puts them in common pot. This European collective approach is important. You refer to laboratories that do not comply with scheduled deliveries. This is obviously regrettable and, believe me, I am the first to deplore it. When AstraZeneca informs us that instead of receiving 1300000 doses for a week, we will receive 140,000, it changes everything for the doctors and pharmacists who were waiting for them and will not receive them, and it creates misunderstanding, sometimes anger. I understand this all the better because, myself, it makes me angry, every time a laboratory calls to prevent the delivery of vaccines from being fewer than expected, because I look forward to protecting the population. So we share that feeling. Finally, the liability regime is laid down in the European Union's common law on consumer protection. So we can't cancel orders. On the other hand, we can legitimately beat our fists on the table, which is what the European Commissioners concerned are doing in particular. I would also like to return to the countries of Eastern Europe that you mentioned earlier, Mr David. If their vaccination rate is higher than ours, they have used vaccines that are not validated by the European Health Authority. If, as Minister of Health, I decided to validate a vaccine that had not been validated by the European Medicines Agency, or even submitted an application for validation to the Agency, stating that it was not serious, I would have difficulty escaping a committee of inquiry. And for good reason. Let us compare what is comparable: the countries of the European Union have the same vaccines, validated at the same time by the European Medicines Agency. These are the ones we use, with confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u164	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u165	Since the debate is about logistics, my questions will be about logistics. First, what do you plan for older people in IRM 1 and 2 – iso-resource groups, who measure dependency – living at home and not in institutions? In my department, together with the fire department and the departmental council, we have taken initiatives to vaccinate people at home. But these are local initiatives, taken in conjunction with the Prefect and the SRA. Secondly, I do not know whether you have listened to what Mr Hamon, representing part of the medical profession, has just said about the dysfunctions in the supply chain, which we have all seen. The choice to rely, in the territories, on the ARS, which have no logistical competence, without placing them under the authority of the prefects or relying, at least at the start, on the territorial authorities, the SPACs and the MSA – the Mutuality of Agricultural Sociality – does not explain much of the logistical malfunctions found?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u166	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u167	Mr President, your question about elderly people who are losing their autonomy, who live at home, is very good. As I said earlier, it is a priority: we pay back the medicalized transportation to get these elderly people, take them to a centre and take them home. In addition, home vaccinations are taking place in some territories. I have pushed communities, including departments, to identify older people. The CASCs, the communes, for example thanks to the heat file, are familiar with isolated elderly people. I addressed this issue in November at a meeting with community representatives, inviting them to address this issue, because they can do so better than anyone else. On the other hand, I again seized the HAS to ask if it was possible to allow nurses to prescribe the vaccine – that of AstraZeneca, for example – in addition to administering it, which would facilitate vaccination by nurses at home. This is a major issue for me. The territorial organization is based on prefects, regional health agencies and communities. We have created coordination cells in each department, where elected officials are invited. Regional units have also been set up, at the request of Regions of France, to work on major logistical and strategic issues. The vaccination centres were chosen not by me, but by the communities and prefects, and they were the ones who granted the opening permits. All logistics is therefore territorialized. For having visited nearly forty or fifty vaccination centres since the beginning of the campaign – I may exaggerate, say some thirty – I can tell you that wherever I go, the elected representatives are mobilized, just like the ARS – which I thank – and the prefects. If it weren't for that, it wouldn't work. Cohesion in the territories is real. It is always striking that I do not receive the same returns depending on whether I am travelling on the ground or going to the House or the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u168	That's weird!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u169	Surprisingly, sometimes the same parliamentarians who ask me about the lack of coordination in the territories tell me that everything works very well when I meet them in their constituencies. If you want, I invite you to come with me: tomorrow, I will visit another center, in Valenciennes, where I am pretty sure that people are satisfied, because they are very motivated and mobilized, and fortunately. I thank them; They're the ones running the vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u170	Why don't you put the ARS under the authority of the prefects?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u171	Mr President, since the HPST law – on hospital reform and on patients, health and territories – which you have voted for, I believe, it is foreseen that in the event of a health crisis, the prefects will have authority. Their role is therefore already provided for in the law. And then, fortunately, the ARS agents are here. When I call on a Thursday, the day after the delivery of a stock of 200,000 doses, to explain that the centres will have to be reopened at the weekend in order to be able to sell it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u172	There's a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u173	...I am very happy and proud to be able to count on the mobilization of state agents in the territories, in the prefectures and the ARS, as elected officials, obviously, who always have "banana", a big smile, when we announce the availability of vaccine doses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u174	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u175	I will rest on the question that I did not receive a satisfactory answer earlier, probably because it is the responsibility of the minister. You know me, I'm elected from Seine-Saint-Denis. I spent a lot of time in the immunization centres, where I welcomed the Prime Minister and several members of the Government. Each time, I welcome, of course, the exemplary mobilization of city medicine, municipal services, firefighters and SRA. Yes, the mobilization is great. [[Minister acquiesce]] Simply, once again, in this third wave, my department is among the most affected by the epidemic, those with the highest mortality, as was already the case in the first and second waves. Despite this, we are unable to obtain an accurate picture of immunization coverage in this department. I was just questioning Mrs Laetitia Buffet, who announced that in Seine-Saint-Denis more than 51% of the over 75s were vaccinated. But this figure is calculated on the basis of the number of people vaccinated in centres in Seine-Saint-Denis after making an appointment on Doctolib; Unfortunately, a significant part of them – not the thickness of a line, but a very large percentage – come from other departments. I therefore wonder what role the CPAM could play in a vaccination centre for the poorest. It is necessary to "go to" all people over the age of 75 who are unvaccinated and who do not have the necessary knowledge or equipment to use digital platforms, because for the time being, I fear that vaccination coverage is very low in our department, while it is once again among the most affected by the epidemic. That's a problem. Finally, as people come to be vaccinated with their vital card, I do not understand that they are not able to inform the prefects, or in any case the elected ones, about their residence, which makes it impossible to know the reality of the vaccination coverage of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u176	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u177	I agree with you, Mr. Member; I am so much so that this morning I called Stéphane Troussel who chairs the Seine-Saint-Denis departmental council. He told me that on paper, the coverage rate was good since 51% of people aged at least 75 were vaccinated; But are we sure of that number? Some residents of the department were probably vaccinated in Paris when others, living in the capital, were vaccinated in Seine-Saint-Denis. I therefore called Thomas Fatôme, Director General of the CNAM, to ask him, from the social security files, the data of the communes of Seine-Saint-Denis in order to answer the right question from Mr. Troussel. I don't have the answer yet, but I've placed an order to get it. I will give it to you in full transparency and associate you with the answer I will send to the chairman of the departmental council. Moreover, the CPAM of Bobigny has put in place steps to contact the inhabitants of Seine-Saint-Denis: this is a remarkable initiative, which we went to observe with the President of the Republic. Efforts are therefore being made locally, because, as you have said, the epidemic is very much circulating there, there is a great deal of neglect and there is a great deal of social inequality. We must therefore do even more for the Seine-Saint-Denis than for other departments. I promise you to answer your question as soon as I get the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u178	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-22-O1207.u179	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Debate on "Public debt: paying or canceling it? " The meeting is adjourned.
