ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u1	The president received a letter from Mr Ludovic Pajot, Member of Parliament for the 10th constituency of Pas-de-Calais, informing him that he was resigning his term of office as a Member of Parliament as of Wednesday, April 21, 2021. By a communication dated Wednesday, 14 April 2021, the Minister of the Interior informed the President that Mr Ludovic Pajot was replaced until the National Assembly was renewed by Mrs Myriane Houplain, who was elected together with him for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u2	The next item is questions on the review of the EQUALIM law and trade relations. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u3	I am pleased that, from this resumed session, we can question the Government in the person of one of its eminent representatives, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, whom I know to be serious and focused on. I am honoured, Minister, to ask you about trade relations. You remember that last March, at the request of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I submitted an information report on the follow-up to the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry on the situation and practices of large-scale distribution and its groupings in their commercial relations with their suppliers, a committee of inquiry which I chaired and of which Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau, Member of Parliament for Dawn, was the rapporteur. However, among the issues we had identified, some referred to measures taken under the EGALIM law – the law for the balance of commercial relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet – including the raising of the threshold of resale at a loss (SRP) and the supervision of promotions, measures which have generated well year wrong 600 million euros, a sum that could have gone up upstream, that is to say to benefit farmers. [[Mr GrégoryBesson-MoreauetMsBarbaraBessotBallotapplaudent]] However, during my fact-finding mission, I found that neither farmers nor even industrialists were able to say where those 600 million had gone. The question that I have to ask myself, and also to you here, is this: would it not be in the interest of us to develop a tool for the transparency of margin information, in order to ensure, in particular, that the measures taken bear fruit by raising value uphill, particularly to farmers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u5	First of all, I would like to thank your group for putting the follow-up to the EQUALIM law on the agenda of your assembly, and I would like to thank you personally, I have had the opportunity to tell you on several occasions, for all the work done with your colleague Grégory Besson-Moreau on this subject: the recommendations you make at the end of your information report are all more relevant than the others. Be assured that I have studied them with the utmost attention. You're asking two questions, the first about this famous resale threshold at a loss, the second about transparency. With regard to the new rules on the loss resale threshold, it is estimated that an additional EUR 600 million has been made available. A first study carried out last year shows that this sum has instead been redirected to operations of the type of loyalty cards and to the deployment of distributor brands – the famous MDDs. But today we do not yet have the capacity to know the "farm yard" impact, even though we already feel that it is not the one originally expected. We have launched a second study that will allow us to know this impact by the fall. This is indeed a question of transparency, because if such studies are necessary, it is because of its lack of margins. For me, the credo is clear: it is necessary to move from price wars to the transparency of margins, which is really going, at least I believe, in line with the conclusions of your information report, because it is this transparency of margins that must lead to a true diffusion of value creation throughout the agri-food chain, a process which we must strengthen by going even further, particularly in the context of the bill tabled by Gregory Besson-Moreau.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u6	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u7	The unfair remuneration of farmers is the crux of the problem to which additional problems come: I am thinking of the reform of the CAP – the common agricultural policy – against which, as you know, Oise farmers, as others, demonstrated, two days ago before the European Parliament in Strasbourg. I am also thinking of unfair competition, knowing that Article 44 of the EQUALIM Act is still not being applied, which leads us to import what is forbidden for our farmers to produce. And I'm not talking about overtranspositions. Remuneration, very little proportional to the work provided, discourages vocations, causes the death of our family farms and, sometimes, even physical death: a farmer commits suicide every day in France. It is a balanced, healthy and fair trade relationship that can bring about an acceptable remuneration for French farmers. But this is really not the case today! The need to change our law again is proof of the failure of the EGALIM law. It's good to recognize him. If the IDU and independent group wanted to put this topic on the agenda of this session, it is because we believe that there is an urgent need to put the work back on the job, to rework it collectively to correct measures that did not produce the expected runoff. Taking into account the evolution of production costs in trade negotiations was one of the advances of the EGALIM law, I admit, but what was to happen was that the expected indicators are too little used, due to the balance of forces between processors and distributors. During the discussions in 2018, some of us had asked that production costs be developed by the Food Price Formation and Margin Observatory to support negotiations on objective elements. The committee of inquiry on large-scale distribution, chaired by my colleague Thierry Benoit, proposed that the establishment of cost-of-production indicators should be made mandatory: this proposal has not been implemented. How do you plan to take these indicators better into account? Mandatory contractual terms between distributors and processors would be a major step forward, according to the report I mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u9	First of all, I cannot let you say that the EGALIM law is a failure. She's made some progress. As far as I am aware, no one in the agri-food world is asking for a return to this law, but it is very important to recall it. On the other hand, I agree with you on the rest of your remarks: it is a matter of putting the work back on the job. For if the EGALIM law has made changes, it must be supplemented – that was the whole meaning of the information report of your colleague Thierry Benoit – especially by going much further in transparency, in particular on production costs. This is the subject of the draft law of your colleague Grégory Besson-Moreau, which we will be debating from June onwards, which calls for more contracting, with full transparency on the prices of agricultural raw materials both upstream, so that they are non-negotiable, but also downstream so that they are mentioned in the general conditions of sale. This would lead to transparency throughout the entire trading chain from the outset. Without underestimating the sometimes very complicated legal recitals that this could entail – you are even better placed than me to know it as a parliamentarian – in the light of competition law – I am thinking in particular of the questioning of certain provisions voted in the framework of the law of modernisation of the economy, known as the LME law, and of European regulations, if we had the courage collegially to go in this direction and if this assembly adopted such measures, we would take a new step forward which, even beyond that achieved by the law of EQUALIM, would give the centre the transparency of the margins and therefore the distribution of the creation of value.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u10	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u11	In the framework of our committee of inquiry, Gregory Besson-Moreau and I had focused on purchasing centres and international power stations, known as services. However, I remembered that seven or eight years ago, I had tried with my colleague Charles de Courson, during the examination of the bill on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, known as the Sapin 2 Act, to put an end to this oligopolistic organization. The question still arises today: are we ready, in France, to limit the market share that a purchasing centre can have? That's what we were proposing then. Today, groupings are still possible, since the Autorité de la concurrence only intervenes aposteriori. Could we not, as we were also proposing, reverse the burden of proof of compliance with competition law, by providing for the obligation to obtain authorisation from a public institution, before any decision on consolidation is taken? The current situation places distributors in a dominant position. Finally, there is a need to distinguish between purchasing and service plants. In this respect, are you able to act at European Union level to ensure that the Autorité de la concurrence européenne is as interested in this issue as we are in France? We know very well that if some of the international power plants are hosted in Switzerland or Belgium, it is not by chance – everyone here understands me. There is still work to be done in this area at European level and I trust you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u12	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u13	The subject of purchasing plants is indeed essential. First of all, I would like to point out that we have already, even within the framework of existing legislation and regulations, greatly strengthened the controls carried out through the Autorité de la concurrence, and you are aware that we have succeeded in changing the nature of the grouping of two purchasing centres in relation to SMEs and that, for two others, very significant sanctions have been imposed, exceeding EUR 100 million. Together with my colleagues in Bercy, we intend to continue to focus very strongly on controls, because we also need the current law to be fully implemented before we think about strengthening the legislation in force. Secondly, I will lend myself to a difficult exercise by challenging MP Thierry Benoit, whose perfect knowledge and memory I know about this matter, especially since he has the reinforcement of MP Charles de Courson: this is, if I am not mistaken, not the Sapin 2 law but the law for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, known as the Macron law of 2015. I was working alongside him, and it seems to me that it was then that it was decided that the control of the Autorité de la concurrence would no longer be exercised solely aposteriori but also exante. The EGALIM law has also specified that it would not have two months but four months to analyse the setting up of the platforms and thus avoid the problems that you mentioned, Mr. But the fact that you are asking this question shows that the Government must be very vigilant in the implementation of this provision. I also confirm that we are discussing at European level the specificity of the agricultural world in terms of competitive rules. Finally, since this point has been debated, particularly in the context of the preparation of the Besson-Moreau bill, it is indeed the place of sale of the product that takes control and not the place where the purchasing power plant is located. It is very important to be able to guard against risks in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u14	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor for her second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u15	Mr Minister, it is now section 44 of the EGALIM Act that I wish to question you, because this is a real problem that farmers in my department often talk to me about. While this law has been able to produce a number of results, several important questions remain outstanding, including the application of its article 44, an essential point on which I have repeatedly been alerted by farmers in my constituency. However, the national representation has regularly questioned your ministry without obtaining a satisfactory answer! I would point out that this article has made it possible to introduce an Article L. 236-1 A into the Rural and Maritime Code, under which "it is prohibited to propose for sale or to distribute free of charge for human or animal consumption of foodstuffs or agricultural products for which plant protection or veterinary products or animal feedingstuffs not authorised by European legislation have been used or which do not comply with the requirements for identification and traceability imposed by that same regulation". While European and national legislators impose ever more binding standards on French farmers to meet environmental and health requirements, with several free trade agreements such as the MERCOSUR treaty – the common market of the South – or CETA – the global economic and trade agreement – they also allow for significant entry of products that do not comply with these standards. In other words, we continue to import what we forbid our farmers to produce. Section 44 of the EQUALIM Act should protect our farmers from this unfair competition. Its non-application is a source of anger and social injustice, as well as legal uncertainty, food insecurity and health risk, because we import products that do not meet our standards. On 31 January 2020, the Constitutional Council approved the ban in France on the production and export of plant protection products containing substances banned by the European Union. As a result of this decision, and by consistency, we should prohibit the import of foodstuffs intended for human and animal consumption whose production is not authorised on French territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u16	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u17	I've always said that the subject you're talking about is crucial. As you may recall, we have had a lot of debate in this regard in the context of the examination of the draft law on the conditions for placing certain plant protection products on the market in the event of a health hazard to sugar beet. There is an unhealthy hypocrisy in this matter: if we want to go even faster in the deployment of agro-ecological transitions, we cannot, at the same time, leave on supermarket stalls products that are in all respects similar to ours, but whose production standards are different. How can we act operationally? As we all know, Article 44 is a major problem: it is not in conformity with current European law. In addition, it means controlling food in France, even though we are in a common market. We have tried to improve it, particularly under the sugar beet law, in order to make it more effective. Nevertheless, we must look at the subject of mirror clauses. I have made it my political fight at European level, I cannot be more clear. We can no longer agree to allow products that do not comply with our production standards to enter the European territory. There are only two ways in which such products can be protected: whether they affect the health of Europeans or the environment in Europe. That is why I speak of hypocrisy: it amounts to saying "far from the eyes, far from the heart", or rather "far from my thought". If production standards have negative effects on the environment outside European borders, this will ultimately have direct consequences in Europe. I therefore made it the priority of action of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January 2022. The aim is to move forward on mirror clauses, which concern not only the European Union but also the World Trade Organisation. She is really the mother of the battles: you can count on my commitment on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u18	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u19	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u20	Two years after the adoption of the EGALIM Act, we can see the failure of its main ambition, which was to enable farmers to have a decent income and, above all, to rebalance the relations between large-scale distribution and producers. According to Coop de France, each of the last three years, the rounds of trade negotiations have led to a steady decline in prices: minus 0.4% in 2019; minus 0.1% in 2020 and minus 0.3% in 2021. Thierry Benoit – with whom we have been in a community of thought for many years – will agree: this failure is not really a surprise. Indeed, the EGALIM law does not address the source of the problem. The concentration of large-scale distribution should be effectively combated, in the name of a policy aimed at re-creating the conditions for true fair competition, where four purchasing centres occupy a dominant position – more than 80% of the market. The only Envergure power plant, which brings together Carrefour, System U, Cora and Match, alone accounts for a third of the market share. As Thierry Benoit also mentioned, the development of purchasing and service centres on a European scale, whose opaque functioning and action are largely beyond the scope of French legislation, is in addition to this. Faced with these giants, the producers count in thousands and struggle to organize themselves collectively to weigh in the negotiations. The Macron Act of 2015 had attempted to resolve this imbalance by making the establishment of purchasing plants subject to an obligation to inform the Autorité de la concurrence. The EGALIM Act supplemented the scheme by, inter alia, allowing the Autorité de la concurrence to issue provisional measures. However, these provisions are very easy to circumvent. They have no effect on existing purchasing centres – they only apply to new ones – nor do they allow the phenomenon of contractual internationalisation to be combated, whereas the negotiations conducted in this context have a direct impact on the prices applicable on the French market. Mr Minister, my question is therefore quite simple: what competition policy do you intend to lead in the face of these purchasing centres? Will you reopen, at Community level, the debate on the power of structural injunction, which allows competition authorities to control the degree of market concentration, regardless of any positive action on the part of one or more companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u21	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u22	Mr de Courson, you say that the EGALIM law is a failure, since prices have successively fallen by 0.4%, 0.1% and 0.3%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u23	A steady decline!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u24	The real question is: what would it have been without the EQUALIM law?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u25	The same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u26	I am not saying that the results of the EQUALIM Act are satisfactory. On the other hand, it has made progress. But the account is not there, hence proposals for evolution. Collectively, it is to be put to our credit: it is rare, within the same mandate, to pass a law, to evaluate its application in a trans-partisan manner and to put the work back on the job. I am not sure that concentration is the main issue. Of course, it induces the balance of forces. But the commercial relationship is, in itself, a balance of power. Even by tackling concentration, at the end of the ends, the balance of forces will always be unbalanced. As you said, there is a need for massive controls, including procurement platforms. The Autorité de la concurrence can become self-reliant, entrusts the Government with the task of self-recruiting. As you recommend, it is also up to the Government to bring this matter to the European level. This is what I am doing at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but it also depends on the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, and I can tell you that we are working in the same direction. However, the main problem in the negotiations is not just concentration. Above all, there is a game of dupes: when the breeder tells the industrialist that he wishes to increase his selling price, the latter asks for the large distribution, which wants to increase prices only if it is sure that the increase will be redistributed to the breeder. In the end, industrialists and distributors tell the breeder that neither of them wanted to increase prices. Of course, we must control concentration, but – as with everything in life – we will not be able to ensure that the weight of the upstream is equal to the weight of the downstream. On the other hand, it is absolutely necessary to stop this game of deception by resorting to transparency, as has already been pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u27	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u28	I associate Bertrand Pancher with my question. The EGALIM Act provides for a 10% increase in the threshold for the sale of foodstuffs at a loss and for the supervision of in-store promotions. In theory, this increase in prices had to cascade back to farmers and allow them to receive better remuneration. However, these measures did not have the desired effects: a study by UFC-Que Choir, dating back to November, revealed that the increase in the RPS triggered an inflation of food prices that increased the margins of the agri-food and distribution industry, without price appreciation for the producer. It is estimated that the annual amount of this surplus is between 550 and 600 million euros and its distribution among producers, the agri-food industry and large-scale distribution is unknown. As producers say they have not seen the colour, this amount has therefore been distributed between the large distribution and the agri-food industry, and rather to the benefit of large distribution, even if it depends on the sectors. Mr.Minister, in a debate in the Senate last April, you noted that the 600 to 800 million euros, which the increase in the threshold for resale at a loss had made possible, were mainly allocated to promotions related to loyalty cards, as well as to lower prices for distributor-branded products. My twofold question is: What are your proposals to ensure a more equitable distribution of the financial manna created by the increase in the RPS? What adjustments to the EGALIM law are you planning to make to prevent price wars from deviating from MDD products?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u29	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u30	My view of trade negotiations is based on a very simple concept, which is a reality: trade negotiations are a balance of forces. What can we do to cope with such a balance of power? First proposal: the upstream must be consolidated so that it weighs more heavily on the downstream. That's a certainty. However, even if we consolidate much more upstream, the downstream will remain ever larger in terms of the number of structures – this is evident in all the tracks. It is therefore necessary, but insufficient. Secondly, the State must play its full role in the balance of power by ensuring that trade rules are respected. That is why the sanctions have been multiplied. Last week, the Autorité de la concurrence communicated the number of checks carried out last year under the law on EQUALIM: they amounted to 15,000. In the first six weeks of 2021, the equivalent of six months of control of 2020 was carried out: the controls are well massed. The third element: how can we go further than the EQUALIM law? It is a matter of getting out of the game of fools that I have already mentioned and which, for lack of transparency, makes industrialists and large retailers agree on the farmer's backs. How? According to the economic theory of games, by instilling transparency, contracting, multi-annuality and freezing prices that must no longer be negotiated, in particular the price of agricultural raw materials. These four measures, applied together, must make it possible to reverse the balance of forces, thanks to the three stages of consolidation, controls and the additional step in relation to the EGALIM law, which will be represented by Gregory Besson-Moreau's bill if the Assembly votes it in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u31	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u32	Two years after the adoption of the EGALIM law, it must be noted that the hope aroused by the general states of food, and then by this law, has been long burning. If intentions were laudable, progress was more than insufficient. Many producers are still struggling to live in dignity from their work. However, they have consistently rightly claimed that the cost of production is the basis for price formation under contracts or framework agreements. But in concrete terms, the balance of power is always favourable to industrialists, and especially to large-scale distribution. The term food chain is perfectly suited: large fish eat the small; in Creole, "the big i manj the pti". Minister, what are you waiting for to complete the process and ensure that the workers of the sea and land are paid exactly? You will agree: it is inconceivable that a farmer, a breeder or a fisherman, instead of earning money, loses it when he delivers the fruit of his work. The first confinement has highlighted the absolute need for food sovereignty, and I have no doubt that you also want it. But our food security depends on our producers: give them the means to ensure it. They wait and despair to find meaning in their life of labor. According to the Mutual Farming Sociality (MSA), despair unfortunately pushes more than 370 farmers into suicide every year. However, the major agro-industrial distribution groups saw their profits jump with the health crisis. The runoff you promise doesn't happen; He's never gonna happen. Without taking into account production costs and imposing sanctions on those who fail to comply, the balance of trade relations will continue to be a vain promise. That is why we have already proposed several times the introduction of floor prices for our farmers, which you have rejected each time, the last time in the context of the review of the climate change bill and the strengthening of resilience to its effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u33	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u34	You are wondering how to ensure a fair price paid to producers. This objective is not a debate: we all share it. As I pointed out in replying to your colleagues Thierry Benoit and Charles de Courson, it is rare that, under the same legislature, a law be passed and then evaluated by the Assembly to give rise to a new legislative proposal to supplement it. On the other hand, the road to achieving the objective is not unanimous. You thus propose to fix, in the law, a floor price. This is a legitimate lead and, to tell you everything, we have done a lot of work to assess its feasibility. But in an economy open to competition and within the framework of a common market governed by a set of rules, the legal possibilities in this field are very limited. And then the agricultural world has already experienced examples of floor prices: all these experiences have ended badly. How can the objective be achieved if the solution you are proposing is faced with legal and economic difficulties? As I said in response to Thierry Benoit, rather than setting floor prices, we must, in the three-way relationship that characterizes trade relations, sanctify the price of agricultural raw materials. When farmers and industrialists agree, upstream, on the price of the raw material, it must no longer be possible to renegotiate it. This is what is happening today: it is the game of fools that I mentioned earlier, to which Grégory Besson-Moreau's proposal comes to an end.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u35	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u36	Minister, are you going to impose the integration of real production costs in the negotiation of contracts between producers and first-time buyers? In order to meet the demand of our producers, do you intend to set up a public arbitration at the end of the contract negotiations, the only way to make them fair for our farmers, farmers and fishermen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u37	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u38	Taking into account the actual costs of production is precisely the objective we set ourselves. There are several ways in which this can be achieved. Should floor prices be introduced? This solution is legally and economically complicated. Should this indicator be used to establish the upstream contract and to make the price of agricultural raw materials non-negotiable, as does the proposal for a law of Grégory Besson-Moreau? This is, I believe, the right way to change things. The reactions that have been heard since the tabling of this text show that it is able to move the lines and get out of the game of dupes that I mentioned earlier. As far as arbitration is concerned, I very much believe in this process. The EGALIM Act introduced the use of mediation. This year, the number of mediation cases increased by 40 per cent; But today we lack the tools to follow up on it. That is why, in the wake of the work we have done, the bill sets up, instead of mediation, a dispute resolution committee, with much more weight and powers, that can close the mediation and even take precautionary measures to resolve situations that are now blocked. The work that we have conducted and the proposals that have emerged from it therefore go well in the sense that you indicate, even if the path taken is not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u39	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u40	The EGALIM law has made a lot of ink since its promulgation in November 2018, and because: on it rested the hopes of our farmers, who are trying to live with dignity from their work. Yet she disappointed a lot. With this law, you wanted to play on all the tables: you tried to increase the value of our agricultural productions for a fairer remuneration, while not regulating commercial relations in national or international territory. Labeling our meats and making the exceptional sectors work is commendable and necessary; But at the same time we must not strengthen our relations with countries where restrictions are not the same and which impose unfair competition on us, as we have done in the negotiations on the free trade agreement with MERCOSUR. In the face of oxen with hormones and intensively raised, our charolaise farmers only have to stand well. We must also give our farmers and farmers the means to better defend themselves against large areas and intermediaries. Since the enactment of the EGALIM law, I have constantly drawn your attention to its shortcomings: article 44, the lack of will to pay our farmers with dignity and the lack of consideration of the consequences of global warming, the acceleration of international trade and unfair competition in France or abroad. I have always talked constructively with you. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] While you have announced that a proposal for a law "EGALIM 2" will be debated at the end of June on our benches, do you finally intend to regulate commercial relations, in order to assure our farmers the remuneration they deserve and to remove some of the doubts that are increasingly invading them, until you bring some, alas, to consider leaving the profession?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u42	I fully share your concerns, with one reservation: France – I say it again – is opposed to the free trade agreement with MERCOSUR, precisely for the reasons you mentioned. As I pointed out in my reply to Agnes Chill, the debate will only be fruitful if we can move the lines at European and WTO level. But it's not because it's a long-term fight that you don't have to take it with you right now. The French Presidency of the Council of the European Union offers us an opportunity to act. We have discussed this at length in the so-called trade sector, led by Franck Riester, in the European sector led by Clément Beaune, and in the agricultural sector that I myself am piloting, in order to grant us and to ensure that France pushes, within all bodies, for the introduction of the so-called mirror clauses in international economic relations. I will say more: this is not really a subject of free trade agreements. Whether the tariffs are at 0% or 15% does not change the final result: the presence in our territory of products that do not meet our environmental or nutritional standards. We have achieved some progress, two of which are here. First of all, in the framework of the CAP trialogue, we should soon achieve a decisive victory: the European Commission will have an obligation to deal with this issue and to propose a new regulation on mirror clauses. Secondly, by the end of the year, we should see a delegated act – that is, a European settlement act – on antibiotic resistance. Today, Ukrainian or Brazilian chicken continues to be imported, which is not at all high under the same conditions as in the Member States. We have been waiting for this decision for years, and it is on the verge of success. We are moving forward, but we need to go further in terms of mirror clauses: this is my priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u43	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u44	After the overall negative assessment of the EGALIM law, what prospects for the future? With the proposed law "EGALIM 2", you again promise farmers that they will be able to sell their products at a price that covers their cost of production. You rightly say that it is no longer conceivable that farmers are the only economic actors who agree to sell at a loss. However, this bill does not contain anything that would force stakeholders to make the cost of production indicator of farmers the basis of negotiation. However, many actors want to do so: this is the case, to name but one example, of Michel Biero, Lidl's boss. Is this not a real risk of creating a new disillusionment among farmers? In addition, one of the flagship measures of the text "EGALIM 2" is the non-negotiability of the price of agricultural raw materials. This price paid to the farmer must be mentioned in the general conditions of sale of the contract between the industrialist and the distributor, for full transparency. On paper, this measure is interesting, but its feasibility raises many questions. [[MM. Jean-PaulDufrègneetDominiquePotierapplaudent]] Let us be concrete and take the example of beef. The manufacturer sells to its distributor a specific volume of pieces of meat, e.g. chopped steaks, from several whole animals purchased from several breeders under several contracts, at different prices, freely fixed by the parties. What then is the non-negotiable tariff, which the industrialist will mention in his contract with the distributor? Finally, we always fall back on the same question: what will guarantee, with this device, a price paid to the farmer covering its cost of production?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u46	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u47	You're obviously right, but I'll return the question to you. We all share the desire to find solutions that go beyond the EQUALIM law. This law laid a foundation stone, forbidding the industrialist to negotiate with the large distribution before having negotiated with the breeder. It has changed the state of mind, but it has not sufficiently established the rules of the commercial relationship. You ask how to ensure that price non-negotiability will work. The bill must first be read in its entirety. Contractualization, transparency, consideration of the cost-of-production indicator, non-negotiability of the price of the raw material, the dispute settlement committee: all these provisions will be taken into account in a global dynamic and will provide a basis for change. The numerous feedback from industry on this text shows that it is moving the lines. On the other hand, what other solution do we have? Fixing, by law, floor prices for all types of products, for each carcass, according to the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u49	The answer is contained in the question. How could the law regulate the price of all productions, per piece, throughout the country? Such provisions would destroy more value than would produce. If we were to discuss such a bill – and I would be happy to bend to it – we would go on nights of debates about the price of such a carcase in such a type of territory. Last point: Mr Biero proposes precisely to introduce a transparent multi-year contract, which is the core of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u50	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u51	We have passed a strong law, but economic actors must take it. The ball is in their camp: that's what the President of the Republic said about the EGALIM law. After general states of food, which have made it possible to bring together and advance our agriculture in an unprecedented way; After a commission of inquiry into the relations between large-scale distribution, industry and the agricultural world, which highlighted unethical practices and a breathless model; after the synthesis work entrusted to Serge Papin; After hours of observation on the ground, which allowed us parliamentarians to become aware of the financial difficulties of farms, the observation is simple: the account is not there and the farmers' remuneration is in the red. Let's make it clear that the EGALIM law has, in the case of commercial relations, preferred "the contract of trust to the legislative constraint", but the trust between these three actors, namely distributors, industrialists and farmers, is broken. Neither the cost-of-production indicators, the loss-resale threshold, the contract-of-sale or the trade relations mediator managed to raise the bar. However, these tools put in place by the EGALIM Act are clearly supported because they are useful to the agricultural world. But as the constraint is not in order, the price war continues its slow destruction of value in all sectors. With nearly 150 parliamentarians of the majority and my colleague Thierry Benoit,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u52	Members of the majority and of the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u53	... I have therefore tabled a bill to put trade relations back on the right track, in order to "protect farmers' remuneration". These restraint tools – indicators of cost of production, non-negotiability of the cost of agricultural raw materials, mandatory and multi-year contracting and the establishment of a trade dispute settlement committee – will re-adjust the EGALIM law in order to guarantee remunerative prices to the farmer and accessible to the consumer. [[Barbara Bessot Ballot and Jean-Jacques Bridey applaud]] I would like to know the Government's position on this bill, its purpose, its ambition and its necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u54	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u55	I welcome the work you have done with many of your colleagues on this bill. It is very important, whether it is method or substance. On the method, we must, during this legislature, be able to take into account not only the advances of the EGALIM law, but also the shortcomings that persist, in order to fill them now. On the bottom, the balance you have found is probably the best possible, in any case it represents a significant step forward. We had until the beginning of the 2000s the Galland law, then came the law of modernization of the economy and, then, the law of EQUALIM. The LME law has resulted in the deflation of food prices on farmers' backs. The EGALIM law has changed the state of mind without going back to the fundamentals of the LME law, which, Mr President Chassaigne, does not provide for price fixings, nor does the Galland law, which laid a foundation, in a methodology for the construction of prices and the non-negotiability of this construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u56	Yeah, but I was talking about multipliers, I was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u57	Your bill, Mr. Besson-Moreau, provides for the reintroduction of these elements. This is very important, but on one condition: that the approach taking into account the contracting, transparency and setting up of a dispute committee be comprehensive. It is the whole chain that will make it possible to get out of this game of dupes that we are always confronted with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u58	Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u59	If it is a subject of importance for all French people, it is access to a healthy, safe, sustainable, quality and at the right price – at the right price, yes, because we know that it is urgent to achieve a sharing of value that does not crush agricultural producers under the weight, today unbearable, of agri-food processing and large-scale distribution. With the EGALIM Act, the majority and the Government have made this issue a priority, with the aim of improving and rebalancing trade relations. It is necessary to shed light on the darkness of the triple net and on the many abusive and insidious practices, which are unfortunately so widespread that their absence makes it an exception. We act with determination, if not obstinacy, with you, Minister, and some of our colleagues. With regard to the raising of the threshold of resale at a loss, which we have already mentioned, I do not agree: it is proven, despite some blind spots. But we have corrected the shot, for example in the foie gras industry, which does not obey the same market dynamics. The large distribution must make its butter not only on the backs of the small ones but also on the national brands. However, we must go further, faster, stronger. This assembly is about to do so very soon. We make it clear that the EGALIM law must not remain a dead letter or be circumvented. [[Mr. Grégory Besson-Moreau and Ms. Anne-Laure Cattelot applaud]] In negotiations with large and medium-sized areas, such as grocery stores, which are part of the dry sector, there is a document called value analysis sheet, which summarizes all production costs and the minimum margin, which become a threshold and a genuine transparency tool. This sheet is not mandatory, but it has become popular in trade between buyers and suppliers. It allows them to have objective elements during the negotiation. This practice should be generalized throughout the food sector in order to ensure transparency throughout the value chain. It would sacrifice the price to the producer. A standardized document would make control even easier. Minister, how do you intend to improve the transparency of prices in the food sector in practice?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u61	We must bear in mind that trade relations are a balance of power, which is currently unfavourable to farmers. I repeat, therefore, that the state must enter, which we have done through, in particular, the number of controls – I have announced the colour for a year. This balance of forces, whatever its size, must also be prevented. Indeed, waiting for the upstream to be as strong as the downstream to take years, since this could only be done at the cost of a very important upstream restructuring. We can consider it, but it is not her who will solve our problems in the next two years. How can we ensure that this balance of power is no longer unfavourable to farmers and farmers? The game of fools consists in finding each time a good excuse not to increase the price paid to the farmer: the large distribution claims that it was not certain that the industrialist would give back the price, while the industrialist argues that the large distribution refusal. In what is called the game theory – I hate the term but it is an economic concept – if all the players in the large distribution sector agreed at the same time to pay more, it would not be a problem for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u63	[[Mr. Grégory Besson-Moreau applauds]] That said, we are in a competitive economy and it is pleased that there are no agreements. Organizing an agreement would not only be contrary to the law, but would also be on the consumer's back this time. The only way out of this game of dupes is therefore to impose the greatest transparency, not in the eyes of the public but of the actors of this contracting – breeders, industrialists and large distribution –, with an indexing of costs and the non-negotiability downstream of what was negotiated upstream. That is the meaning of what we wish to undertake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u64	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u65	The agricultural world is made up of fighters, of people who exercise this profession out of passion, not to seek a miraculous remuneration. However, the fair price equivalent to the fruits of the work provided should go into farmers' pockets. This profession is indispensable to French society as a whole: it seems so obvious. Some have even come to reject marketing within large areas, focusing almost exclusively on short circuits and direct sale on the farm. This model, which I also support, cannot be the rule, because many of our fellow citizens buy their daily food on a large surface. While the price war has brought down the prices of products sold by 12% in ten years, the EGALIM law, passed two years ago, must allow consumers to combine purchasing power and fair remuneration of prices for farmers. I welcome and support the bill that my colleague Grégory Besson-Moreau has tabled and that we will be studying next June, because it will allow us to go further. Minister, I know that you are not giving up anything to improve farmers' daily lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u66	Ah, he's got fans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u67	The milk sector has put in place mechanisms that should be better known and extended, such as the compliant price, a tool proposed by the National Federation of Milk Producers (FNPL), which provides indicators to assess the basic price of milk sales. It was 0.35 euro per litre in March 2021. Thanks to this tool, it is possible to clearly identify the actors within the chain who are imbalanced in the distribution of the wealth generated by the agricultural product. The agricultural raw material cannot be the adjustment variable: I believe that all the banks agree on this point. [[Barbara Bessot Ballot and Grégory Besson-Moreau applaud]] What are you proposing to extend this approach to other sectors and thus obtain a fairer remuneration for all farmers and farmers in France? The EGALIM law has changed the situation but the trust between farmers, industry and distributors is too often broken and we will have to be firmer with those who do not share this change. Contruption and transparency must become the key words.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u68	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u69	The work we have done has not been theoretically based, but on examples that work. In the field of milk, the company LSDH, led by Emmanuel Vasseneix, a formidable person, has put in place tripartite contracts, multi-year and transparent, which allow a remuneration of dairy producers to match their production costs. This approach has existed for several years and continues to grow: other initiatives complement the scheme, such as the very beautiful initiative "Who is the boss? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, » We have analysed the reasons why these initiatives work. LSDH is a company that realizes profit, pays its employees, creates value and invests: its practice is therefore not to the detriment of its social interest. It acts for the benefit of the entire sector, because it has understood well that if it wants to continue to invest, dairy farmers must be in or near its territory. The work carried out with Grégory Besson-Moreau and Thierry Benoit, in the framework of the information mission and, now, in that of the bill, is aimed at extending the practices that work. Contractualisation, pluriannuality, transparency, taking into account an indicator of production cost, finally, making mandatory practices invented by precursors such as LSDH and which work, all this seems to me to be able to change the situation. It will take a lot of political courage and determination, but I am sure we will have it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u70	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u71	Many of us were alerted at the time of the discussions on CETA, particularly by concerned farmers, who relied on Article 44 of the EQUALIM Act. While I myself voted for this agreement between Europe and Canada, because I do not believe in the virtues of protectionism, I have nevertheless committed myself to the farmers in my constituency to be vigilant about the sectors that could be threatened by this agreement, particularly the beef sector. Four years after it came into force, what do you have to do with it? I would also like to ask you about the audits of the European Commission. Fragilities have emerged as investigations have shown that traceability is not always ensured. I think you've been very moved by it. How do you intend to strengthen – this is a basis for the agreement – controls between the countries involved?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u72	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u73	This very important issue concerns both the consequences of free trade agreements and the monitoring of their implementation. With regard to free trade agreements, we must get out of naivety. Within the framework of the common agricultural policy, all the countries of the European Union have agreed on an environmental transition base: the famous eco-schemes. We can no longer accept that a free trade agreement, whatever it may be, does not take account of agro-environmental transition and European standards. It's completely inconceivable. We are, therefore, working with Franck Riester, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness, to ensure that all free trade agreements include European production standards, which aim to protect the health and environment of our citizens. We could always say "far from our eyes, far from our health," but it would be naive or hypocritical. When we realized that the controls under CETA were insufficient, Franck Riester and myself, we immediately reacted to ensure, within a few days, that the services of the European Commission take the subject in arms. Secondly, trade policy in the framework of free trade agreements is not alone in question. More generally, there is trade within the WTO. Whether the customs duties are 0%, 5%, 10% or 15%, is it justified that a product that does not comply with our standards can be found on our children's plates at the canteen – the meat served there is imported at 50% – or on the stalls of our supermarkets? Clearly, the answer is no, hence the need to introduce mirror clauses into trade agreements. France is expected to win over antibiotics in the coming months, but we need to go even further. Since the first day, I have been fighting internationally. I intend to pursue it resolutely in the future, particularly within the favourable framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u74	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u75	In 2017, I had the chance to be rapporteur of the Assembly's Economic Affairs Committee on the EGALIM Act, promulgated on 13 November 2018. The aim of this law was twofold: to ensure a fair price for the producer by allowing him to live in dignity of his work and to promote a healthy, safe and sustainable diet. Since its enactment, this law has been constantly criticized on all sides. In particular, he was accused of not going far enough. I agree in part with this observation, but I would like to point out that this text has, for the first time, allowed a reversal of the method of calculating the price and a contract between the producer and his first buyer on the basis of production cost indicators. In addition, the Act created a number of legal tools for commercial mediation and its strengthening, prohibited the sale of goods at unfairly low prices and permitted the raising of the threshold for resale at a loss and the supervision of promotions. Finally, it has enabled the creation of ambitious cross-industry plans that create value throughout the food chain. However, a measure has not yet been completed, particularly in certain sectors, in particular beef and veal: contracting on the basis of production cost indicators. On this subject, our colleagues Thierry Benoit and Grégory Besson-Moreau have made several excellent proposals, some of which will be presented in the "EGALIM 2" bill. Clearly, the issue of contracting raises difficulties. Contrary to what we have heard many times, it is not runoff that underpins the EGALIM law, it is contracting. It is well known that, in order to benefit the farm yard, this law must promote contracting on the basis of production cost indicators. However, it remains very heterogeneous according to the sectors: some have developed it at 50%, or even 60%, 70% or 80%, when others do not even practice it at 10%. [[Mr. Grégory Besson-Moreau applauds]] In these circumstances, is the solution not to impose a compulsory contract between all sectors in order to force farmers to regroup and set up producer organisations to take production costs into account in sales contracts?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u77	Thank you, Mr Moreau, for your constant commitment to the fair remuneration of farmers. On this subject, contracting is obviously an essential aspect, even if it is not the only one. Contracts must be made on the basis of production costs and provide for the settlement of disputes by freezing the non-negotiability of agricultural prices: the aim is to ensure that downstream contracts do not call into question upstream contracts. However, contracting remains the cornerstone of the building built by the EGALIM law because, as you pointed out, as soon as there is contracting, things often go much better. The example given earlier by Mr. Chassaigne also illustrated the benefits of contracting. I also mentioned this by replying to Mrs Cattelot and mentioning the LSDH group. One of the major advances of the bill presented by Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau is that it continues the momentum of the EGALIM law by pushing it a little further. Under the EGALIM Act, contracting is not compulsory unless it is compulsory; the proposed law makes it mandatory, unless it is not. The order of proposals is therefore reversed in order to make contracting the basic rule, a rule which may be circumventable depending on the specific characteristics of a sector, which would make it impossible. The draft law enshrines contracting as the cornerstone of the relations between the actors. This has long been your wish, Mr Moreau, rightly, although, as you stress, this objective will be more difficult to achieve in some areas than in others. It's up to us to accompany them. In this regard, we must remember that we have fought for a €50 million envelope to be devoted, within the recovery plan, to the structuring of the sectors, in order to accompany them in the creation of value. On the subject we are discussing, "contracting" and "track" are probably the two main words.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u78	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u79	How can we debate farmers' income without talking about the sky that fell on their heads? Of course, I want to talk about the terrible frost that occurred in April. What is the burden, Minister, of the billion euros you have announced in the face of the 10 billion social contributions that farmers pay? Who will benefit from this exceptional envelope, for what rate of loss – 30%, 50%, 70% – and within what period? One year later, compensation for losses related to the 2020 freeze has still not been paid. Finally, what about partial unemployment for the most affected sectors, such as arboriculture? You should be aware that Members of the Republicans Group will always try to ask you the right questions and that we will be at your side to introduce real income insurance, which is now the priority for securing the career path of farmers, especially young people. If we want to continue to produce and consume locally in France, as well as to export these products, we must allow farmers to live with dignity from their work. It is therefore the income of farmers that is at the heart of our debate today. As everyone notes, the EGALIM law is a failure. The prices paid by the downstream still do not respect the production costs and the work of our peasants. The distribution continues to ruse by offering shock prices to circumvent abusive promotions, which are regulated by law. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] During the review of the EGALIM bill in 2018, neither the Government nor the majority wanted to follow us by imposing a binding nature on the cost of production indicators. Minister, are you considering doing so today as part of the "EGALIM 2" bill? Are you finally prepared, as we propose, to appoint a true sales officer and to provide him with sufficient resources to put an end to the fight against the pot of earth?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u80	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u81	With regard to the April freeze, which I thank you for mentioning, you may have noticed that we took the subject in arm-to-body. The agricultural world suffers and many of our farmers have both knees down, while they have fed the French since the first day of the pandemic. Our duty is to help them get up. So we took emergency measures and, as I had committed myself to doing so, I signed this very morning, 15 days after I announced it, the circular on the establishment of an exceptional solidarity fund – which shows you the reactivity of the Government. The threshold for offset production losses has been set at 30%, the threshold that farmers are accustomed to. However, we go further, since we plan for white years for social contributions. We are currently working with farmers to set precise thresholds and timetables for implementation. In this respect, you are quite right, Mr Brun: on average, in our country, it takes nine months to compensate farmers for agricultural disasters – it's just dingo, I can't say otherwise! Beyond the reform of the CNGRA system – the National Committee for the Management of Agricultural Risks – which I initiated before the April freeze, we must ensure that the first compensations for production losses reach the growers this summer. That is the objective I have set myself and you will see for yourself, when the time comes, if I have achieved it. We are thinking with farmers about down payment or advance payment systems, systems that we have already experienced in avian influenza management – little has been said then, probably because the system has worked well. Allow me a few more seconds, Mr President, to finish by answering Mr Brun, who, in fact, asked several questions in his question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u82	[[Smile]] I put six of them down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u83	So two last points. In the case of a commercial relationship gendarmerie, it is indeed indispensable and will be embodied by the dispute settlement committee. As for the need to freeze costs and production indicators, I repeat, we must ensure the legal strength of the measures we are taking – although the law is intended to amend the law – and their economic impact. Let us remember what happened when the law wanted to set prices. The law cannot do this, whether for legal or economic reasons; On the other hand, it must ensure that prices based on production costs cannot be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u84	Thank you for closing, Minister. For the sake of fairness, we must respect the time limit set for each speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u85	In other words, prices are negotiated between the farmer and the industrialist, but once fixed, they can no longer be changed downstream.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u86	Thank you, Minister, for this complete answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u87	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u88	Mr Minister, I have no doubt about your good will, and I also have no doubt about that of all our colleagues who have spoken. However, let me make myself the spokesperson for the dairy farmers in my department, the Yonne, especially the farmers of the farm that I visited a few days ago in the village of Parly, Puisaye. The question they ask us is simple: how to live when the price of a litre of milk is 33 cents of euro? The farmers of this farm told me that with only 5 cents more, they could get out of it, face their current expenses and finance the depreciation of their investments. With only 5 cents more, they could pay a pretty good income, located around the French median wage. At the present price of a litre of milk, they fail to do so. I am not a specialist in the matter, but I know that tools have been adopted. I can see that we are trying to improve the situation: we are talking about transparency, indicators and remunerative prices. Would it not be necessary, both legally and economically, to get out of the box and to imagine new solutions? Are we not, above all, faced with a problem of market organization? Charles de Courson referred to this earlier: is it not necessary to push a logic of differentiation at European level in order to reshape the market and, even from a liberal point of view, introduce a little more equality between market players, which today is characterised by a situation of oligopsone and a major imbalance in the price of milk? And if we fail to achieve this, could we not then adopt a floor price mechanism, in a frankly interventionist way? Even from a liberal point of view, such an approach is justified given the market structure. A system of floor prices, of remunerative prices, more regulated than today, would make it possible to reintroduce equity between the actors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] What we are witnessing in Yonne as in other departments – the Allier, in particular, the department of our colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne – is a very sharp decrease in the number of farms. However, this development will give rise to many problems at the human level, for the planning of the territory and, in the long term, for the sovereignty and economic independence of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u89	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u90	I share your point of view and your objective, honourable Member. For more than four years now, I have spent many hours in this Chamber and you know my state of mind. As we will soon be looking at Grégory Besson-Moreau's bill, be assured of my willingness to find the best ways to put an end to the situation you denounce. From this point of view, my approach is pragmatic and land-to-earth. We have identified cases where dairy producers are doing well and analyzed them to understand the reasons for their success and to try to generalize them. I was just talking about the sector that was formed around the LSDH group. Secondly – this is the second point – the organisation of markets needs to be improved. We propose to do so in the context of Grégory Besson-Moreau's bill, but we must also take into account what existed in the past. There was a time when there were milk quotas! They were removed, which caused difficulties, but if our distant predecessors so decided, they had reason to do so. Furthermore, it would be very complicated to introduce floor prices since we are in a common market. In addition – I go into the technical details of the device – the price of milk is subject for half to the local consumption market and half to the world price, because much of the milk produced is transformed into powder for international markets – I am simplifying because the reality is even more complex. Having said that, we are trying to find the best way to act as quickly as possible without leaving aside everything that needs to be done in the long term, especially at European level. It is the whole system that needs to be taken into account. In conclusion, your role as legislators is essential to complement the provisions of the EQUALIM Act; The role of the executive branch is equally important for their implementation. An industrial outburst in this area is also essential: when I saw what Lactalis did in order to obtain the annulment of the decree making the indication of the origin of the milk compulsory, the arms fell to me. Finally, consumers must also play a role: the success of initiatives such as "Who is the boss?"- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, shows that they are eager to participate in this dynamic that we all seek to create and strengthen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u91	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u92	The EGALIM law is two and a half years old, but we are many to note that the great law promised so much by the executive, unfortunately, does not materialize in the territories. There is no appeal: farmers still do not see the benefits of the general states of food, in which they have invested themselves largely and heavily. Their incomes have not been revalued while, for consumers, prices seem to continue to rise. Trade negotiations are still not more structured and sometimes even give rise to strong tensions. When I arrived in this House a few months ago, I told you, Minister, that farmers do not understand that nothing has moved after the EGALIM Act. Today, unfortunately, I understand why: the new legislative arrangements that we have adopted have, for the most part, not given rise to the expected implementing decrees. My colleague Barbara Bessot Ballot and I are responsible for evaluating the implementation of the transparency and labelling component. However, the various hearings we have conducted – I have also met with interlocutors in my constituency – show that a number of envisaged provisions are likely to turn away from the will of the legislator, and that several decrees have never been published by your cabinet. In addition, two articles that could have been immediately applicable – the law does not provide for a decree – are still not. How can you explain this to farmers? [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Last week, I told you, I met farmers from Maine-et-Loire. I confirm to you, if this is still useful, that their expectations are strong and their misunderstanding very great. The health crisis has clearly shown us that farmers are at the heart of our food sovereignty. It is vital that your department make all the provisions, including regulations, that allow the law to be applied as closely as possible to the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u94	I will answer your question very precisely, because it might suggest to those who listen to us that my department is not trying to enforce the law, which I would never accept. Having done the auditions you mentioned yourself, you know that very well. What is the principal decree missing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u95	Five are missing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u96	As you said, it is the one that relates to the origin of the products. This is a European competence. At the time of voting, the legislator knew it very well! The same problem also arises with regard to article 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u97	You didn't notify them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u98	We therefore had to notify the European Commission of the draft decree on the origin of products – we did it several months ago – to ensure that it was not cancelled on the day it was published, as it happened for milk following Lactalis' request. I pass the meandering of the procedure – you know them well: we must also ensure that the decree is compatible with other pieces of legislation – we can discuss it in detail. The Council of State has thus asked us to make changes so that it can finally be published this summer. So I tried to explain how the legislative process can come to an end, while you imply that my firm or my teams do not want it to materialize.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u99	Well, yes! There's a delay in notification!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u100	I can tell you that if there are people in the Republic who are fighting forcefully to enforce the EGALIM law, it is us! Not only are your assumptions not consistent with the reality of our action, but they also contribute to an atmosphere that is not good for anyone, suggesting that the administration would not want to enforce the regulations. I would like to discuss this with you, but many of the issues on which we are legislating here fall within the competence of the European Union: to be implemented, the texts voted on must be negotiated with the European Union. Let's go to the end, honourable Member, but I will not let it be said that we are blocking the application of the law, because it is not true: on the contrary, we are fighting for it to apply, especially with regard to the origin of the products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u101	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u102	I was present, and even very involved, when the EGALIM bill was debated in the House. I tell you at the outset: I voted for it. However, I had doubts about many of its aspects, particularly those relating to price fixing. I'd like to ask you about three of them. Firstly, in view of the lack of positive effects of the EGALIM law on the remuneration of producers, you have announced that you want to revisit another law, the law on the modernisation of the economy, which has in particular favoured the very large concentration of large distribution in France. I agree with that idea and I would like you to tell me, minister, how you are doing with this amendment and how you are thinking about it. Secondly, in my department of Aveyron, very many productions are made under controlled (AOC) or protected (AOP) designation of origin, or under protected geographical indication (PGI). To ensure their visibility and fair remuneration, they need two guarantees: first, the easing of public procurement, in order to promote local supply; Then real account must be taken of the reality of the costs, particularly in terms of the labour force. How do you intend to allow these improvements? Finally, in the reform of the "milk package", undertaken a few years ago, sheep's milk was treated in the same way as cow's milk. With regard in particular to producer organisations and their relations with industrialists, the frameworks have simply been transposed from bovine milk production to sheep milk production. By the way, the very original ecosystem that existed in the Roquefort Basin disappeared, while it was a very interesting interface between producers and industrialists. Some current provisions also block the possibility for producers to maintain an OTC relationship with those who process their products. They need to be answered, and I have recently asked you in writing about this. I conclude by telling you that we are waiting for you in the Aveyron: you will be able to observe there the damage of the frost that you know they have been considerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u103	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u104	Thank you, Mr. Viala, for your invitation to the Aveyron. With regard to the organisation of relations between sheep's milk producers and sellers, this question has an ancient and well-known history – I do not come back to it because you have it in mind. We must take this into account in finding ways and means to deal with it, without losing sight of the fact that it is impossible to do what the law does not allow. The second topic you are talking about is essential: making everything we do compatible with the LME law is the mother of battles! The EGALIM Act has been re-established on the principle of the LME Act, which itself has come to rebuff the cards of the Galland Act. By organizing trade relations without setting floor prices, the latter allowed trade negotiations not to take place at the expense of farmers. LME, on the other hand, has come to break this balance by allowing the balance of forces to develop throughout the whole negotiation, both upstream, between farmers and industrialists, but also further downstream, between industrialists and large-scale distribution. However, the EGALIM law did not call into question this operation: it changed the state of mind that prevailed without going back to the LME law. This is the question raised by the bill that we will soon be discussing: are we able to come back to the LME law, particularly with regard to the negotiability of agricultural prices? You're right to say that, that's the key point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u105	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u106	The EGALIM Act was passed almost three years ago. It has raised many hopes among farmers, especially in my territory, mainly for the rearing of Charolais cows. I would therefore like to ask you in particular about the meat sector. You have already had the opportunity to say this: it is a matter of sovereignty. The Papin report shows the importance of the beef sector in this area: it is particularly destructurized, particularly because of the predominance of some ultra-majority players. It therefore appears necessary to recast it entirely. How can prices really be built from the cost of production borne by farmers, in order to avoid sales at a loss, which is normally prohibited? We must pursue this objective and we must not be mistaken: what is at stake is also the dignity of farmers and their ability to live from their work. I would also like to refer to the principle of the so-called French, which requires compliance with standards which are not always of parliamentary origin and which may relate to production, slaughter or distribution. They make French products – that's true for beef but also for other meat – less competitive than German, Irish, South American or Canadian meats. We allow products to enter our territory that do not meet all the standards we impose on our own farmers. How can such a situation end? Finally, our farmers expect the Government to set a course for the development of livestock, their size and the production of meat. What can be answered to prepare for the future of French agriculture?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u107	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u108	Through the three questions that you are asking and at this stage in our discussions, it is possible to take a little step back to highlight what is the proper character of our agriculture, namely quality, both environmental and nutritional. Our debates go beyond the simple – o how complex – question of remuneration: they involve the even broader question of our production model. If we believe in the French model – that of quality – we cannot, at the same time, accept the price war, which is contradictory with an improvement in quality, unless we accept that the latter takes place at the expense of farmers' remuneration, in which case we would achieve a model that would not be sustainable: in the end, there would be no more farmers. The ensuing debate is therefore fundamental: it involves our quality model. It covers what you are referring to in your third question, with regard to the size of herds. No one knows – or too few people, because some people disseminate information that is contrary and false – that the average size of French farms is among the smallest in Europe and that it is not in common with what can be observed in Eastern countries, Asia or the United States. This is true not only for sows, cattle, but also poultry, which are on average three times smaller than in the rest of Europe, not to mention Ukraine, Brazil or the United States. For my part, I very much believe in the quality of the territory and the proximity. So we must fight against preconceived ideas – and God knows that there are many of them! – and to support the rise in quality through the CAP, the recovery plan or the best distribution of value within the framework of the EGALIM law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u109	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u110	The EGALIM law has not only given rise to the hope of rebalancing trade relations and paying producers better, but has also given rise to strong disappointments as long as the road ahead is still a long way to go. While progress has been made, such as the entry of a third of milk production into the negotiations, the cost-of-production indicator is far from being respected in many sectors, such as beef and veal. Producers seize the challenge of competitiveness and the structuring of the sectors. However, the additional costs associated with their response to the demand for upscaling often do not translate into additional remuneration. This is the case, for example, in the case of the cessation of live castration of pigs: this progress, recognised by all, of animal welfare creates difficulties of implementation, especially for local producers, and an additional cost entirely borne by the farmer. As far as their relations with distributors are concerned, farmers also report significant disparities: in the case of deliveries out of time, for example, late payment penalties are widely applied. They point out that cooperatives – which should provide a more secure framework for producers – do not have more cost-effective practices than other companies, which are the cornerstone of the EQUALIM Act. They express an urgent call for stricter State supervision, an increased role of the Ombudsman and stronger sanctions for non-compliance with legislation. In the wider context of the CAP, they also raise the question of the policy of regulating supply and demand, which seems indispensable beyond the budgetary allocation of European aid. After reading Serge Papin's report, farmers do not see what can really change things. They believe, however, that it is imperative to succeed in this law at a time of renewal of generations and maintenance of essential food sovereignty. Farmers hammer their demands for legislative consolidation in various areas: contract-making, transparency and securing the price of agricultural raw materials in trade negotiations; labelling of origin; establishment of a mechanism for resolving disputes; supervision of all forms of food raderies. In order for these tools to work, they explain, we cannot ignore the strengthening of cost-of-production indicators. We must certainly remain collectively attentive to the fact that there is no circumvention of the securing of the agricultural share of the supplier's tariff. It is about the sustainability of each of the links in our food supply chains and the competitiveness of a French productive fabric capable of responding to the challenge of food sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u111	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u112	The first part of your question is very revealing of a paradoxical injunction sometimes formulated by society. The Government takes this into account the strong societal demand for live castration of piglets that an order was made to put an end to this practice as of 1 January 2022. Who's calling for a stop to live castration of piglets? The consumer. The aim of this practice is to prevent meat from smelling, because the same consumer does not want to find a smell on his ham once in a while. Will he agree to pay the pig producer in such a way as to compensate for the induced cost of the suppression of live castration? That's the question. For the past year, we have been thinking about how to allocate this cost throughout the chain. Farmers have been paying for these paradoxical injunctions for too long. Stopping castration at high speed does not pose a technical or economic problem: it becomes useless if the consumer accepts from time to time to have a ham that feels a little stronger...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u113	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u114	[[Anne-Laure Cattelot applauds]] ...or, if not, the additional costs generated must be shared between the consumer and all the players in the sector. The law goes in the right direction, but everyone has a role to play: the legislator, the farmer, the industrialist, the distributor and the consumer. That is how we will move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u115	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u116	Minister, I want to warn you about farmers' compensation. All agree that the EQUALIM law has improved relations between farmers, agri-food industries and large-scale distribution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u117	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u118	... laying the foundations for a fairer negotiation for those who supply the agricultural raw material. However, it must be noted that the march ahead of prices has been slow, halted net by the health crisis and rising production costs. France continues to pride itself on its agricultural weight within Europe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u119	He's down a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u120	... but it does not provide all its farmers with a decent wage in terms of the human investment committed, that of a lifetime and, in many cases, at the cost of their lives. Farmers remain the most vulnerable professionals to poverty. They illustrate a paradoxical situation: cereals and wheat-free milk producers. In this area, the many challenges lie first and foremost in the conditions of supply structuring and the rules of the game of trade negotiations on products. In the inflationary context of certain matters necessary for operators, it is essential to translate into practice the incentives and intentions of the EGALIM law, making it more binding to develop and take into account the indicators of production costs in contracts. That is one of the objectives of MP Besson-Moreau's bill, which I support. It aims to introduce multi-annual contracts of three years, respecting greater transparency in the cost of purchasing agricultural raw materials by industrialists, and to ensure that they are non-negotiable with large areas. Another issue concerns farmers in the so-called intermediate areas, of which my department of Moselle is part in the development of France's National Strategic Plan (NSP). As recent demonstrations have shown, they fear that a tightening of CAP aid in 2023 will be in addition to the constraints of international market prices on their crop and livestock sectors. Minister, I would like to know what steps the Government intends to take to ensure that, as part of the development of the NHP, the reorientation of targeted accompanying devices will not leave any exploitation behind. I would also like to hear the Government's views on the provisions of our colleague Besson-Moreau's bill for implementation as soon as the next negotiations take place in January 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u121	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u122	With regard to this bill, I think I have shown my support when I welcomed the work carried out in the framework of the information mission led by Thierry Benoit, those of Grégory Besson-Moreau and other parliamentarians – many of you have worked on these issues. You also refer to the CAP, the national strategic plan and the inclusion of intermediate areas. Unlike most of my predecessors, I believe that the intermediate areas are a real political subject and must be treated as such. It must be remembered, however, that there was a first battle – budgetary – to be fought within the framework of the CAP: large amounts had to be obtained. In October 2018, the European Commission proposed indecent sums. Let us repeat: France has fought to increase very significantly – by almost 25 billion euros – the amounts allocated to the common agricultural policy, in order to keep them at the same level as in the past. It was not won and it is a victory of France. It is now a matter of allocating these amounts – EUR 9.5 billion – between the territories and the crops. If you decide to allocate more resources to one territory or one type of production, you will need to mechanically reduce those allocated to others. Keep this in mind. I am well aware that at the end of this process I will be the receptacle of everyone's complaints. It seems to me that I act with method and professionalism, with a focus on consultation. Nevertheless, any choice in favour of one will be made at the expense of the other. This is inevitable, knowing that the budget debate has already taken place and that we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u123	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u124	[[Smile]] We are among the last, but I hope that we will not be the least, minister, to question you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u125	The best for the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u126	The last will be the first!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u127	The workers of the eleventh hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u128	I was the rapporteur of the Sapin 2 Act, passed in November 2016. I was one of the rapporteurs of the Food Generals who delivered their copies in December 2017. In October 2018, we passed the EQUALIM law. The experience of 2017 made me cautious: throughout the winter, I had told in the general trade union assemblies – Young farmers, Peasant Confederation, departmental federations of farmers' unions (FDSEA) – that everything would change thanks to the Sapin 2 law because the price would now be built from the bottom. Like Thierry Benoit, André Chassaigne, Guillaume Garot and others, I had no doubt that we had not invented the machine to rebuild worthy prices for producers thanks to the law EGALIM. Reality has demonstrated this. In the light of our experience, our discussions and our work, I would distinguish three major levers – beyond the measures proposed by Mr Besson-Moreau in June – which are absolutely necessary and must be converged. First lever: a common market organisation, without which everything is in vain because unfair competition – both intra and extra-Community – would ruin internal regulatory efforts. Transformers are already asking you about the second lever: contracts must not only bind farmers and processors, they must also include distributors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u130	The citizen and society will thus be able to contract with the economy, without forgetting any of the links in the chain. For my part, I pay as much attention to the wages of the agri-food worker, the milk truck driver and the cheese manufacturer as to that of the milk producer. Tripartite and multi-year contracts are needed. Third and final lever: having solid Marxist bases, I think we need to build institutions, organizations, that is to say the protected designations of origin that we talked about during the debates on the Sapin 2 and EGALIM laws. We will make proposals in this direction in June when we consider the new bill. Like our colleague MEP Éric Andrieu, we believe that PDOs should benefit from specific provisions, be provided with the means to build prices but also volumes in large, coherent regions and ecosystems. Who builds prices without volumes mocks the world and the people. The peasant people now need to be recognized by the fairness and dignity of their prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u131	We have to go further anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u132	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u133	[[Smile]] Very nice transition, Mr. President Chassaigne! With regard to the single CMO regulation – the common organisation of agricultural markets – I agree with Mr Potier, as I have said on many occasions. However, Mr Potier is well aware that the tripartite contract is governed by competition rules different from contracting. While contracting must be imposed, we must go as far as possible in the area of tripartism – we will debate it – that is to say, up to the limit where the risks of cartels may arise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u134	We have to blow up the locks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u135	With regard to the constitution of PDOs, of which I am also a fervent advocate, I note that Mr Potier did not mention a minimum price.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u136	Yes! He's a social democrat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u137	Hence the request of President Chassaigne to go further!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u138	[[Smile]] Don't divide the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u139	[[Smile]] No, I'm looking for the union of the left and not their division, Congressman! Let me stress one point, since we all know each other well and work in confidence, regardless of our political affiliation. There would be nothing worse than making the agricultural world believe that such a system is working, when it is not, or is not, impossible in a context that is not only national but that of a common market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u140	Volumes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u141	Trade rules are the most important issue: it cannot be argued that the law could guarantee sector-by-sector floor prices. You know that very well, Mr. President Chassaigne. If it were feasible, MP Potier would have proposed it – but again, I don't want to divide anyone...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u142	Someone before told you I wanted Cuba without the sun!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u143	It was Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u144	We must go as far as possible while remaining very clear on what is feasible or not, because going as far as possible requires creating all the dynamics that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u145	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u146	This discussion has been of good quality, Minister. Everyone today recognizes that the EGALIM law as passed does not meet the objective set for it because farmers and producers, in general, rightly consider that they are not paid for their work. We did not pass this law, considering that it would sow illusions. Well, here we are. You yourself, in the Senate, minister, felt that the account was not there. So the question is what we can do now. Mr Besson-Moreau's bill, if it can improve things, will be helpful. However, I would like to draw your attention to the role of Parliament. We will be discussing this bill in June, that is, even before we have a precise assessment of the substance of the EGALIM law in the autumn. However, we need an accurate, objective assessment of the legal shortcomings in the distribution of profits, of the margins between producers, processors and distributors. Then, in what way will we guarantee the producer that he will be able to live well from his work? We need transparency, it is obvious and it has already been said, but also fairness, which goes without saying but which goes better by saying it. In other words, in concrete terms, how are production costs actually taken into account? How do we manage to secure the agricultural share of the price? In short, how can we rebalance the balance of power between producers, processors and large-scale distribution? Mr Benoit has mentioned this, avoiding circumvention – I am thinking of the practices of the purchasing power plants which weigh at European level. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will not be able to achieve lasting solutions, we will not be able to weigh prices if we do not impose a regulation of volumes, a regulation of production at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u147	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u148	I will not go back to the issue of the evaluation of the EGALIM Act, Mr Garot, except to recall that the report of the fact-finding mission and the elements at our disposal are not exhaustive: as I said, with regard to the threshold for resale at a loss, we will only have a second assessment in the fall. In any case, the evaluations show what worked and what didn't work – and thus make it possible to correct the shot. In other words, we must not wait for a new evaluation to legislate again. And if we really want to weigh on the next trade negotiations, which start on 1 October, we need to move forward quickly. Secondly, with regard to guarantees, I will not go back to everything we have already mentioned this afternoon, but I will repeat that our objective is to go as far as possible. The law of modernization of the economy has been a turning point. It is based on what I believe is a mistake: we then thought that, in order to preserve purchasing power, we were going to establish a balance of forces, a competition throughout the food chain. The context was different, of course, and if the EGALIM law did not come back on the LME law, the Besson-Moreau bill, it will do so on the prices, upstream, of agricultural raw materials, but not, at the moment I speak to you, on the industrialists who, remember, before the coming into force of the LME law, were obliged to offer each distributor the same price, even if they had to justify another price on arrival, which led to the practice of the rear margins. As far as volumes are concerned, you can understand them in two ways: either with the objective of supporting prices or to stop them. We need to be very careful about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u149	Precisely: that's the regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u150	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u151	Minister, our food sovereignty depends on our agricultural model – which is admired around the world. The subject of this debate shows that we need to preserve this model more than ever before, that of farmers, farmers, who are shown daily by their work, their innovations in order to turn to an agriculture that is more environmentally friendly. I am from Cantal and everyone knows how high the village of Sallers has brought the excellence of beef. I was rocked in this love of the earth and respect for the living. But, Minister, this model must pay our farmers at the right price: we must show them that their work and efforts are essential. Our food sovereignty rests on this work and it will soon be in danger if we do not act quickly. The Group of the European People's Party will, of course, support any bill designed to develop and improve the EQUALIM law, but we need to go further than just pay matters. More generally, we must respond to the haemorrhage of the countryside and once again attract young people to farming. The figures are here: the number of farmers has been divided by four in 40 years; Almost a third were over 55 years old in 2016 and half of them will retire in the next five years. So can you tell us how we will succeed in maintaining our food sovereignty and our agricultural model in the face of this deep crisis, beyond the only question of remuneration, which is crucial? The recovery plan has been very well received and it is still very much in demand: will you step up this support again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u152	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u153	I'm not from the Cantal, but if you know what I mean, I've become an adoptive child. I therefore share your commitment to this territory. The broad question that you raise is, in fact, the keystone of our success: the renewal of generations. Half of the farmers will retire in the next five to seven years. So, in 2025, 2026, 2027, will we be able to convince the young people of France to take over? This will be, I insist, the criterion for the success of our policy. "The entrepreneurs of the living who feed the people", as I like to define them, do their job out of passion: precisely that of fulfilling this noble mission of feeding the people. But passion cannot and cannot replace remuneration. That is why it is essential that we debate it, as we are doing. There is also a need to ensure the safety of farmers in the face of the hazards of climate change and to find ways and means to establish real crop insurance. We must therefore never lose sight of the singularity of our agriculture and we must fight against all those who seek to denigrate it by amalgamating its products with those made elsewhere and who are far from achieving the quality of it. In short, it is a matter of reconciling different points of view around this notion of quality. We will launch, from the end of June, a large communication campaign on the entrepreneurs of the living, a little on the model of what the army had done on the theme: "Get involved! » We will thus highlight these beautiful entrepreneurship jobs in the lifetime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u154	Not too much com' anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u155	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor again on what will be the final question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u156	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The French agricultural model is very envious, as I pointed out, powerful at European level, and it exports itself. The global health crisis has weakened international trade and its consequences will continue to be felt for a long time in sectors such as agri-food. I would like to ask you about trade relations between the European Union and Africa. The covid-19 pandemic has shown the need for a stronger partnership with Africa. The impact of the virus on rural populations requires a global response. The aim is to help companies rebuild themselves in a sustainable way by securing production systems – including food. If the health crisis has delayed the sixth summit between the European Union and Africa, to be held in October 2020, the next edition, scheduled for 2021, will have to define a new global strategy with Africa, based, in particular, on the green transition. Indeed, Africa has a wide variety of agro-ecological areas that are a huge asset and challenge for the continent's agricultural development. Trade relations between the two continents are increasingly dynamic, which means that we must continue and strengthen our cooperation to meet many global challenges facing us. Agriculture is one of them, which is an essential part of the economies of all African countries. Africa has already become aware of all these environmental issues by deploying a series of important initiatives that I would like to welcome. I am thinking of the Green Morocco Plan, launched in 2008, which the cherished kingdom must consolidate through Operation Generation green 2020-2030; I am also thinking of the FILAHA 2019 plan in Algeria; Finally, I am thinking of the iconic Great Green Wall Plan, a flagship initiative of the African Union that the President of the Republic is constantly promoting and aimed at combating the effects of climate change and desertification in Africa. Will the agricultural side therefore be taken into account, and in what way, in the future EU-Africa Summit?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u157	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u158	Yes, and it's essential to me. We talked about this with the European agriculture ministers a week ago. The Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development called for meetings to be held with a number of European and African agriculture ministers prior to the EU-Africa Summit. It happens that I have completed my studies in dating palm fields in Niger. I then had the opportunity to work hard with the African continent, in particular to prepare for the Africa-France summit in 2013. I also lived in Egypt, still in connection with the agricultural sector. So I was able to understand all these subjects on the ground. The potential for cooperation between the European Union and Africa is not only very great, but it is, I repeat, essential. Just take the question of carbon capture in the soil: well, we need to develop cooperation in this area together. Take the Plan Grande mural verte, defended by the President of the Republic: it is essential to combat desertification at the same time, to revive production in several sectors and to strengthen economic and agronomic cooperation – all this without forgetting the fight against climate change. It is within our reach because there is political will on both sides, a will that enjoys a very strong impetus from the President of the Republic. Yes and a thousand times yes, therefore, to this cooperation. Part of the future of the European continent is undoubtedly to look at Africa, including agricultural cooperation. In any case, I will fight to be one of the actors, as the President of the Republic wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u159	The part of the session on the review of the EGALIM Trade Relations Act has been completed. I would remind you that the next debate, on the review of the EQUALIM law on farmers' compensation, will be held in the Lamartine room, where we will meet at 18:15, in order to hear from outsiders, after which you will join us, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u160	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u161	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u162	The next item is the debate on the review of the EQUALIM law on farmers' compensation, requested by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. At the latter's request, he is held in the Lamartine room so that outside personalities can be interviewed. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. It will begin with an hour-long round table in the presence of guest speakers, to whom I welcome. Then, after hearing an introductory statement from the Government, we will hold a question-and-answer session of one hour's duration as well. The duration of questions and answers will be limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Thank you to the three speakers present for this exercise. Each of them will begin with an intervention of about five minutes. Mr Philippe Chalmin, President of the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Margins, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u163	It is a great pleasure for me to respond to your invitation and to be able, on this occasion, to present to you the Observatory on the formation of prices and margins of food products, which I have had the honour of chairing for the last ten years – I exercise my last mandate in this capacity. The Observatory is an administrative commission, under the dual supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. We bring together, around our table, all the families directly concerned with the fate of agricultural products, from the field to the plate: producers, industrialists, distributors, traders and consumers. The report submitted to you presents the peculiarity of having been adopted unanimously by the stakeholders. This consensus is the result of a relatively long process, in which we sometimes have a lot of discussion, but I believe that it makes this document a reference report, the only flaw of which, I agree, is that unfortunately we are developing it by looking somewhat in the rearview mirror, to use the expression used by one of you in a previous debate. This may prevent me from answering some of the questions you are asking about the first assessment of the EGALIM law. Thus, the document you have before you is the Observatory's 2020 report. The last meeting of our Steering Committee to finalize the 2021 report will be held on 19 May. So I should be able to provide it to those of you who will be interested by the end of the month, even before the press conference. But while this report will of course include all the elements collected in 2020, some of them will cover the year 2019 or even 2018. For example, with regard to the net margins achieved by large-scale distribution of products sold on fresh shelves – one of the important indicators of the report, as it brings great transparency in this area – we will only publish figures for fiscal year 2019, pre-pandemic and very little affected by the entry into force of the EGALIM law. We strive to follow, for the vast majority of the major sectors of fresh products, the path of a product from the field to the base: agricultural prices, prices of products from the first and then from the second processing and prices to consumers. We then proceed to subtractions to obtain the gross margins. This part of the work is quite easy, as France is fortunate to have a relatively developed statistical apparatus. Things become more problematic when it comes to moving from gross margins to net margins, i.e. analysing production, processing or logistics costs. We do this by collecting data at the stage of agricultural production, by collecting the figures provided by certain industries – but not all: we discuss for example with the dairy industry to obtain elements relating to the net margins achieved in the main trades that make up it – or by compiling the net margins of the large distribution. The Observatory is primarily a place of cooperation, which helps to make markets transparent. What more can I say for the next few seconds? In general, at the present stage and in view of the elements of which we are aware, the effect of the EGALIM law has remained relatively limited, especially since the year 2020, you will agree, was exceptional, since it has resulted in a change in the eating habits of the French. The disappearance of out-of-home catering, in particular, has profoundly changed their patterns of consumption and purchase of food products. If you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'll take another minute...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u164	No more, because we must give Members time to ask you questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u165	... to change the hat and to express myself, not as president of the Observatory – which must remain perfectly neutral and be content to bear the voice of the institution it represents – but as professor of universities which, like any good academic, can sometimes make disturbing remarks. I have always been, as an academic – perhaps of somewhat liberal obedience, as Mr Chassaigne believes – very reluctant to the widely invoked notion of "rewarding price". What is a remunerative prize? Quite frankly, I do not know, as any average remunerative price applies to an extraordinary diversity of holdings. The Centre, of course, calculates average production costs in its report. But we know that this average can cover totally different situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u166	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u167	On the other hand – this is an important point – we have in any case experienced a real revolution over the last ten years, namely the end of the common agricultural policy: the prices administered have been replaced by market prices, which reflect the balance between supply and demand that prevails at a given time. Such a prize is neither remunerative, nor moral or immoral, nor just or unjust.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u168	Thank you, sir. We will return to that during the questions. Sophie Devienne, Professor of Comparative Agriculture and Agricultural Development at AgroParisTech.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u169	Having worked extensively on the development of agriculture in France and in other countries, I will take a little historical step back on the issue. For the past eighty years, obtaining remunerative prices has been a constant demand from farmers. Perhaps it is useful to look back at the variables that determine agricultural prices. They do depend on supply and demand, which lead to microvariations on a scale of a few years, as well as on the sharing of added value within the sector. In the longer term, however, the evolution of agricultural labour productivity, both in France and in competing countries, plays a central role in price developments. Public policies, more or less regulatory – they have been less and less so for the last ten years, with strong consequences for prices, which are changing in a rather brutal way – are also taking place. Looking at the evolution of labour productivity, which has a strong influence on the trend in prices, we can see how fast it has been since the 1950s. The post-war situation in all French regions – balanced systems of polyculture and livestock farming, which are now said to be autonomous and economical – has been the subject of two major successive agricultural revolutions, which have had important consequences. The first, in the twentieth century, was the motorization, chemistry, genetic selection and adaptation of cultivated ecosystems. Farmers have combined these elements by showing a predominant trend, namely the search for an increase in the volume produced per agricultural asset. This increase was made possible by the acquisition of increasingly efficient equipment, by an increasing specialization – which became necessary to make investments in equipment profitable, but also made possible by the purchase of inputs replacing the complementarities between crops and between livestock and crops – as well as by a simplification of work. This resulted in an increase in farm area, in the number of animals per asset and in yields per hectare and per animal. This increase in labour productivity, which is based on the growth of capital per asset as well as on the substantial use of inputs, tends to accelerate under the influence of a new revolution, which is still incomplete: that of digital technology, coupled, in some countries, with that of GMOs – genetically modified organisms. The fact that operators of family structures, under favourable agricultural policy, invest in an attempt to increase or maintain the remuneration of their work has led to a very rapid increase in productivity. Moreover, it is not sufficiently said that the increase in the physical productivity of agricultural work has been stronger since the 1950s than in any other sector of the French economy, reaching 5% per year. But the laws of the economy are clear: when labour productivity increases, prices fall. As a result, prices of agricultural products have changed unfavourablely compared to those of the means of production, which come from sectors where the increase in labour productivity was less rapid. What are the consequences for the agricultural sector? As a result, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies (INSEE), there has been a steady decline in value added in constant currency since the mid-1970s. As the agricultural branch increases its intermediate consumption and uses more and more capital goods, and since prices of these goods do not fall as much as those of agricultural products, it follows that the wealth created by the agricultural sector, i.e. the share of value added in relation to gross product, continues to melt. While it reached 40% of the value of final production until 1970, it stood at 35% between 1980 and 2000, before falling to 25% since 2010: the wealth produced represents only a quarter of the value of the product. This added value must then be redistributed and distributed between the cost of land, the remuneration of external labour and the payment of interest to the bank, in order to achieve agricultural income, which is maintained both well and poorly thanks to subsidies – which also tend to decline in constant currency. As value added and income decline in constant currency at the level of the industry as a whole, in order for the industry to maintain itself for the assets, fewer and fewer people need to share the cake. That is what we have been seeing continuously since the early 1950s. With this price scissor, a farmer who does not invest in trying to increase his production volume is mechanically reducing his income. This trend is heavy and there are still reserves of productivity growth. A remunerative price is essential, as farmers should not be allowed to receive price shocks that can be brutal; However, it is not sufficient to maintain their income. Market regulation is therefore necessary in order to avoid the price shocks that we have been witnessing over the last ten years. It also concerns the land market, which I will be able to return to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u170	Thank you, we will come back to that when questions are asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u171	Finally, I would add that the agro-ecological transition is a real chance, because the use of organic regulation will help to reduce costs and preserve a high level of value added within the gross product.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u172	Mr Guillaume Gauthier, a cattle breeder in Saône-et-Loire, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u173	It's hard to sum up a breeding life in five minutes, but I'll get to it by showing you my farm quickly. I am a carolaise breeder in Saône-et-Loire, in a GAEC – joint farm farming group – of five partners. It's a family GAEC where we're all cousins; I am the third generation of breeder and my little cousin, who has just settled, is the fourth generation. My farm fills, I believe, all the boxes of the "good" model, not because I raise charolaises – which still deserves to be put forward – but because all the added value of the animals is so to speak made at home. I myself feed all my animals, both females and males, especially young cattle – I will come back to that. The farm includes as much grazing as possible and I am self-sufficient in cereals. I push all my animals to the end, except perhaps the males, for whom it is difficult to be self-sufficient; This is what penalizes me, even though I am convinced that the added value is captured when I leave the stall. The GAEC Ilagri has always been a member of a cooperative. We always point out that farmers are poorly organized, that they do not know how to structure themselves. Despite this, the majority of herders have joined the cooperative system. This means that they believe in the values of cooperation and working together. On the other hand, a small part of my production is sold on direct sale: in recent years, I have had a shop at the farm in which I sell some animals – you have to be realistic about it, I am in the Charolais basin and there is no big metropolis near me. Finally, since it was debated during the general states of food, I am approved Red: the feeding of my animals is obviously without GMOs and, essential point for the young breeder that I am, they graze between eight and nine months according to the weather. If it could be longer, it would be nice, but it's complicated when there's no grass. So on paper, I think I check all the boxes of the sustainable model that everyone wants. In recent years, I have been a member of Interbev, the national interprofessional association for livestock and meat. I am therefore familiar with the sector plans, the general statements of food and the discussions that have taken place on production costs. Despite a complicated 2020 year, for the reason you know, beef consumption has increased. However, prices did not follow this increase, they even fell sharply for young cattle and males. I want to tell you about the real life of a farmer who was part of an inter-branch who, because he had a few responsibilities, believed hard as an iron to the general states of food. Even when my breeders didn't believe in it, I defended them, and I still think the idea was good. Perhaps it is because of my youth of the time – I am no longer so young today: I thought we were going to fight to set prices that would cover the costs of production. To answer you, Mr Chalmin, I know what a remunerative price is: it is a price that covers my production costs. Interprofessional work has been hard on it. We held large meetings and even met with the mediator several times to develop the methodology for calculating the cost of production indicator. In spite of this, if everyone agrees within the inter-occupation to make a very nice communication on the Red label, as you could see on television, as soon as it comes to bringing a part of the price back to the world of breeding, and especially to the breeder, some families oppose it. Since all decisions must be taken unanimously, there is no advance on the remuneration of farmers. When it comes to the life of a co-operative farmer, we also think that if we are better structured, we are going to sell our animals better, so we trust the tool that the co-operative is and the values that it defends. In 2020, the market seemed favourable; I thought, three years after the general states of food, we were going to conclude contracts that would finally allow us to sell our animals at prices worthy enough to pay us. But, in hindsight, my cooperative could not, or perhaps would not, conclude such contracts and put the label of my animals forward to bring me value. I don't know if it's the cooperative's role to sell the animals; They collect them, but when it comes to sales, it's more complicated. I speak to you clearly: I am not used to doing wood tongues. It was a big disillusionment: three years after the sector plan and the general states of food, there is not much that has advanced in my farm yard, to the point that my father, who is 74 years old and who still works a lot with me, like my uncles, calculated the loss to be earned between the selling price of my animals in 2020 and the cost of production: it is one euro of the kilo for the carcass, that is 150000 euros for my farm. Finally, with regard to my life as a feeder of young cattle, what penalizes me from the point of view of food autonomy, especially for proteins, is to have young cattle from which I want to capture the added value to the end and to be proud to produce a French diet, because I do not go back and forth with other countries. But prices have been very hard. It is said that we must no longer export the broutards to Italy and consume them in France, habituating the palace of the children to eat of the male; This means that 800,000 animals will arrive on a market that is not already remunerative for me. I would like to conclude on a very important point. I am 36 years old, and I see that some young farmers still want to settle, but in my department 1,400 producers will retire in the next five years. There are eighty youth facilities per year: eighty times five, that's four hundred, if I'm not too bad. So there will be a thousand missing. You've talked a lot about regulation; Well, I want regulation, too. I want us to regulate our markets and, clearly, to fix a price. We cannot create a set of constraints – which we have accepted and which we are proud to defend – on the prairies, the environment and the sustainable, while exposing ourselves to a world market without doubt very liberal that imposes on us the competition of foreign prices and US feedlots of 30,000 animals. That's not possible. I can assure you of one thing: I'm not ready, in Saône-et-Loire, to make a feedlot. Either I sell my meat properly while respecting our environmental and biodiversity values, or I stop working because I don't want to use hormones or antibiotics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u174	Thank you, Mr. Gauthier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u175	Even if this is not part of the debate, you will have understood that my income is very low. So when we talk about the reduction of coupled aid in the CAP – the common agricultural policy – I am shocked by that. What I get from the CAP on my farm is the income I get; If coupled aid is reduced in the CAP, I no longer have any income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u176	Thank you for your testimony. We come to the questions, for which some of you have already registered. Each question will be immediately followed by an answer, to give spontaneity to the exchanges. We will try to question our three guests in turn. The first speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, who chairs the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left on the initiative of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u177	I thank our three guests, whose complementary interventions confirm, in my view, that politicians are fleeing their responsibilities by referring the question of the remuneration of those who feed us to the goodwill of the actors in their sector or to the interfaiths. Now that the strategy of the accountability of the channels attempted by President Macron in the framework of the general states of food has failed, is it not time, in your opinion, that the state intervene in concrete terms to guarantee prices covering at least the costs of production, without omitting the remuneration of the producer? This leads me to ask four specific questions, which you may answer as each of them intervenes. First question: in concrete terms, based on your experience, your findings or your research, what are the obstacles to price regulation? Second question: do you think that changing practices, production patterns, productivity and contracting can produce results without price regulation, in a context where competitiveness is established as a golden rule? Thirdly, even if the answer has already been given: do you think that remunerative prices are sufficient for themselves? It would be interesting to have more details on that. Last question: do you not think that the only solution is to change the rules of competition at European level to regulate production and prices? How do you think this evolution could be achieved?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u178	Mr Guillaume Gauthier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u179	I will not dwell on the administrative aspect of regulation, but it is clear that we want it. It may not be enough, and price frameworks may also be necessary to provide a comprehensive response. As far as the rules of competition are concerned, I repeat: on the one hand, we cannot adopt rules to protect biodiversity in livestock areas, as we have agreed to do with pride, and on the other hand, we cannot impose a price because of the rules of competition. Moreover, this is not necessarily what we want: we only want our production costs to be covered. As for how this can be achieved, it is a question that the public authorities will be able to answer better than I am. On productivity, I think we have already done a lot, and it is difficult to do more if we want to preserve biodiversity, which we are happy to do. We can't step up any more. We'll never be able to compare models. The Minister for Agriculture and Food said very skilfully that there were no intensive farms in France, and he was quite right. We are far from what our neighbours are doing. I am also strongly committed to contracting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u180	We will return to these issues in other statements. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u181	My question is for the three speakers; I already put it to the minister earlier. The experience of the Sapin 2 law, of which I was rapporteur, that of the general states of food, for which I facilitated a workshop, and that of the EGALIM law made me sceptical. The only things I now believe in are, on the one hand, a reform of the COMs – common market organisations – to protect us from intra- and extra-Community competition in the context of fair trade, on the other hand, tripartite contracts between producers, industrialists and large-scale distribution. Even if they cannot be imposed under European law, these contracts must be highly favoured in fiscal, social and regulatory terms, and concluded for a multi-year period. Last but not least, associations of producer organisations – PDOs – should be allowed to set not only prices but also volumes – otherwise price fixing is an illusion in a competitive market. We are talking about such a strengthening of PDOs since the examination of the Sapin 2 law, in vain. As is well known, the reasons for the blockage are due in particular to the professional organisation. The logic of integration of cooperatives, virtuous, follows that of the sectors, while the PDOs organize themselves horizontally, around the act of production. Is there a way to overcome this contradiction and arm French producers, so that they can negotiate, in non-Leonin relations, balanced, at the level of large production basins, on costs taking account of soil ecosystems, climate, infrastructure and so on, in order to finally reach the prices they expect? The important thing is the rearming of PDOs, thanks to new faculties of volume and price management, which can be granted by the European Commission, as we know. Everything else is literature. What comments and information would you like to make on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u182	Mr Philippe Chalmin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u183	I will take the opportunity to reply also to Mr Chassaigne. Mr Potier, you stress the importance of setting prices and quantities. We have lived a happy time, unfortunately over, that of the common agricultural policy first, in which prices, administered, were actually political. Moreover, in France, we were lucky, since, as Edgard Pisani always said, during the first agricultural marathon in the early 1960s, prices were aligned with the highest prices, those of the least efficient farmers, German prices. This wonderful rent has largely financed the silent revolution of the agricultural world. Unfortunately, the CAP is over; It will no longer regulate agricultural markets. Such a dossier will no longer be open at European level, and, since we are members of the European Union, at French level. Mr Potier, I quite agree with you that in an ideal world we should re-create a common agricultural policy similar to that in Switzerland or Japan, where prices are guaranteed to farmers. But it should be accompanied by quotas, because remember that what killed the first CAP was the lack of control over quantities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u184	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u185	To get to the end of the logic, such quotas should be attached to the land, in order to pay all the positive externalities of agriculture that Mr Gauthier has mentioned. I confirm to you in passing that, for ten years since the Observatory for the formation of prices and margins of food products exists, never has a suckler breeder covered the reality of its production costs, knowing that we push generosity until we fix their remuneration to two SMICs. Last year, in 2020, feeders, such as Mr Gauthier, were able to pay themselves up to a SMIC – they are the best. The previous year was 0.8 SMIC. I'm coming to another point. It seems important to me to distinguish between two types of agricultural products. The former see their prices set, at the end of the farm, at a level not only French, but also European and even global. This is the case for wheat or rapeseed, the price of which is at the highest, in a context of an outbreak, linked in particular to Chinese purchases. In France today, cereal farmers are rather happy people. On the other hand, I would not like to be a pig breeder – I am thinking of your area, Mr Le Fur. Although the price of pork rose slightly, the price of its food increased even more, as corn and soybeans reached record prices. These markets are global: this is an external constraint that we unfortunately cannot return to. On the other hand, Mr Potier, Mr Chassaigne, I agree with your proposal to strengthen contracting for products such as fruit and vegetables, or for part of milk production. However, I am not sure that tripartite agreements are easily manageable. The dairy sector is the most interesting from this point of view and shows all the difficulty of the thing. You are asking for remunerative prices...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chalmin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u187	... but unfortunately, we are no longer at the time when it was possible, once a year, to negotiate prices during agricultural marathons in Brussels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u188	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u189	First, the value created by farmers is real. Whether it is about quality, health safety, the environment or animal welfare, European farmers, especially French farmers, have responded to all our demands for half a century. Mr Chalmin, is it not possible to create a tool for the transparency of margin formation? The EGALIM law raised the threshold of resale at a loss, allowing a gain of 600 million euros which should have gone uphill. Secondly, does the European and French consumer pay for food at its fair price, at a responsible price? Has the price war, particularly in France, not contributed to the devalorization of food and agricultural products, thereby reducing agricultural income? Thirdly, in Europe and more particularly France, are we going to continue to witness the impotent decline in the number of farmers? As they work more, farm income declines. For fifty years, the French authorities, the politicians, the banks and the management centres have granted loans for the installation of farmers, asking their spouses to work outside to boil the pot, the farmer's profession being used only to repay the annuities of the loans. Thus, only 400,000 farms remain in 2021, and agricultural, rural areas are depopulating. That must be an issue for us. If labour units, farmers who work fifty or sixty hours on their farm, received a decent income, the succession of generations could take place. Farmers are really creating value, the question is their fair remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u190	Mrs Sophie Devienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u191	To counter the decline in farmers' incomes, it is certainly recommended to change the sharing of added value, but also, often, to increase labour productivity. I knew a farmer on the brink of bankruptcy, unable to repay any money to his co-op and bank, to which they all said, "You have to produce more, that's the only solution. While he was, I believe, close to suicide, his wife, aware that it might end badly, advised him to stop. Now – it looks like a fairy tale – while walking in the Central Massif, he met a farmer who, by relying on an efficient and autonomous herbager system and selling his production in short circuits, was doing very well, without debt, while raising four times less cows than he did. In a turn of 180 degrees, the farmer finally chose an agroecology system, registered in organic farming, which allowed him to repay his debts and get out of it. It is not enough to say: the agroecological transition is not only interesting in environmental terms, but also in economic and social terms, for many productions, especially for milk. Dairy farms using milking robots, corn wakes and soya meal, which can produce up to 10,000 litres of milk per cow per year, have an added value of 20%, while livestock farms rely on an agro-ecological system, where cows feed on grasslands sown in a balanced manner of grasses and legumes, are between 50% and 70%. It is therefore necessary to ask the question of production models from an economic and social point of view and not just from an environmental point of view. A multitude of examples in the countryside show that the agroecological model is interesting in this respect. However, the key word since the 1950s has been to increase the volume per asset, in order to produce past surpluses at low prices on the world market. Let us instead ask ourselves what model will enable us to maintain employment in the countryside tomorrow, while preserving, for example, the environment and water quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u192	Mr Guillaume Gauthier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u193	The statistics of INSEE, in particular, clearly show that in 20 years the price of beef and veal charged to the consumer has increased by 74%; It's gone up since last summer. We're talking about price war, but it's taking place in the farm yard! [[Mr Dominique Potieracquiesce]] Mr Potier, farmers and producers have shown a real willingness to work on PDOs for the past two years, according to the proposal of the FNB – the National Bovine Federation – in particular. But do all operators really want to talk to each other to move together in the same direction? The discussion is stumbling down on the question of the remuneration of basic members, the breeders. We have tried to discuss this with the minister and the mediator, after the fall of the price of the broutards exported to Italy. But for operators, it is out of the question of working together, so that PDOs died before they were born. That's unfortunate. Those who follow developments in the CAP know that, for many years now, the amendments made by the European Omnibus regulation already grant the PDO the powers you are asking for. If the actors don't want to move forward together, they won't move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u194	In the sheep industry, it worked!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u195	I was talking about beef.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u196	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u197	Mr Chalmin, Serge Papin's report proposes to make it mandatory to contract the price of agricultural raw materials in the contract between the farmer and the first processor, so that the price paid to the farmer will serve as a guide for negotiation. Do you think that this mechanism, which relies on a price reference accepted by both parties, is able to ensure a better distribution of value? This question is also addressed to Mrs Devienne. Mr Gauthier, in relation to the meat sector, do you think that it is possible to lift the blockages so that interbranch workers can reach agreement on cost-of-production indicators? Third question: Is the strengthening of producer organisations and cooperatives, particularly in the beef sector, a priority for rebalancing power relations? What do you think are the best levers to facilitate these associations, especially the development of multi-buyer producer organisations, in order to reduce dependence on a single trading partner? The fourth question: do you think that it is possible to push for the spread of purchasing power plants at Community level in order to restore a fair functioning of the markets?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u198	Mr Philippe Chalmin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u199	Mr de Courson, I have already almost answered your first question. One can imagine, indeed, a contractual logic. Among other possibilities, the market price could be used as a reference, so that, through an adhoc mechanism, stakeholders can agree transparently on a price at a given time. Let us assume, for example, that the price of wheat for the 2022 season, of about 200 euros per tonne, is remunerative for a cereal producer. The latter can already, if he wishes, from this course, fix a price with a first buyer – as to what will be the consequence for the consumer who buys bread, this is another story. A given number of channels could indeed be part of a tripartite contracting logic. I think, however, of the dairy sector, at least for the fresh produce part. This could possibly be the case with charcuterie, not necessarily in the logic of beef. Indeed, if I sympathize fully with Mr Gauthier, a breast-feeding producer, I would like to point out that 60% of the beef we eat comes from dairy reform cows. Unfortunately, therefore, the meat market is highly dependent on changes in milk prices and livestock decapitalisation. I now come to the disqualification of the purchasing power plants. Paradoxically, the concentration of buyers is not so much greater in France than in other countries. However, it is in France – I am obliged to note – that the annual exercise of the negotiations gives rise to such psychodrama every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u200	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u201	You mentioned, Mrs Devienne, the need to rethink our model and to reflect on the direction in which we want our agriculture to develop. Could you go back in particular to the regulation of land? Mr Gauthier, I would like to know your opinion on the relevance of aid to the livestock unit (UGB) rather than to the suckler cow. Do you not think that this would reorient livestock production and promote the development of the beef or reform cow sector, rather than the production of calves for export – if I can caricature the current situation in this way?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u202	Mrs Sophie Devienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u203	As far as the regulation of the land market is concerned, we in France have a very effective tool which I believe could be even more effective: a farm cannot be expanded in a completely uncontrolled manner and the prices of access to land are themselves controlled – even if sometimes things are happening under the table in some regions. This still slows down the concentration of producers. I take the example of the United Kingdom. From 1995 onwards, there has been a total deregulation of the land market. Therefore, in order to be able to grow, the producers took up land for rent by hand-contracting with a landowner, who could recover the aid from the CAP – this was the case until Brexit. For example, when there is no longer any regulation of land, some CAP aid goes directly into the pockets of landowners, either through land prices or through such contracts. In the present case, these were annual contracts concluded orally and did not provide any security of tenure. For example, a retired producer could lease his land while still receiving CAP aid. I think the land tool we have in France is very valuable. Perhaps it would be appropriate to refine it, because there are, as we know, holes in the snowshoe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u204	Yes, huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u205	At this level, they're no longer holes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u206	... there are opportunities for expansion, but it helps to maintain family farming and avoids a very brutal selection as seen in the United Kingdom. At the same time, the Milk Marketing Board – which included a contract with producers and centralization of collection – and the regulation of land ownership were abolished, resulting in a concentration at incredible speed in the dairy sector, both in Wales and in western England. It is very important to see that within the same common agricultural policy there are national variations, which can lead to very different developments. We must no doubt improve the land tool, but it is, I insist, a very valuable asset, if we compare the situation of France with that of other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u207	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u208	My question is mainly to Mrs Devienne, but certainly also to Mr Gauthier. Mrs Devienne, you are telling us, who are trying to find the right solutions, that we have probably produced too much and that agroecology is perhaps going to save us. Unfortunately, studies by CREDOC, the Research Centre for the Study and Observation of Living Conditions, show that 80 per cent of French people demand quality products, but only 20 per cent buy them; It is essential to remind him. We have just voted, in the climate change bill, on the obligation for public collective restoration to serve at least 60% of quality meat. However, there are many problems, and consumer behaviour cannot be regulated. This is an issue that we are constantly looking at. With regard to the EGALIM law, I could say a lot. We did ask for the contract, but we realized, after the passage of the law, that there was a great deal of control required, which the Minister of Agriculture himself constantly recalls. Indeed, the rules are not necessarily applied very well, and many other factors are taken into account. I would like to recall the essential nature of the law of supply and demand. We must indeed conquer export markets, as Mr Gauthier has said, even if the market for young cattle tends to contract. That said, do you know any other type of production, whatever it may be, which continues when the demand is not on the table? Don't interprofessionals have a role to play in regulation? Because regulating the market cannot consist of placing on the market a product that will not be consumed. We are firmly on the path to agroecology, and I agree with this development, but too few people are buying these products. Perhaps my point is unusual...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u209	Mr Guillaume Gauthier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u210	You referred to the controls carried out under the EQUALIM Act. In fact, there is not much to control, because there are no contracts concluded. Therefore, the controls mainly concern the origin of the products. I come to the products that people don't consume. If we fatten more males in France, if we redirect this production to the internal market, it will take time for consumers to adapt and consume males; But we don't have that time in front of us. People don't change their behavior like that. The more you tell them, the more they do the opposite – you can see it right now. As for the structure of the sector into producer organisations (OPs), which some regard as priorities, I fear that it will not change anything. A large part of the breeders are already organized in OPs, and it is apparent that this does not change much. For my part, I hear much more about volume than price, which disappoints me a lot – nevertheless I remain co-operator, and I am proud to be. One seeks, for example, to conquer a market at the expense of a competitor – who can also be a cooperative structure – but only to make volume, so that the figures become a little panic; one then realizes a margin to the head and not thanks to the price charged Mrs Taurine, if the aid for suckler cattle (ABA) were to be replaced by aid for the UGB, then all the UGBs would have to be taken into account, which would change the situation. However, it is necessary to distinguish between meat UGBs and milk UGBs, the mixed UGBs being, in my view, milk UGBs, because the mixed breeds essentially give milk – the Montbéliard cows, for example, do not provide much meat; their primary vocation is to make milk for the county, the saint nectary or other. If we were to introduce aid to the UGB, would we export less? I don't see any correlation. For my part, I would not produce more young cattle if I received such aid, knowing that it would be distributed among all and would probably yield far less than the ABA – all simulations show. A feeder-breader like me, who, in addition, cultivates to be self-sufficient, loses more than a pure birther. At each CAP health check, it was realized that the model I am reporting has lost, whether on cereals, fattening or on the cow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u211	Mrs Sophie Devienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u212	There is confusion between organic farming and agroecology. Organic farming is a specification, which can be met with an agroecological model or with a less ecological model – for example, in a large crop, to make thermal weeding or to buy poultry manure that comes 300 kilometres further north. The farmers I mentioned earlier, who benefit from a 50% added value rate, are part of the conventional, totally conventional circuits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u214	It is very important to distinguish between organic farming and agroecology. I know many farmers who do agroecology without organic farming – both in large crops and in cattle or dairy sheep farming.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u215	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u216	Food is a crucial issue for our society. The health crisis, environmental degradation and climate change are profoundly undermining our globalized, precarious and unsustainable food system. The fundamental issue is the territorial anchoring of our food supply; Our strong dependence on imports raises questions. Public policies are still too fragmented and ineffective. The EGALIM Act did not achieve the desired results: almost three years after its entry into force, agricultural prices remain well below production costs and the remuneration of farmers and producers is far from meeting the expectations raised. In my department, the Haute-Loire, the anger of farmers rumbles: their income is still so low; They feel caught up between rising charges – raw materials, regulatory constraints, wage earners – and selling prices that stagnate or even decrease. The cost of agricultural labour is far too high in France, and there is very little state aid in this area. French production can only be sustainable if farmers live in dignity. The renewal of generations in agriculture must guarantee, tomorrow, our sovereignty and our food autonomy. But we are not there – Mr Gauthier has pointed out to us. To ensure the survival of our agriculture, it is essential to take measures: to make it compulsory to identify the origin of the products, to impose fair treatment between small producers and large areas, to direct social assistance and support to the most fragile ones towards food cheques or to facilitate the supply of collective restoration of French and local products. Don't dislike those who want to impose on everyone a diet without meat, imported or synthesized in the laboratory, the diversity and quality of our plates are the result of the daily work of women and men who can grow and raise, from a single resource: the earth. Farmers reaffirm every day the essential role they play in the territory and in society for the food of the population; they are the guarantors of a diversified production, of quality, safe and traced, for all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u217	What about the questions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u218	What will happen to mountain farming with CAP 2023? The sharp increase in imports has led to lower prices and prices. When will the state stop this hellish circle? As far as aid is concerned, should we not take into account the number of assets on holdings rather than the number of hectares? Some tracks don't have a card to play? I am thinking in particular of the leather industry, with luxury leather goods. Last question: do you think that agroecology really helps to meet the needs of the population in quantity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u219	Mr Philippe Chalmin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u220	As far as the leather sector is concerned, much attention has been paid to the development of the so-called "fifth district". Unfortunately, however, its place in the process of slaughter and industrial processing is relatively secondary. On the other hand, the leather industry faced a problem last year, since much of the leather is exported to Italy, the first European country affected by the covid-19 epidemic and the first to have introduced containment. [[Smile]] For the other points, I give the floor to Sophie Devienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u221	Mrs Sophie Devienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u222	With regard to agroecology, it is important to clarify that the systems we are talking about are not extensive. These are systems through which we try to maximize biological regulation, while maintaining a relatively high level of production. There is not a single model of agroecology, since everything depends on the area the farmer has and the conditions under which he works. Some farmers in agroecology have cows producing 6000 to 7000 litres; Others have cows that produce 5000. In the Great West, as long as they have had some cereal production, farmers who move to agroecology give up to have a larger prairie area. These are not necessarily productions that are lacking in France. In agroecology, it is quite possible to maintain a high level of production; This ensures resilience, as much less reliance is placed on external purchases, imports of cakes and fertilizers. Nitrogen fertilizers, made from gas, are a problem; They represent an eminently important part of the greenhouse gases produced by French agriculture. I no longer have the exact percentage in mind, but it is far from negligible. In order to recover value added, agreements and contracts alone cannot be relied upon. There is also a need to restore biological regulation and to put ecology at the heart of productive production systems. The focus is on cost savings rather than volume increases. This is an extremely important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u223	One Member from each group, one of whose members wished to speak, was able to speak. Two of you can still speak briefly before we let our guests answer them. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u224	Many things have been mentioned, but I would like to ask a specific question to Mr Chalmin – we are neighbours, I am from the Allier. In a sector such as beef and veal, where consumption is stable and production is decreasing, how do you explain that the price paid to producers does not increase or even decrease? That's what you said earlier, Mr. Gauthier. Do others confiscate margins? Are the power ratios balanced or are we replaying the pot of earth against the pot of iron?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u225	Mrs Josiane Corneloup, elected in Saône-et-Loire, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u226	The EGALIM law has given rise to many hopes, but it has not produced the desired results at all, particularly for the beef sector. I am close enough to the farmers in my constituency to know – Guillaume Gauthier is one of them and I greet him. We had imagined that the runoff would be from the distributor to the producer. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. Should we not now impose on distributors a price based on the cost of production, which can come from the local producer, so as to avoid this pitfall? Shouldn't we also ban the purchase of agricultural products sold at a loss? Finally, as we see, Article 44 of the EQUALIM Act must be strictly applied: any importation of food products for which unauthorized products have been used in Europe must be prohibited. Finally, a question about interbranching: do you think that the interbranching of the meat sector is capable of agreeing on production indicators? This is a problem: as long as these indicators do not exist, there will be no contracting. I am among those who believe that contracting is desirable and should even be imposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u227	I invite each of the three guests to provide an answer, which will also be a conclusion. Mr Philippe Chalmin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u228	I will answer the question on beef and veal, with the report of the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Margins for the year 2021 in front of you; it is not final and will be adopted only in fifteen days. I would simply point out to Mr Gauthier that the entry price of suckler cows, expressed in euros per kg of carcass, has improved significantly in the course of 2020 – almost 50 cents. This has not been the case with dairy cows. The average price, suckler cows and dairy cows, the slaughterhouse entry for the carcase kilo was 3.39 euros in 2019, compared to 3.47 euros in 2020. This slight increase mainly affected suckler cows. I would also like to reply to Mr Dufrègne. The beef sector is not complicated: you have lactating breeders who do not cover the reality of their production costs; you have an industrial sector – we have accounts for it – whose net margins are very small, if not often negative. As you know, in the meat sector, business failures are among the most important, from year to year. The share of GMS – large and medium-sized – is growing in meat purchases. However, since we have been following the accounts of the slaughter department, its net margin is negative. Finally, the breeder is not paid, the industrialist barely covers his expenses and the distributor loses money on his butcher's department, even if he catch up elsewhere, of course – he loses even more money on his fish department, by the way. The winner, in the end, is still the consumer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u229	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u230	When you rebuild a basket of beef – which varies seasonally – you can see that it has increased a little for the consumer. It is always said that the price of meat, in the eyes of the consumer, is the price of the net, but it is possible to find burgundy at 5 or 6 euros per kilo – it is then necessary to cook it, it is true. This basket amounted to 10,90 euros in 2016, 10,97 euros in 2017, 11,05 euros in 2018, 11,33 euros in 2019 and 11,56 euros in 2020. This is an extraordinary stability, knowing that in 2020 we had the problem of closing the out-of-home restoration (RHF), as well as a much larger carcase recovery in minced meat. The price is usually stable, setting around 10 euros per kilo for the last ten years. Mr Gauthier is right, but there has been a continuation of beef consumption, but a reduction in the value of minced meat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u231	Mrs Sophie Devienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u232	I would like to react to the issue of imports of foodstuffs manufactured with unauthorized products into Europe: they can perfectly enter Europe, there is no mirror clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u233	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u234	In Canada, meat produced with growth-enhancing antibiotics is gaining a winter of cattle fattening: antibiotics change their intestinal flora, allowing them to assimilate much faster. These practices, which are absolutely prohibited in Europe, do not prevent these meats from entering the European market. It is very important to say so. It is the same for field crops: plant protection products banned in Europe are allowed abroad. I have just done a work on the lens, which I consider to be quite emblematic of the food transition. Canada is the world's leading exporter of lentils. It produces lenses with technical routes that we would not like: with glyphosate, we dry the lens on foot four days before harvest and export it to Europe at prices that are the lowest in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u235	That's what you have to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u236	All these plant protection products contribute to increased labour productivity. If the food transition is to replace French beef with a dish based on lentils imported from Canada and produced under these conditions, it is necessary to think about it. There is a real problem, because it is not sufficiently said that the use of these products is a factor in increasing labour productivity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u237	All right! It's a nice light.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u238	I thank you for these very specific elements, which will serve us in our future discussions. Mr Guillaume Gauthier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u239	I will begin by answering the question on the functioning of the interprofessional system, before concluding. I have been in the inter-occupation for three and a half years: in the state in which it is located, we will never progress towards fairer remuneration. We even tried to include the word "fair," but it seemed too rude for some families. As long as decisions are taken unanimously, things will not move forward. At the production level, all trade unions sit. They agree all the time; When it comes to bringing value to producers, there are no small wars. Breeders, especially suckler cow farmers, who are more grazing their animals, often agree on environmental aspects. I can only agree with Mrs Devienne: there is no mirror clause, we bring and consume in Europe foodstuffs that we do not want to produce at home. In introduction, I said the words "real life." Well, when I hear you, Mr. Chalmin, I'm outraged. It is not surprising, on the part of the director of the Observatory for Prices and Margins, but I am outraged to hear that GMS loses money when they sell meat. I'm going to take you to GMSs that don't do like the others, that don't put all the structural loads on the butcher's ray; They buy the animals at 5 or 6 euros a kilo, sell them less expensive than I do on direct sale, while being beneficiaries – I can assure you. The loss resale threshold was introduced, but who took advantage of the crime? Clearly to GMS, who now have the right to sell more expensive and no longer have the right to sell at a loss – which is a good thing for them. However, runoff has never taken place and mechanically, the prices of the meat beam have rather increased. You said that prices rose in 2020: that's true, as far as females are concerned. You are aware that droughts have occurred in recent years, that cereal yields in 2020 were not very satisfactory and that they would have preferred to combine two sources of income. I see this in my protein purchases for my young cattle – I use grassland and biodiversity to fatten females, but it's very complicated to fatten young cattle with grass. The Observatory therefore leaves me a little bitter taste; If we are still thinking that the GMS lose money when they sell meat, I understand that we hear at Interbev saying: if we paid the breeders, what would we become! I can't condone that anymore. Of course, I am a member of a union, but when I see what is happening I can only make a statement of failure: the general states of food, we believe in it, but it does not work; Interbev, we believe in it, but it doesn't work when it comes to prices. We turn to the public authorities, we ask them to do something. As a member of JA, the Young Farmers Union, I said that the pillar was the installation. Now I say that it is food, it is the living territories and what is happening there: in the Cantal, in the Saône-et-Loire, wherever there is breeding, there will be biodiversity. Let us not be opposed to different models of ours. How can we compare the French territories with those of other European countries and even South America? I'm not ready to do what some distant neighbors do with food, hormones or antibiotics. I want to defend my country and my territory, because I act directly on it. When I see my cows in a meadow, even if there is no grass and they are brought hay, they are outside, they are there. You know all this, you're local elected officials. [[Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras and Mrs MM. André Chassaigne and Jean-Paul Dufrègne applaud]] Frankly, do something: the agricultural world needs you. We turn to you, because we have no other solution. You have the future of the country in your hands because the food sovereignty of France is not Carrefour, it is the peasants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u240	Thank you to our three guests – the law of the genre has imposed a limitation on the duration of their interventions. We will suspend the sitting very briefly, the time to bring the minister in.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u241	We come to the sequence of questions and answers to the minister, who will begin with an introductory statement by the minister, which may be relatively brief since the debate has already begun with him earlier in the House. The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u242	Thank you for organizing this debate in this somewhat atypical form: a question-and-answer session, followed by a round table, and then a new exchange. The subject that brings us together is the EGALIM law, and more broadly the remuneration of farmers. This debate concerns our sovereignty. I have already said that there is no strong country without strong agriculture, and there is obviously no agriculture without farmers. I like to define them as entrepreneurs of the living who feed the people. Of course, they live with their passion, but passion cannot do everything: it cannot always replace remuneration. To meet the incredibly important challenge of generational renewal, we need to find ways and means to ensure their remuneration. The first observation is that public policies are essential, whether national, European or international, to regulate the power relations that govern trade negotiations. I think I can say that our common objective, whatever our political edge, is to find ways to end the so-called price war that has resulted, which we have been facing for years. Indeed, it is incompatible with quality agriculture, even though quality is the DNA of our agriculture. Whether nutritional or environmental – everything is linked – the quality of food is at the heart of all societal debates; The crisis of the covid-19 placed him even more on the front of the stage. Quality cannot increase in a context of price war which results in a constant reduction in the tariff paid to the producer. The paradoxical injunction to always multiply standards cannot be maintained without paying for the quality thus produced. How can we act on this dimension? I imagine you've discussed it. The first response relates to the creation of value within the sectors. These have an indispensable role to play. The enthusiasm around the general states of food has shown their importance. I welcome the commitment to them by Stéphane Travert, then Minister of Agriculture and Food. Then comes the distribution of value throughout the chain, which brings us back to the law EGALIM. We talked about it a lot earlier. In my view, three years after its review, we can take stock of it and say that it has led to progress. I want to point out that in the agri-food world, no one is questioning it. It initiated a change of mind, by imposing the construction of the "walk forward" price: the industrialist must negotiate with the producer before negotiating with the large distribution. The text has also promoted sector plans and introduced new mechanisms, such as the loss resale threshold, whose benefits are known, but also the limits. Nevertheless, it must be noted that this law has not sufficiently improved the remuneration of farmers. The question is what would have been the deflation of agricultural prices if it had not been adopted. It is very difficult to answer. According to the Trade Negotiations Observatory, since its promulgation, purchasing prices to suppliers have declined successively by 0.4 % in the 2019 negotiations, by 0.1 % for 2020 and by 0.3% for 2021. Thus, the EGALIM law was necessary, but it is not sufficient. It is now a question of how to go further, bearing in mind that it is our sovereignty and our agricultural model, our agriculture in the territories. As we have said before, to mention only livestock farming, few people know that the average size of French farms is much lower than that of European farms, regardless of the type of production; As for international farms, their average size is infinitely higher. It is clear that the salutation of remuneration and the sustainability of our agricultural model will not come from "competitiveness-cost", as they say in the economy, but from "competitiveness out of cost", that is, from quality, displayed and remunerated. The EGALIM law has therefore changed the state of mind by introducing the necessary step forward, thanks to which the dynamics of negotiation go in the right direction, but it has not sufficiently changed the rules. In my opinion, this is the main flaw. Legally, the rules governing economic and commercial relations were successively defined by the Act of 1 July 1996 on Fairness and Balance of Trade Relations, known as the Galland Act, the Act of 4 August 2008 on the modernization of the economy, known as the LME Act, and the EGALIM Act. The first set out the terms of trade relations, for example by obliging industrialists to offer the same price to the whole distribution system. Any deviations had to be justified. It was a question of avoiding the flight ahead of the players in the large distribution sector, who hoped to obtain a better price from the industrialists, and thus engaged the price war. The LME has returned to this device. In order to preserve the purchasing power of the French, it imposed a balance of forces on the entire agri-food chain. Personally, I believe that this was a mistake. Our agriculture, based on quality, and this mode of operation are contradictory. It is necessary to explain to consumers that quality is necessary, not to please farmers, but for everyone's proper diet. For both the executive and the legislators, nutrition policy is extremely important, but it is clear that its place in societal debates has diminished far too much. I belong to the generation of "five fruits and vegetables a day"; For a previous generation, remember, it was the daily milk glass. As Hippocrates claimed, food is the first medication. We have to explain that we believe in quality food: the meat of a chicken from a French farm has nutritional qualities incomparable with that of a chicken from a Ukrainian or Brazilian farm – this is obviously true for all meats. The EGALIM law did not completely correct the effects of the changeover. The LME aimed at price deflation. The EGALIM law tends to bring the negotiation upstream of the chain, without abrogating the LME. It must be made clear that a commercial relationship is based primarily on a balance of power. For having experienced it extensively in my previous posts, as soon as I took the lead in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I announced the colour to all the actors, industry and large distribution, saying that I would enter into this balance of forces. This afternoon we discussed the need to balance the weight of those involved upstream, especially the POs, with the weight of those involved downstream, namely the industrialists and the large distribution and even the purchasing platforms. It is obviously necessary to increase the weight of the former; As my comments on the sector have shown, I believe deeply in producer organisations. Nevertheless, there will still be greater support, both in the agricultural sector and in many other economic sectors, for the difficulties we face. We cannot therefore rely on this solution alone. To act on the balance of power, we must firmly enforce the law. When I took over from the ministry, one of my first actions, with my colleagues in Bercy, was to increase controls, notably led by the DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention. Indeed, I recognize with great humility that the players in the major distribution and industrial sectors are much more concerned with a DGCCRF mail than with a letter signed by the Minister. Indeed, the former can take sanctions and its intervention poses a risk of image. Fortunately, we have done this: in the opinion of many of the players in these trade relations, we have injected pressure into the circuit, with beneficial effects. However, if this measure was also necessary, it is also not sufficient. Given the history of the LME, how can we weigh even more in the balance of forces, to advance farm rate compensation? On this point, we all share the same objective; I welcome the political consensus in this area. Moreover, the Government has the humility to consider that, while it is at the origin of a first law that has had beneficial effects, it has not gone far enough: the expertise has been made of it and I welcome in this regard the work carried out by Thierry Benoit and all the deputies who participated in it, allowing us to put the work back on the profession. To that end, a bill to protect farmers' remuneration was tabled by Mr. Grégory Besson-Moreau. This text is of course technical, but it is very important. It relies on what is working well today. This requires more contracting; maximum tripartite contracting; much more transparency. We need to move from price wars to transparency of margins. Moreover, since a three-way relationship rarely ends well, it is necessary to ensure that what has been negotiated upstream can no longer be negotiated downstream, what is known as the non-negotiability of the price of agricultural raw materials, which falls over a large part of the LME law. I should like to add one last point, which is also very important: besides mediation, there must be a system for settling trade disputes. The problems are numerous and mediation is increasingly popular, but it does not have enough tools. The bill, which is expected to be considered in June, will make it possible to move forward. Let us not forget, at last, two other extremely important points. We will only improve the remuneration of farmers by introducing new rules for trade relations, by directing public debate on the issue of quality, precisely remunerated; the role of the consumer in this respect is essential. Let us stop saying that the gains in purchasing power of the French are on the back of farmers. This requires political courage. This is the discourse we heard with the LME law: when we demanded an increase in prices, we regretted that it was at the expense of the purchasing power of the French. However, two different policies must be dissociated: one is social and concerns purchasing power, while the other concerns the remuneration of farmers. My last point concerns international trade, with, for example, the famous mirror clauses, which must be developed, for a lasting quality. The Ukrainian and Brazilian chickens I mentioned are produced with standards that are neither those of France nor those of the European Union: one of the main objectives of the French Presidency of the European Union will be to intervene on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u243	We turn to the question-and-answers. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u244	I have already had the opportunity to raise the issue of free trade treaties and their consequences, and I will not go back to that. However, such a question cannot be disconnected from the morose climate prevailing in the breeding areas, as a young breeder of suckler cattle in Saône-et-Loire has just testified before us. These are insufficiently remunerative prices, often for quality production; aggressive campaigns to challenge meat consumption; no less aggressive campaigns concerning animal welfare, throwing reproach on a whole profession; prospects for reform of the CAP leaving doubt about a reduction in aid to the agricultural sector, giving the impression that the right pupils will be punished. However, these good pupils receive a salary of misery: 700 euros per month for weeks of work of more than 60 hours. However, this type of agriculture allows the diversity of our landscapes, the maintenance of a rich biodiversity, with a high percentage of natural grasslands, non-labourable land. What will become of these so-called disadvantaged areas, if the breeding is called into question? I am thinking of my department of the Allier, where the bourbonnais bocage and its green meadows extend, where the animals feed, because, minister, there are still animals in the meadows. What will become of these territories if young people no longer settle in, for lack of perspective, or if settled young people leave the trade? The decisions you make will draw the territories of tomorrow. Your responsibility is great. The farmers welcomed you when you were appointed; They trusted you and me, too. Since then, the doubt has settled again. Do not disappoint them and tell us how you will use CAP reform to respond to this urgent appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u245	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u246	My responsibility is great, particularly with regard to the common agricultural policy. Beyond this issue, we must face the challenge of installation and remuneration, which has three dimensions, in the first place the challenge of the EGALIM law. Indeed, while the CAP is intended to support farmers' remuneration, none of them wants to receive subsidies. They want to live by selling their products, thanks to a fair price. Secondly, the role of the industry is essential. I work with her and this is sometimes complicated, but I will not let go on this point, because value creation is done in a sector, as we all know. I point out that the line goes from upstream to downstream, to distribution: the breeder is not the only one at stake. I mentioned the issue of quality in my previous comment: a target of 40% Red label meat had been set for 2022, but we were at 3% in 2017, just as we are now. I do not throw the stone at anyone, because the whole structure of the sector is concerned, up to the distribution and the consumer, but this is a major issue. Thirdly, the CAP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u247	If you will, we will come back to this subject in the next few questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u248	I'm committed to it, Mr. Dufrègne!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u249	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u250	Our agriculture is one of the best in the world, if not the best. Our farmers are engaged and invested on a daily basis to feed the French, but their work does not pay off and their precariousness is known to all. The average wage for farmers is too low: one third earn less than 350 euros per month, 22% live below the poverty line and 26,000 earn the RSA. Farmer's bankruptcies and suicides are multiplying, you know that. As a result of this dramatic finding, the EGALIM Act had the ambition to secure better incomes for farmers. More than two years later, the situation had changed only too little: the Government was not ensuring that the law was properly implemented, and sanctions and controls remained inadequate. However, there are also many margins of progress. However, the fair remuneration, so much hoped by our farmers, and the financial balance of their farm, will be greatly impacted. I would like to warn you, Minister, about the misunderstanding and anger of the farmers in my Aube department, whom I met again last Friday. Their loads are increasing or even exploding – this is the case, for example, of the tax on nitrogen fertilizers. The aid they receive is decreasing: the CAP reform should exclude 22% of farms, especially in the Barrois or in the Othe country. As you know, these less-favoured areas are not classified as intermediate areas, although they would deserve to be classified in view of the climatic conditions. In addition, their exploitable agricultural areas are decreasing: the NTAs – non-treatment zones – buffer zones and fallow areas are involved. You will easily understand, Minister, that our farmers are very worried about the future. How do you intend to address these concerns and solve these problems?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u251	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u252	We should start, honourable Member, by stopping saying things wrong: there are no taxes on nitrogen fertilizers, I don't know how to say it more clearly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u253	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u254	The first thing we owe to our farmers is to stop telling carabistyles. Parliamentarians have voted to implement the commitments of all the countries of the European Union, I say well all – there is no overtransposition – by making the choice of trust: the law provides that, since the agricultural world follows European commitments, there can be no taxes. This little music of accrediting the idea of a tax on nitrogen fertilizers is false. Secondly, because it is too easy to send the ball back to us, look for, among all the increases in standards and overtranspositions, how much is government and how much is done by the legislature. Frankly, do you think a minister, like me, who fought like he fought on the beet, is a fan of overtransposition?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u255	We fought on the beet too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u256	Yeah, I know, but do you really think I'm a fan of overtransposition? In order to speed up transitions, our main fight must be at European level, to ensure that all the transitions imposed are also on this scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u257	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u258	This issue has not emerged three years ago, since it has existed for twenty years that we seek to impose all these transitions on farmers, without ever asking ourselves the question of what will ultimately happen to their profit and loss account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u259	Well, not much...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u260	I have been fighting every day, without exception, for the last year on these questions: these are not just words, I have demonstrated them. For God's sake, let's stop conveying false information, which eventually demoralizes everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u261	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u262	Thank you for your introductory statement, Minister. I hear that the EGALIM law does not work: the carolaise breeder who sat in your place a moment ago referred to a "great disillusionment" in this regard. We agreed on the purpose of this laudable law to ensure income for farmers. You are right to point out that they want to live from their work and not from subsidies, even European ones. This law was a vital emergency: I remember that his impact study mentioned that 50% of farmers received less than 350 euros per month in 2016. The emergency is always the same, three years later: the account is not there. We alerted you, at the time, to the EGALIM law: the problem, still topical, was that of the lack of regulation. A first assessment, drawn up in 2019, showed that the law had had an impact on only one fifth of farmers' resources, without taking account of changes in burdens. In this area, farmers are currently faced with speculation, particularly on livestock feed. The report you received on March 25 confirms that the winners are still the same. The EGALIM law has therefore not rebalanced the relations between farmers and other actors in the sector. Are you ready, minister, to draw the consequences of this semi-failure, or this failure? Unfortunately, a state of mind does not make life and does not fill the fridges. Are you ready to regulate? It is indeed regulation that the agricultural world needs: internal but also European regulation. The previous speakers have thus told us that what is forbidden in Europe is not forbidden elsewhere, and that we import what is forbidden in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u264	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u265	I am extremely in favour of regulation at European level, which is essential: we cannot make ever more decisions at national level when we are in a common market; all of these topics are at European level. It is, among others, the mother of battles. It must be borne in mind, however, that these issues are primarily international, with WTO regulations at stake: the famous mirror clauses. There has been progress and we hope to see a new one in the coming months with regard to antibiotics used in the meat sector. We are fighting hard in this area, but we need to go further and tackle the issue of mirror clauses, which is not really linked to free trade agreements. It is not a question of customs duties, which amount to 0.5% or 15%, even if they exacerbate the difficulties: the real problem is that our particularly ambitious European standards are not shared by all. Far from the eyes, far from the consciences, even if this precept is in this case an aberration and that it harms what we defend. However, I do not advocate autarchy, but I want to promote these standards at the international level. I have made it a priority of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union and we are also making progress in this area within the framework of the common agricultural policy – I could go back to that. In the end, yes, we need to make a full commitment in this area. As for the second level of regulation, everything depends on what is meant by "regulation" – we discussed it a lot this afternoon. The great question that is asked and that I have dealt with with with great kindness is: Is it possible to fix prices by law? Your reaction speaks for you, Member: you are skeptical. I share your feeling. But while legal and economic problems arise with the setting of prices by law, the question of farmers' remuneration up to the cost of production remains.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u266	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u267	Work is under way on this issue and Grégory Besson-Moreau's bill, which will be discussed in June, will have to resolve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u268	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u269	As a Member of Parliament only recently, I have not had time to meet many farmers or actors in the sector, but I have still had the feeling of some, particularly from the dairy sector. It seems that the latter, unlike the meat sector, sees the EGALIM law as a positive development, even if what it contains is incomplete or incomplete. In this regard, a genuine reflection on exports should be carried out. The industrialists with whom I spoke told me to play the game: if they paid at the cost of production what they sell in France, they buy what they export at very low prices at the spot price. Producer remuneration therefore remains relatively low and needs to be improved. In addition, I wanted to ask you about the monitoring and evaluation tools. I was not present during the review of the EGALIM bill, but I read the Papin report, which calls for a system of sharing information through a trusted third party. Is this a device you are considering applying? In addition, have the controls of the DGCCRF, which you yourself mentioned, provided useful elements for your reflection on the generalization of tripartite contracts?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u270	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u271	First of all, with regard to the international market, your question demonstrates the complexity of the matter. Many sectors also sell internationally, making France an agricultural export power, which is very important. Whether it is meat, big crops or milk, some sectors export their products massively, as is evident from our work on broutards, a large part of which are exported. The great difficulty, however, is that, at international level, price regulation does not take place in accordance with French law. This refers us to Mrs Pires Beaune's question and to the importance of action at European level. And in the case, for example, of milk powder, which is a global market, the issue is even more complex. There is a serious problem when exports are used to justify unacceptable behaviour. As we know, some use this argument to avoid paying "farm yard" by paying producers below production costs. This refers to the second part of your question, on transparency. To be very simple, together with Mr. Serge Papin, we have found that multi-year tripartite contracts are working well – many examples attest to this. They allow a better distribution of value. We have therefore concluded that they need to be generalised without waiting for Mr Besson-Moreau's bill to be voted on, using trusted third parties, that is, approved auditors. It is a common practice of commercial relations: they attest to the margins of each other in order to better distribute the value among the actors. In this way, we will be able to get out of the game of dupes which consists, for the industrialists, of returning the fault on the big distribution, and vice versa. If Mr Besson-Moreau's bill is passed, we will no longer even need third parties of trust because, by default, transparency will be provided for by the contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u272	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u273	Controversy, transparency, pluriannuality and non-negotiability of prices, these are the key words.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u274	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u275	Minister, you said that trade was a balance of power. Yes and no, I will answer you. Normally, trading is communicating. If, in 2021, this is a balance of forces, it is because for half a century we have allowed an empire to be created: that of large distribution and purchasing plants. Thus, from now on, trade speaks of everything but the product to be negotiated. What do these actors ask for? Discounts, discounts, discounts, business plans, international services and penalties of all kinds, including logistics. All this aims to devalue food, so much so that we come to aberrations, as when a big sign offers twenty-one meals for 21 euros. If this type of campaign does not destroy value and does not commit consumers to consider that food and food are worthless, it is not to understand! You are therefore right when you say that the consumer must pay the fair and responsible price and that it is not up to the farmers to finance the purchasing power in France, as the LME law provided for about fifteen years ago – a law that I did not vote well and which, in fact, exacerbated the price war and never ceased to destroy value. Having said that, are we prepared, for example, in the bill that we will be considering in June, to ban any advertising aimed at devaluing foodstuffs? And are we ready, within the framework of this balance of forces, to create more transparency in the formation of margins? Indeed, the 600 million euros – this is the value – generated by the increase in the resale threshold at a loss should have been equitably distributed among distributors, industrialists and, above all, farmers: the sum should have gone up the line. We therefore probably lack a tool or a mechanism of transparency in the formation of margins. Yet we have invented everything for fifty years: the Autorité de la concurrence, DGCCRF, the Commission d'évaluation des pratiques commerciales, the Observatory for the formation of food prices and margins, and mediation. We invented everything in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u276	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u277	As far as the balance of power is concerned, we are faced with a big problem, which concerns not only the large distribution, to which you refer, but also the industrialists. If tomorrow, for a given product, the large distribution was asked to increase its price by 5 cents of euro to better pay the farmers, this would solve the problem. However, achieving this mass movement in our country is impossible, because it would be an agreement. Fortunately, cartels are prohibited because they are carried out on the backs of consumers, which no one can wish for. Nevertheless, the balance of power is such that, beyond its margin, everyone tries to defend their market share. To this end, the actors seek to obtain the best prices, to the detriment of the farmers, in order to constitute products of call. The whole meaning of the coming bill, and that was also the meaning of the Galland Act upon which the LME Act came back, is to prevent the so-called game theory from being applied in economics. In the name of this theory, an actor assumes that a competitor can buy a product cheaper and therefore decides to pull the price down. That's what we have to stop. And since, fortunately, we are in an economy where cartels are prohibited, we need to find a way that is not the setting of prices to put an end to this game of fools. So you will see the complexity of the company we are facing. I say "we", because it is collectively that we will find the solution, which will not be a miracle – as you said very well, honourable Member – but which is indispensable. With regard to transparency, the second point you mentioned, I fully agree with you. As for promotions, the bill will enshrine an entire article. Of the three types of promotion that exist, one of them, in my view, poses a problem: these are very low-cost promotions under "decommitments", which ruin the perception of the quality of the products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u279	I believe that decommitments should now be prohibited without the approval of the sector concerned, which I believe would be a very important step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u280	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u281	I'll have two questions. At the stage of negotiations between producers and purchasers, the EGALIM Act provides that the cost of production is to be taken into account at the discretion of the parties. Do you think that this consideration should be made mandatory? Furthermore, was the Government in favour of introducing a mandatory price review clause in contracts between suppliers and distributors that took into account all production costs or, at least, a clause that would activate in the event of a cyclical shock on raw materials? As for my second question, it may surprise you. Is e-commerce not a way of bypassing large-scale distribution and better valuing producer prices?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u282	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u283	There are actually three questions: the first on the cost of production, the second on indexation and the third on e-commerce. As far as the cost of production is concerned, the EGALIM law already makes it compulsory to take account of it, while providing that a contract may justify not doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u284	It's contradictory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u285	There are therefore two possibilities. The first is to say that the cost of production, fixed by the interbranch or another actor, becomes the basic price, which would mean that the law introduces minimum prices. This option refers to other considerations, as a minimum price economy has many consequences. We have experienced this operation in the past, including in the agricultural world, which has led to very problematic cases. Is that the way we want to take? Or, second possibility, do we prefer to say that the cost of production must be the reference – even if it reinforces the clauses when it is not taken into account – and, above all, that the latter and the price of agricultural raw materials are frozen once they have been negotiated between producers and industrialists? Today, large-scale distribution is renegotiating the price of agricultural raw materials, which must no longer be possible. These are the two paths open to us and we will be debating in June. I repeat, both options have serious legal and economic consequences. My will is to go as far as possible, as long as the device is applicable. With regard to indexing – I use this term deliberately – the answer is yes: I believe that is the way forward. Could we rely on e-commerce? In all objectivity, I'm not sure. Firstly, the remuneration of producers depends not only on large-scale distribution, but also on industrialists. Secondly, this three-way household is one of the main sources of the problem. Thirdly, it is not e-commerce that will put an end to this game of dupes and to the balance of forces between the actors. And fourthly, I would point out that e-commerce is in deficit in the sale of many products, and that would not surprise me if some of the players in this sector were to draw even lower margins for food products. I am therefore agnostic on this point, but rather very suspicious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u286	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u287	My speech will focus on three points. The first concerns the bill that Grégory Besson-Moreau has tabled and on which we are currently working. It is true that we have an obligation to achieve results, but the question of farmers' remuneration is not a new subject, which has only been debated for three or four years. This is an old question that we have addressed through the right end, that is, by the angle of the cost of production. That three years after the enactment of the EGALIM law, it is necessary to adapt it, it seems to me quite natural. We had committed ourselves to reopening the case if things didn't work well enough. The bill, which aims to create transparency and multi-annuality, seems to me to go quite well in this direction. Furthermore, it is impossible to talk about farmers' remuneration, not to mention the common agricultural policy, which you have mentioned, Mr Minister. Even if some regret it, the common agricultural policy exists and counts for a great deal in this remuneration. If the new programming that is currently under negotiation will shift some cursors, the envelope of the appropriations allocated to France will remain stable, and prioritizing a particular sector may cause concern for nursing livestock, which is already in difficulty. I would therefore like to hear from you about the way in which you are apprehensive of the question of CAP support for breastfeeding. Finally, with regard to mirror clauses, it is absolutely essential that foodstuffs produced outside the standards that we authorize cannot be imported into our territory. What is the attitude of the countries of the European Union on this subject and what prospects do we have for these clauses to develop?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u288	The Minister has the floor. Minister, the dairy world is waiting in particular for your answers on coupled aids.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u289	This question will allow me to answer Mr Dufrègne as well. You're right about EQUALIM, you have to put the work back on the job. While the legislature has not yet been completed, this demonstrates our willingness to move forward together on these complicated issues, and I have no doubt that the parliamentary debate will allow us to go as far as possible and achieve something that works. As far as the CAP is concerned, this is an essential point, but it must never overshadow the problems of the EGALIM law and those related to the sectors. For my part, I defend the maintenance of the balance between territories and sectors and am not in favour of massive transfers, such as those resulting from the last two negotiations, especially since we have two reforms to finalise: that of eco-regimes and their accessibility to the plant and animal sectors and that of coupled aid. For the latter, my conviction is that the calculation of coupled animal aid must be reviewed; They are now calculated on the basis of the number of calves per cow, whereas a calculation based on the UGB, i.e. the composition of the herd, should be made. Many players in the sector are in favour of reform in this direction. That being said, the devil nests in detail. Thus, many have feared that the transition to the UGB, which requires a lot of technical adjustments, will be accompanied by a massive reduction in aid. Figures have been circulated, which in no way correspond to the reality: while beef aid amounts to just over EUR 700 million, some have spoken of a reduction of EUR 250 million, which would kill the system. This is absolutely not my vision of this important reform, which still needs to be defined by the different cursors, taking into account all its implications. It can only be done at the cost of a great deal of work with the networks and a great deal of support, but, despite the fears it raises, in my view this mechanism is the one that best meets the objectives that we have set ourselves – and I do not minimize in any way the difficulties that we will encounter. As for a significant reduction in aid, some of which has caused rumours, it is not included in any of the scenarios currently on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u290	Speakers from the various groups whose members wished to speak spoke. We will move on to a second set of questions. Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u291	Agriculture arouses passion, for it is not an activity like any other, nor are agricultural products just like others; It must be hammered, because this specificity must be taken into account. For more than half a century, the record has been sadly the same, we hold the same speeches to farmers, we hear the same words in response to the same demands and demands on their income. But fortunately, it seems to me that we have finally gone from speeches to deeds. The need for regulation has been mentioned earlier. Of course, the law of supply and demand is inevitable – even if we have not voted – when we talk about markets, but it alone cannot regulate them. That is why I have a lot of faith in channels and contracting. Why not imagine a regulatory fund, like what was set up with precautionary savings, which would be fed by all the players in the sector and accompanied by a bonus-malus system? I would also like to refer to the context in which we operate. We are talking a lot about animal welfare, but it is high time to think, as we are finally beginning to do, about the well-being of farmers and farmers. In the face of the constraints they face, in the face of agribashing, is it not our duty to build a positive discourse, especially for the attention of young people? Agriculture is facing the challenge of generational renewal, and this is likely to be a way to overcome this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u292	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u293	Beyond the regulatory funds, it is all the insurance schemes, such as crop insurance or the protective funds that are in our hands and for which we need to find solutions. As much as I think it is extremely difficult to set up price-based regulatory funds, I think we need safety nets. A double sword of Damocles today threatens our farmers: on the one hand, that of variations in the market; On the other hand, climate hazards are becoming more and more violent. It is in this direction that what you call regulatory funds must be directed, which I prefer to describe as an insurance policy. Secondly, I have always said that the welfare of animals would be even stronger if the welfare of the breeders was taken into account. The example of live castration of piglets was cited earlier. A regulatory text has already been adopted to bring it to an end on 1 January 2022. But it has a cost. We have been working on it for a year with the sectors, but it also depends on the consumers: indeed, if we cast the piglets, it is above all because the consumers want a ham that does not smell too loud. It is therefore necessary that, on the whole chain – among the industrialists and also in the large distribution sector – everyone takes responsibility. You may have noticed that I never use the word agribashing. On the other hand, I am talking about quality, innovation, passion and remuneration. It is on these terms that a positive discourse must be based which encourages the young people of France to turn to these beautiful professions during the living of the agricultural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u294	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u295	In order to improve farmers' income, the EGALIM Act provided for the establishment of a benchmark and market indicator for each agricultural sector to integrate production costs into price negotiations with the processing and distribution sectors. It must be noted, however, that the law has not changed the fact that producers are still subject to the will of large-scale distribution in price negotiations. On the other hand, the Bigard Group has made it clear to the interbranch that it would do everything not to apply the law: it is an example of the relations of power that you mentioned earlier. In a market economy, the objectives of the EQUALIM Act, however laudable they may be, cannot be achieved if they are not associated with binding measures. In these circumstances, how do you intend to limit the trading margins of large retailers and industrialists?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u296	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u297	My conviction – and we are not dealing with an exact science – is that it is not just a relationship between farmers and large distribution, but a relationship of three, in which there are two who end up agreeing on the back of the weakest, that is, the farmer. The result is a game of fools – even though some, in the big distribution or among the industrialists, are virtuous and really play the game. In this price war, everyone, when he sees that his neighbor has obtained a advantageous price, strives to get the same thing, which pulls everyone down. We must stop the game of fools, stop this levelling down, through which everyone digs his grave, and get out of this situation from the top. This implies that all the great industrial captains who constantly boast of quality France renounce to dig the common grave and collectively become aware of the stakes: the agri-food chain is a chain, and if there is one that falls, all will fall with it; If tomorrow, agriculture dies, the day after tomorrow, it will be the industry, then the big distribution. With regard to the balance of power, I am multiplying the controls to make sure that the law is respected, knowing that the new bill must give us the means to get out from the top of this game of dupes. It is a technical text which, thanks to its contributions in terms of contracting, transparency, non-negotiability of prices, multi-annuality and a dispute committee, should enable us to significantly improve the framework for trade negotiations. I am not saying that the scheme is perfect, but a lot of work has been done and I am counting on parliamentary debates to allow us to go further. I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u298	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u299	The finding is unanimous: the EGALIM law had given rise to many hopes, but the results are unfortunately not there, especially for beef farmers – I see this regularly, since I am elected in the heart of the Saône-et-Loire, the cradle of the Charolais race. Agricultural Social Mutuality reports a quarter of farmers with incomes below EUR 350 per month: under these conditions, it is not possible for young people to engage in agriculture. We are still in a price war, to the detriment of quality and health. At the previous round table, the lentils produced in Canada and dried with glyphosate were discussed; I will add soy and palm oil steaks, insisting on the fact that it is imperative that we reconnect with the notion of quality. We have seen that the 10 per cent increase in the loss resale threshold and the setting of promotions have not affected the increase in farm incomes. The Papin report estimates that these two schemes would have made it possible to raise EUR 550 million, but unfortunately these sums did not benefit farmers. The use of contracting is also found to be a failure, since it concerns only derisory volumes, inversely proportional to the advertising which is made of them. This is regrettable because, according to the farmers who welcome it, this contract, when it comes to it, allows an interesting price increase. Is it not necessary to change the paradigm of the EGALIM law, which, so far, was not binding, by now imposing price construction on the basis of production costs, but also, in a step forward, on the rise of agricultural raw materials and processing costs? Should we not also prohibit the purchase of food products sold at a loss and ensure that article 44 of the law is applied and that any importation of foodstuffs for which unauthorized products have been used in France is prohibited?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u300	I propose to group the last questions together. Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u301	Everyone is talking a lot about contracting, for my part, I'm going to give you an uphill look at the cooperatives: the breeder we received a few moments ago told us that he now wanted tripartite contracts, and that's a unanimous demand right now because we really see a lot of people complaining strongly about their membership in a cooperative. I think you too, Minister, must have gone back in that direction. There are certainly some who play the game, who have not strayed, but we find a lot of them whose partners cooperators really complain. Then you know myada: I regularly ask how to force consumers to buy what they ask because their requests are often disconnected from their purchase act. It is true that we are talking a lot about mirror clauses for imports from third countries, but, at the same time, farmers are complaining a lot about everything that is imported from other countries of the European Union at prices much lower than at home, without the production standards necessarily being met. We sometimes look far away from the culprits, but it must be recognized that this situation does not help to give the wishes of the consumer, because what he buys most at the moment are imported, strawberry or other products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u302	Mr André Chassaigne, who asks the last question to the minister, will be the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u303	For years, the ambition to create a virtuous circle in terms of relations has been touched, and I have known this with Bruno Le Maire when he was Minister of Agriculture about ten years ago. He intended to arrange everything within the framework of the interfaiths, I even had the impression that he had reached the nirvana... But since then, it's more like going down to hell. I think that, in order to caress the virtuous circle, it becomes more and more vicious because if we do not ask the real questions, we will not be able to find lasting solutions – even in the bill that will come in June, we will have an opportunity to talk about it. The real problems are not taken into account when you yourself have outlined what needs to be done, Minister, saying that the lines will have to be moved during the French Presidency of the European Union. Indeed, as long as we have a common agricultural policy focused solely on competition, competitiveness and the opening up of markets, we will not succeed! You have to kick in the anthill. You say you have the hope of changing the situation regarding mirror clauses, but Article 44 of the EGALIM Law is still not operational because it is still impossible to monitor whether imported products meet the environmental or health standards existing in Europe. The rules are being hijacked by everyone, customs and DGCCRF tell us that they can't do anything about them, and that's not even possible at European level. And then, with regard to price guarantees, the European Union must accept that they must be guaranteed at a level that covers production costs. As far as the CAP is concerned, not only will it not improve things, but it will create distortions of competition. Finally, you said that the reduction in coupled aid will not be EUR 250 million, but then how much will it be and on what basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u304	I give the floor to the Minister, thanking him very much for his availability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u305	I have noted several points in common between Mrs Corneloup's and Mrs Leguille-Balloy's questions, starting with questions about the value of contracting. He's a major for me. All the work carried out with each other and which will give rise to this new text in June is not theoretical work: each time they were the result of the good practices observed here and there, thanks in particular to Serge Papin's mission that Agnes Pannier-Runacher and I have been mandated more than six months ago, knowing that he is familiar with the system, including its entrails. All these studies show that contracting makes it possible to change a lot, even more tripartite contracting, easier to impose under competition rules, but we will have the opportunity to talk about it again in June since. The EGALIM law provides that contracting is not compulsory unless otherwise provided, the Besson-Moreau bill will provide the opposite, i.e. the logic of the mechanism will be completely changed so that contracting becomes the basic rule. I think that is an extremely important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u306	I admit I don't understand anything about this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u307	Today, the EGALIM law makes contracting compulsory only for certain sectors, only for certain sectors. In the bill, non-contractualization is the exception, when one cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u308	It's kind of the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u309	For some sectors, still far from contracting, this will be quite a challenge, including in the meat sector where it is much less developed than in others such as the dairy sector. I recall that Bruno Le Maire, following the successive milk crises, had adopted it as a basic principle – I think it was even the subject of a legislative provision. I have a lot of faith in contracting. All your speeches, ladies and gentlemen, have shown this: if we want to stop the price war and ensure much more transparency, we must go through contracting. After the contract, I come to a second point: I am very much in favour of the indexation that you have mentioned. And I would point out, in response to Mr Chassaigne, that the debate we will have in June will include the question of whether the mechanism provided for in this bill will be able to change things. You're getting to know me and you know I'm not here to support measures that would ultimately have no impact. My only objective is that the text that will come out of the House, and then out of the Senate, be a text that changes things. It is not a question of turning around the pot – or "cassing the circle," Mr. Chassaigne – I really want our debates to lead to a mechanism that can change the deal. On the other hand, since you know me, you know that for me you must never tell one or the other about carabistyles, like saying, for example, that the law will set all prices, sector by sector, type of production by type of production and type of product by type of product, including by type of food. We had this debate this afternoon, Mr Chassaigne, and we all know that it cannot work that way. But my goal is really to go as far as possible, and everything we do is worth it only if there is really a change in fine, otherwise it's no use. I'm here to give everyone the courage to move forward. I am not sure that you have often heard a Minister of the Republic say that the LME law was in his opinion a mistake and that it was necessary to stop making a social policy on the backs of farmers. I have the political courage to say it because I think it's true and it was a mistake. The third point: cooperatives, which Mrs Leguille-Balloy mentioned. His speech calls for two comments on my part. First of all, we must not put everyone in the same basket. Secondly, the stakes that you have mentioned refer to the sectors, which are well aware of them. I wet the jersey to improve the situation as much as possible but I am not a shareholder of a cooperative. Fourth point: the consumer and the opposition between the call for mirror clauses and what is happening within the European Union. You are a thousand times right, honourable Member, and that is why there is a great deal of progress in this area in the CAP, since the so-called eco-regime, this new agro-environmental mechanism, will be mandatory for all Member States. Necessary but not enough yet, you will say to me, but it is still a very clear political message – even if the implementation will take several years: there are no longer any possible derogations for some Member States, all are involved. My last point will be on what Mr Chassaigne calls the real questions. If the distortion of competition in the Common Market is one, I am replying to that, and it is not a free trade agreement problem because, whatever the rate of customs duties, one must stop a hypocrisy which consists of saying: far from the eyes, far from my environmental or nutritional consciousness. But it would be a lie to you, honourable Member, to say that it is enough for France to decide otherwise. I'd love to, but the fact is, it's not that simple. I believe that, even with your communist roots, you can see that the issue is not only a matter of national or even European level, but also of the WTO, as you can see the benefits that the agricultural world derives from its ability to export. I will conclude by stressing that there is something aberrant about the fact that European rules have always set themselves as an angle for the protection of the European consumer whether or not to ban a product according to its impact on his health or his environment, but not to worry about the rest of the world when things have changed. Thus, by destroying the Amazon by production that does not meet our standards, we destroy the environment in Brazil but also in Europe. That's what we need to change. All countries are obviously involved on this point to varying degrees but, I say again, for me it is really the mother of the battles. We will make substantial progress on this point during the French Presidency. We will soon record our first victories, notably with a delegated act on antibiotics, and I welcome the organic sector that has done a great deal with my ministry, in particular the National Bovine Federation and the Nicolas Hulot Foundation in terms of legal analysis. It must be made a major political issue: it is not ostracism, it is to realize that if we want to accelerate our transition, it must be done with fair and equitable rules for international trade. There is already a course to follow, the Codex Alimentarius, but I'm not even sure that anyone knows him in this room, that is to say his scope... It is therefore necessary to go much further, particularly in the context of the review of European trade policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u310	What about the 250 million?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u311	We're finalizing the models, I'll tell you more as soon as I know, Mr. Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u312	So it'll be Wednesday?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u313	No, it will not be finalized yet, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u314	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-03-O1258.u315	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-two o'clock: Questions on the strategy for reopening cultural sites in the context of the covid pandemic -19. The meeting is adjourned.
