ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u1	The next item is the second reading of the draft constitutional law supplementing Article 1 of the Constitution and relating to the preservation of the environment (No. 4149, 4261).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u2	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u3	It's gonna be all right, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u4	I have the honour to come back to you to defend the draft constitutional amendment supplementing Article 1 of the Constitution and relating to the preservation of the environment. I am not going to go back to the origins of this bill and to the unprecedented experience of the investment of 150 French and French people in the Citizen's Convention for the Climate (CCC): they have presented 149 measures, including the revision of Article 1 of the Constitution. We have already debated more than 18 hours in this Chamber the eighteen words that make up this constitutional bill. As you know, discussions have been polarized, both here and in the Senate, on the use of two verbs, "guarantee" and "combat". The Senate has deleted these two words to confine itself to referring to the Charter of the Environment, that is to say to repeat, little or no,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u5	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u6	... in Article 1 of the Constitution, which is already included in its preamble. In other words, as it stands, this project has become perfectly cosmetic since it is only a re-editing of the law already in force. As you know, in climate matters, it is a serious time, it is not a time for repetition without scope: it is at action and a strong and determined action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u7	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u8	That is why the Government and all groups of the majority propose that you re-establish the more ambitious version of the draft voted on at first reading by your assembly, however, taking up, in a spirit of dialogue and openness towards the Senate, the wording proposed by the Law Commission which aims to replace the verb "combat" with that of "act". In this connection, I would like to thank Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade, rapporteur for the text, and Mrs Émilie Guerel, Member of Parliament, who are behind this proposal, in connection with all the groups of the majority, in particular Elodie Jacquier-Laforge and Christophe Euzet. The Government is happy to accept it and has therefore tabled an amendment to that effect: we have heard the reservations regarding the use of the word "combat" and are ready to take this step towards the Senate in order to arrive at a text that is voted in the same terms by both chambers. Because of its desire to maintain the strength of its ambition, the Government is also keen to maintain in the draft the assertion that France "guarantees the preservation of the environment". At the risk of repeating what I have already had the honour of indicating in this Chamber, I want to explain the meaning and scope of the verb "guarantee" since it is around this word that oppositions are now crystallised. The Senate also argued that this reform would be both unnecessary and dangerous, without knowing how it could be both. But the Government, by some, accepts its choice and that of this majority, that of a strong ambition for the environment, an ambition that must be unequivocally reflected in our founding text. There is no need to be afraid of the word "guarantee": our Constitution already uses it, and the 1946 preamble is neither irresponsible nor dangerous when it states that the nation "guarantees everyone the protection of health, material security, rest and leisure." By the use of these words, the 1946 constituents did not impose automatic State responsibility for any person who was ill or in great precariousness; On the other hand, they laid down the principles of French social protection. Our Constitution must rise to the major environmental challenge facing our country; That is why the Government intends to guarantee the protection of the environment. Guaranteeing a right means giving it the fullness of its effects and allowing it to be respected. Of course, the Government's proposal was not neutral and would have legal effects, which was welcome. Why should the National Assembly, the Senate and then the French people be assembled successively by referendum if it is to pass a text that merely reminds us that the Charter of the Environment applies to public authorities, which has already been the case for 16 years? It wouldn't be up to the stakes. I am thinking in particular of the young people, who are now actively mobilised, particularly during demonstrations for their future and for the environmental cause. What are we going to tell them? That their future is in danger, but that it would be useless to go further because everything would already be done, so that a constitutional revision cosmetic would be sufficient? In short, say to them: "Sleep quietly, young people! I can't solve it. We must assume our responsibility and affirm that the legal scope of environmental protection must evolve. What is an ambition must become a guarantee. Let me turn to the consequences of the draft on administrative responsibility, since this subject was of great concern to some of you at the first reading of the text. The responsibility of the State can already be taken into account in environmental matters: we wish to devote this responsibility of the public authorities further by promoting the protection of the environment to the status of constitutional guarantee and, thus, to create a quasi-obligation of result or an obligation of enhanced means for the public authorities. The aim is to facilitate the burden of proof for the applicants and, conversely, to make it much more difficult for the public person in question to exempt himself or herself from his or her obligations. It is therefore a matter of not satisfying themselves with the shortcomings or inaction of the public authorities in order to condemn them, but of forcing them to act to protect the environment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We must collectively rise to the challenge of climate, and we sincerely hope that the step that we propose to take towards the Senate in the drafting that was its own will lead to a common text, in order to submit it to the French by referendum, as the President of the Republic committed himself to doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u9	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u10	"The tipping point towards irreversible global warming may already be crossed with devastating consequences for the entire planet": these are the conclusions published last week by the MOSAIC mission – multidisciplinary drifting observation for the study of arctic climate – one of the largest expeditions in the North Pole region. For years, scientific missions, reports and alerts have followed each other to tell us the urgency to act. This urgency for the climate lies at the very heart of this constitutional reform. It is it that guides our determination to enhance our constitutional and legal ambition for the fight for the climate. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to give ecology and the defence of climate, the environment and biodiversity its rightful place in our Constitution. Its rightful place is to make it a full and complete constitutional principle; its rightful place is to include it in Article 1 of the Constitution, which establishes the main principles of our Republic. That is the whole issue of the reform that we are considering today at second reading. Before going into the details of the text, I would like clearly to reaffirm before you our objective, of which we have never deviated: to submit, as the keeper of the seals has said, to the vote of all the French by referendum this amendment of the Constitution to integrate the struggle for the climate. In February and March, at the first reading, the majority made a very clear choice, that of respecting the words given to the members of the Citizens' Convention for Climate and that of ecological ambition, by establishing the preservation of the environment, and within it the protection of biological diversity and the fight against climate change, as a full constitutional principle. With the verb "guarantee", we introduce a principle of positive action for the public authorities: who can say that it would not be necessary today? We have also made this choice so that France is the first European state and one of the first countries in the world to include the fight against climate change in its basic law. Would this not be a reason for collective pride for our country? Finally, we have made this choice in order to enable our country to continue its national and international climate action even more forcefully. We cannot be the country of the Paris Agreement, set ambitious goals for the entire planet and not make this will a principle of cardinal action of the action of our Republic. It is a question of coherence and credibility. The Senate majority made a strictly different choice from ours, preferring to torpedoing the text rather than creating the conditions that would allow French expression by referendum: I deeply regret it. The Senate has indeed proposed a new wording of the single article aimed at asserting that France "preserves the environment as well as biological diversity and acts against climate change under the conditions laid down in the 2004 Environmental Charter". Let me ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, as I did in the committee on the legislation on the intentions of the Senate: I repeat this question because the rapporteur of the Senate's Law Commission acknowledged that this new provision was not intended to produce a new legal effect. What would be the point of convoking the French people to decide on a provision whose scope would be merely symbolic? That, in my view, is the hypocrisy of the Senate proposal: our Constitution would be a text with which we could play, to which we could add purely cosmetic provisions merely confirming the existing law. This logic seems all the more meaningless since Ms. Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, who was rapporteur of the draft constitutional law on the Charter of the Environment, seemed to be calling for a new ambition in 2004, stating that "the Charter, far from bringing a definitive, integral and prefabricated solution, inaugurates a vast political movement and launches a legal challenge". It is precisely this movement that we want to continue because the fight for the climate demands it, to the opposite of the conservatism displayed by the senatorial proposal which only weakens the scope of the single article that we are debating. The wording proposed by the Senate tends to include public policies for the preservation of the environment and the fight against climate change only under the conditions already defined by the Environmental Charter. However, this reference would be a source of ambiguity because, as the rapporteur for the text in the Senate has pointed out, the judge is still looking for "the useful effect of a constitutional revision". The legal uncertainty allegedly fought here would be reinforced. Finally, I would like to add that Senators' reference to the Charter of the Environment has no place in section 1 of the Constitution. I recall, if necessary, that the purpose of this article is not to list the texts of the constitutionality bloc, but to express the guiding principles of the Republic; With reference to it, the Senate proposes no more or less than to include in the Constitution that it must apply – supreme tautology, you will agree. In other words, the Senate majority has reduced the proposed constitutional revision to a purely cosmetic reform, which we refuse to accept. Another point of disagreement with the Senate is the deletion of the verb "guarantee", which would lose its full force in the constitutional revision. In this connection, I would point out that the use of the word "guarantee" is not intended to give any form of priority to a constitutional principle, nor does the inclusion in article 1 take precedence over other constitutional norms. On the other hand, it gives ecology its rightful place in our law, a place equivalent to that of other constitutional principles. The choice of the verb 'guarantee', as I said in committee and as Mr Le Garde des Seales has just pointed out, has a threefold justification: it makes it possible to establish a principle of positive action by public authorities in favour of the environment in all public policies; it then allows for the creation of an obligation of enhanced means to extend the responsibility of public actors in environmental matters; Finally, it makes it possible to establish the preservation of the environment as a constitutional principle, which can therefore be invoked against a legislative provision whose purpose would be contrary to that requirement. In accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic to the Citizen's Climate Convention, we have resumed word for word, comma for comma, the formulation of citizens at first reading. At second reading, I would like to reaffirm this ambition while at the same time showing our willingness to move forward with the Senate towards the referendum; So, following the text that we adopted in committee last week, I would like the single article to be reinstated in its first reading in the House, while taking into account the Senate's desire to replace the word "combat" with the word "act" – against climate change. Let us be clear against those who wish to instill doubt: this new wording does not distort the original ambition. The wording is always based on the verb "guarantee"; At the same time, by replacing the word "act" with the word "combat", we retain the Senate's contribution and take into account the suggestion of the Council of State. That is why, faithful to the spirit of overtaking and gathering that drives us, we propose a new formulation that will allow us to find the way to an agreement with the Senate. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I want to defend in front of you: the desire to move forward, not to divert attention from the climate emergency and to enhance our constitutional requirement. I hope that many of us can gather around this objective. In the wake of elections marked by abstention, I would like to conclude by reflecting on the subject that brings us together today. All political parties in the country call for a democratic start. All parties rightly call for a growing involvement of citizens in political life. We have here, from the Citizens' Convention for the Climate to the referendum, to Parliament, a model of what could be participatory democracy in France. I do not believe that it is up to us, parliamentarians, to put ourselves in the midst of the citizen and presidential will to go to the referendum. A second reflection concerns the abstention of young people in absolutely stratospheric proportions. 82 per cent of the 18-35 year-olds abstained, and this figure rises to 87 per cent among the 18-25 year-olds. However, in the youth of France, there is a strong will to engage, particularly for the climate which is the struggle of our century and one of the main concerns of the 18-30 years. In this sense, the text we are looking at is crucial: it responds to the environmental emergency and, in part, to the democratic urgency. Adopting this text in a version almost identical – to a word – to that of the Citizen's Climate Convention, and this in order to achieve a referendum is to show our citizens that they are full actors in the democratic life of the country. Let us live up to this requirement by being able to share the same ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u11	In the general debate, Mrs Émilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u12	Since the adoption of the Environment Charter in 2004, the proliferation and intensification of climate phenomena, the acceleration of desertification and the rise of sea and ocean levels, the development of natural disasters and the disappearance of an increasing number of plant and animal species have changed the situation and require a strong response. This is based, in particular, on the inclusion, after an unprecedented democratic process, of the preservation of the environment, the protection of biological diversity and the fight against climate change in our fundamental law. While this reform extends the 2005 and 2008 constitutional revisions on the environment, it follows an innovative and unique procedure. Indeed, the great national debate highlighted the French's dual demand for more participatory democracy and a fairer ecological transition. In order to meet these expectations, the President of the Republic has chosen to launch a Citizens' Convention for the Climate, the first exercise of this kind in terms of its scope and the scope of the Convention. In an unprecedented exercise of deliberative democracy, 150 citizens drawn by lot, coming from all the territories and from all backgrounds, representative of the richness of French diversity, worked for nine months and met dozens of experts in order to propose concrete measures to meet the climate challenge in terms of ecological transition and to accelerate the fight against climate change. At first reading, we enshrined the preservation of the environment and, within it, the protection of biological diversity and the fight against climate change as a full constitutional principle. We intend to go even further than the current texts and jurisprudence by making environmental conservation not only a constitutional objective, but indeed a principle of constitutional value. In fact, an objective of constitutional value involves only an obligation of means and requires, in order to be achieved, the intervention of the legislator, where the constitutional rule has an imperative character. This normative increase will make it possible to better reconcile environmental protection with other constitutional principles. It is therefore necessary that the environmental issue is at the forefront of our fundamental text, at the heart of the other constitutionally guaranteed principles, placed at the top of the French legal order. As the rapporteur has pointed out at the moment, in order for environmental concerns to inner each public policy, we wish to maintain the verb "guarantee", which makes the text legally binding. The consequences of using this verb are not neutral, and that is our will. First of all, it introduces a principle of positive action for local and national public authorities, establishing a constitutional right to the environment. Secondly, it imposes on them a quasi-obligation of results for the preservation of the environment, which is part of the contemporary jurisprudential dynamic, as well as a quasi-obligation of means, to encourage them to fight climate change effectively. By creating this guarantee at the expense of the public authorities, we are a useful complement to Article 2 of the Environment Charter, which states that "everyone has the duty to take part in the preservation and improvement of the environment". As you will have understood, maintaining the word "guarantee" in this article is essential, because our goal is to have an ambitious text that meets the ecological and democratic challenges of the 21st century. By adopting this text, we will make France the first European state, and one of the first countries in the world, to include the fight against climate change in its fundamental law, which will demonstrate our willingness to continue our action, especially international action, against climate change. This is a fundamental and decisive step forward. At first reading, we defended the text of the Citizen's Climate Convention; When we examined the text at second reading, we chose to reaffirm this ambition, but also to take into account the will of the Senate to move towards the referendum, replacing the verb "combat" with the verb "act". The Council of State had recommended this, in an opinion delivered on 14 January 2021. Since 2017, our legislative activity has demonstrated that the environmental issue is a priority of the President of the Republic and the majority. We have accelerated the ecological transition with the adoption of concrete and pragmatic measures, such as the commitment to an exit from fossil fuels to achieve carbon neutrality, the inclusion in the law of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions within 10 years, the closure of coal-fired power plants by 2022, the creation of a High Council for Climate Change or the creation of the French Biodiversity Office. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge also applauds]] Today, we have the opportunity and the collective responsibility to achieve this ambition – by accelerating the fight against climate change, by strengthening the protection of biological diversity and by materializing France's commitment to mobilize for the environment – but also to make our democracy live. For all these reasons, I invite you to vote for this ambitious and fundamental text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u13	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u14	It is a pity that you did not return to the genesis of the text, Mr. Keeper of the Seals:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u15	It's starting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u16	...it would have allowed us to talk about the original sin, that is, of course, the conditions under which the first round of debate was concluded. We had mostly abstained on this bad text, because we thought it was for the French people to say no by referendum. We agreed on sixteen words out of eighteen. You did not want to see it as a form of opening up the opposition, and you hung on to two words. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the guard of the seals and the majority of us had rejected our attempts to correct a text that was ill-calibrated in legal terms because of the risk of the word "guarantee". We were then relying on the advice of the Council of State, and we warned you that the Senate would reject the text with the same arguments; The rest of history has made us right, and we have returned to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, you did not read the Sunday Journal in which Gérard Larcher explained his position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u17	Ah, I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u18	You were right about the rest of the world. I'm told you're now reading Voice of the North...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u19	What a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u20	... or rather, since this morning, Today or Le Parisien,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u21	Ah, the Parisian!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u22	...because you're back – and maybe tomorrow you'll read the JDD. In any case, we have come back to square one, with a largely revised text. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant exclaimed]] I think you are ignoring the scope of a constitutional review exercise. If I had to make a metaphor, it would be the choice of a child's first name. Dad can have in mind the most beautiful name in the world, if mom says no, it's no. Well, the constitutional review is a little the same thing. You can have the best idea in the world, for it to pass, the Senate must say yes. The constitutional review is like tango – sorry, I didn't find a dance in Pas-de-Calais – and it dances together. In order to save you time, we propose that you vote in the Senate, which replaces the word "combat" with the word "act" and the word "guarantee" with the word "promote". Do you want to fight the Senate or act with us for a referendum? Do you want to assure the President of the Republic that his version will be preserved, or do you want to promote an agreement? You regret the cosmetic nature of the proposed provisions: indeed, since the Charter of the Environment is already in the Constitution, all this was not necessary. We've already told you, but you seem to find out. I understood that you were working by keywords: at first reading, it was "almost a result" – that is, you don't have a result, but it's almost the same as if you had one. Now it's "cosmetic", which takes us to the beauty care side. Finally, with you, we go around the dictionary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u23	Always as pleasant...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u24	In order to move forward, I propose, on a personal and exploratory basis, two paths that are better than your half-proposal, which is legally approximate and politically sterile. [[Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge protested]] It's a bit like Pascal's bet: either the Council of State is right about the words "combat" and "guarantee" – in this case, according to legal reasoning, you take the Council of State, the whole Council of State, just the Council of State – or you have a political vision and you say to yourself: "Since the Senate wants such and such a word, I repeat everything it wants. You take half of what the Council of State says – by retaining its observations on the verb "combat" but not on the verb "guarantee" – and half of what the Senate says. This leads to a complex judgment of Solomon at the end of which you end up cutting off the baby, which is not the best option. For my part, I will make two proposals which are not cosmetic, by means of amendments which, I am sure, Mr Keeper of the Seals, you will like. If you do not want the Senate version, one of my amendments would allow you to go back to the wording proposed in the constitutional bill for a renewal of democratic life, which Édouard Philippe and Nicole Belloubet had tabled in August 2019, on behalf of Emmanuel Macron, in order to include in the Constitution that France "promotes the preservation of the environment and biological diversity and acts against climate change".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u25	I wasn't there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u26	You will not be able to say that this project of La République en marche is only cosmetic! Otherwise, Édouard Philippe and Nicole Belloubet would never have tabled it in Parliament, which they respect so much! The wording is necessarily good, since it's yours. In a gesture of openness, we propose that you adopt it, which would satisfy the Senate. You say you want ambition. Well, if you don't want my first proposal, I'm making a second one – it's the last one, be careful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u27	It's hard to do more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u28	Instead of "guaranteeing" something that it is superfétoire to recall, we propose to write that France "guarantees the reduction of CO emissions". Admit that this proposal is not cosmetic: in terms of commitment, it is hard! Currently, if you "guarantee" a lot of things, you do not want to guarantee the effects of the fight against global warming. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] At a time when the French are disinterested in democracy, Parliament must shoulder its responsibilities. Returning to Genesis, the decisions of participatory democracy are not the word of the Gospel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u29	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u30	It's gonna go up a little bit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u31	That's nice of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u32	The Charter of the Environment has not aroused popular and doctrinal enthusiasm, as Elisabeth Zoller and Wanda Mastor, professor emeritus at the University of Paris 2 and professor at the University of Toulouse 1 Capitole, have recently pointed out. Following the 1958 Constitution by the Constitution Act of 1 March 2005, the Charter of the Environment, although of constitutional value, has "an obscure side and a relative scope". The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats therefore understands the will of the Citizens' Convention to include in Article 1 of the Constitution that France "guarantees the preservation of the environment and biological diversity and the fight against climate change". While the Charter enshrines the right of man to live in a living planet and, therefore, to demand that everyone consent to the necessary efforts to achieve this, it must be noted that, since 2005, the degradation of our environment has unfortunately continued. The land is affected by the triple threat of climate change, pollution and loss of biodiversity. As you know, our planet is experiencing the sixth mass extinction in its history, the first caused by human activity. We are all individually and collectively responsible for this. The Secretary-General of the United Nations said a few days ago that the planet would quickly reach "a point of no return", because of the destruction of forests and the pollution of rivers and oceans, before adding that fortunately, the earth is "resilient" and that "we still have time to remedy the damage caused". For this to happen, public action must be part of an obligation of result, paving the way for everyone's contribution, for individual actions that will be part of proactive public policies. Our group therefore supports this constitutional bill. We must lead the way by laying down strong principles, by strengthening the constitutional arsenal of environmental protection, to show our determination to place this objective, this urgency, at the heart of the principles that guide our Republic. Our group welcomes the fact that the President of the Republic has taken into account the proposal of the Citizens' Convention, which had committed himself to submit it to Parliament. This exercise must encourage us to better link participatory democracy and representative democracy, without opposing them, of course, because they pursue the same goal of improving our democratic functioning. In accordance with the undertaking of the Head of State, the text will be submitted to a referendum, in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 89 of the Constitution, if it is adopted in identical terms by both chambers. Parliament's legislative competence, which is one of its three constitutional tasks, should not, however, be diminished or erased. It must be part of a democratic partition in which our citizens occupy a place, participate in our work in a more active, transparent and concrete way. The French have many legitimate environmental expectations. We must listen to them and act with them to build a safe, healthy and sustainable environment. It is a right, which must be effective. As Mr Custody has pointed out, our group has therefore tabled an amendment to make the drafting of Article 1 even more appropriate for this purpose. In accordance with the recommendations of the Council of State, and in order to secure the text legally, the word "combat" should be replaced by the word "act". We had already tabled an amendment on this point, at first reading, when we examined the text in the Law Committee, and the Senate endorsed this amendment. The re-establishment of this wording would ensure both the effects of the text and its legal certainty – that is, the substance and form of the text. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] While the global environmental crisis causes more than 9 million premature deaths each year, threatening the health and dignity of billions of people, each State has a responsibility to take concrete action to realize the fundamental right to an environment of a quality that enables us to live in dignity and well-being. By voting for this constitutional bill, our country will bring an additional stone to this building.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u33	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u34	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u35	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u36	Incorporating environmental protection in Article 1 of the Constitution would send a strong signal to open the way to real change, to a world after we command the state of the planet. Consideration of the text calls for both procedural and substantive comments. On the procedure, the text submitted by the Government took almost word for word that of the Citizen Climate Convention: "The Republic guarantees the preservation of biodiversity and the environment and fights against climate change. In order to become final, this amendment of the Constitution must be adopted in identical terms by the Senate and the Assembly, before being submitted to referendum, in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 89 of the Constitution: this is what the President of the Republic committed himself to the Citizens' Convention. This decision of the Head of State obviously questions the sincerity of his commitment to a referendum and the temptation of the Government to hold Parliament responsible for failure. This commitment therefore questions us about the instrumentalization of our assembly and the referendum tool for political purposes. All this does not help to create the conditions for a calm debate. Personally, I would have liked this proposal for a constitutional revision to be adopted in the framework of a Congress, which also allows for a third reading – all the more so since the proposal under discussion is already the result of a citizen consultation. Knowing that a referendum is commonly turned into a plebiscite, the risk of a negative outcome cannot be swept away by a turn of hands. And if, you will tell me, this is first of all the matter of the power in place, it is also ours, because a non-opposed for political reasons, after a health crisis – after the very serious one, yellow vests – could be considered as a refusal to continue action in favour of the environment and the fight against global warming. On the merits, many on the right question the usefulness of this constitutional bill, arguing that the Environmental Charter, which already belongs to the constitutional bloc, already fulfils a similar function and that the principle of environmental protection has been recognized as an objective of constitutional value. For my part, I repeat the reply of the Council of State, in its opinion of 14 January 2021: "The priority nature of the environmental cause, in relation to one of the most fundamental issues facing humanity, justifies its place in this article alongside the founding principles of the Republic. This statement is all the more valuable as it is part of a very critical opinion of this constitutional bill. Others stirred up the red cloth by arguing that by including environmental concerns in article 1 of our Constitution, it would be given a pre-eminence over other constitutional norms. One would be tempted to say, "Why not? However, the legal analysis confirms the absence of a pre-eminence of one constitutional principle over another in this text – so there is no reason to denounce a hierarchy. As a result of the Citizen Climate Convention, we are a few who have proposed to raise the principle of non-regression or constant improvement to the constitutional level. However, neither this proposal of the Convention nor our amendments have been implemented. Moreover, the scope of parliamentary reflection seems almost limited, here, to a semantic debate on four verbs: "guarantee" against "preservation", "combat against action". According to the version adopted at second reading in the Committee on Laws – a version which, with regard to a draft constitutional revision, is not the one before us at the sitting – France "guarantees the preservation of the environment and biodiversity and acts against climate change". Thus, the commission retained the verb "act", introduced by the Senate, but restored the term "guarantee". We agree on this point: the verb "guarantee", which is repeated in the Basic Law, would involve more responsibility of the State in the field of the environment. The choice of this word also corresponds to a proposal of the Socialist and related group defended during the examination of the draft constitutional revision in 2018, and to the proposal of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you made a commitment at first reading to defend this term and its assurance in the commitment to the environmental cause. Moreover, the obligation of result, which is not included in the current version of the text, should not be seen as a problem, but as a political objective that citizens and future generations are asking for. Yes, our house is still burning. Don't let's sit there watching her burn up. What about biodiversity conservation? In less than fifty years, its erosion has accelerated dramatically; 60% of wildlife species have disappeared; CO concentration in the atmosphere has increased by 44% over the past 150 years. Our actions so far are insufficient to contain warming below 2 degrees Celsius, while it is a threat multiplier and an accelerator of instability. In conclusion, whatever the outcome of this text, it cannot hide the immense task that awaits us, legislators, on a daily basis, when we examine the texts. We must carry out fundamental reforms that prevent the regression of our law. We do not always take the road: I am thinking, for example, of the reform of the interim procedure, which should allow the judge and the citizens to act to prevent irreversible damage. We defended this reform in the context of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, but the Government did not want to allow the majority to take this step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u37	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u38	Following the major national debate, the President of the Republic decided to create the now famous Citizen Climate Convention, organized by the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC), in order to raise the environmental concern in the Constitution. Hence the idea of a constitutional bill and its possible adoption by the French people through the referendum. To be honest, the idea of giving a constitutional place to the environment is not new since, since 1 March 2005, the Environmental Charter has been part of the constitutionality block, that is to say, the texts that the Constitutional Council is responsible for enforcing – in January 2020, it has recognized the protection of the environment as an objective of constitutional value. It could therefore be concluded that the present proposal to amend Article 1 of the Constitution to include environmental protection may have only symbolic significance. However, amending the Constitution, by which we make a society, remains a solemn legal act. To include environmental protection as a major objective in Article 1 is a true social project which the Group can only welcome. That was said, at first reading, it was decided to respect the wording proposed by the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, although the Council of State, in its opinion of 14 January 2021, had advocated three amendments to it. The first, adopted in the original version of the bill, was to replace the term "biodiversity" with "biodiversity". The second, which was not retained in the original version of the bill, was to replace the word "combat" with the word "act". Our group took up this proposal from the first reading, but we agreed that the original wording should be preserved. Third, the Council of State suggested replacing the word "guarantee" with the word "preservation". We have, however, followed the Government and the rapporteur with a view to keeping the word "guarantee". Indeed, the latter seems to us to constitute a more substantial commitment, which is truly capable of generating rights for the environment – which this revision is intended to defend. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mr. Pacôme Rupin also applauds]] The text moved a little away from its original wording following its passage to the Senate. In some respects, his new version seems somewhat tautological. In a sense, it weakens the logic of the text. The solution of restoring the original version while replacing the word "combat" with the word "act", in accordance with our group's original proposal, seems quite appropriate. That is why the Working Together Group will be very supportive of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u39	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u40	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u41	We are again meeting in session to discuss the constitutional revision resulting from the Citizens' Convention, which was primarily a political response to a hybrid social movement, in the wake of the great debate desired by the President of the Republic. For our part, we remain dubious about the motivations of this constitutional bill. The IDU and independent group, a pioneer in this field, is very committed to all environmental issues. It's not like watermelon: green on the outside and red on the inside – I'm not targeting anyone! We therefore have no objection in principle to the addition of an environmental reference to Article 1 of the Constitution. Climate change is the challenge of our time. In the face of the depletion of non-renewable energy and natural resources, in the face of climate change and the growth of the world's population, our current functioning is unfortunately not sustainable and unable to respond to the environmental and societal challenges of the world. We must therefore accelerate our action to limit our impact on the climate and our environment. With regard to the bill itself, the Government was still unclear on the concrete impact of the change envisaged in the Constitution. For many civil society actors, this constitutional change will not change anything. Thus, we believe that writing our environmental concern in the Environmental Charter would have more value than inserting it in Article 1 of the Constitution. The Council of State also notes that this inclusion in article 1 of the Constitution is symbolic. In addition, the Constitutional Council, in its decision of 31 January 2020, strengthened the preservation of the environment – hitherto a mere reason of general interest – by making it an objective of constitutional value, which gives it greater weight to public rights and freedoms. On the other hand, if we reverse the reasoning and consider that we are discussing not a mere declaration of principle but a declaration of legal scope, then the question arises as to who will make the law tomorrow. Whole sections of our legislation may be reviewed by the constitutional judge and not by us, the legislator. That is what motivated the opposition of several members of our group at first reading. The Council of State had drawn the Government's attention to the potential consequences of the use of the term "guarantee" and requested clarification on that point. Despite your assertions, we are still waiting for them, unfortunately the debates have not been able to shed light on us so far. That is why the Senate has completely rewritten the single article, in a way that is more respectful of our constitutional bloc and the other major objectives of our Constitution. Despite your attempt at conciliation, Mr rapporteur, we fear and believe that an agreement cannot be reached between the two chambers. In short, we are already trying to apply the existing law and improving its control. Again, concrete measures, such as massive community-related investments, would have a far greater impact on the fight against climate change than an amendment to the Constitution, especially since the future of this revision seems to us to be very uncertain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u42	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u43	The President of the Republic undertook to hold a referendum. Of which act. We are ten months away from the next presidential election, which raises doubts about the real possibility of holding this referendum before the next quinquennium. Finally, the Government considered that this amendment to article 1 was a priority. For our part, we regret that attempts at institutional and/or constitutional reform, on equally important subjects, have not been successful since 2017: the recognition of the white vote, territorial differentiation, etc. How can we consider calling on our fellow citizens to vote for a referendum when yesterday the participation in local elections was of historical weakness, as has been recalled? It is not by promising this kind of fuzzy reform and without any concrete impact on the lives of the inhabitants that we will make democracy live. The IDU and independent group, which had abstained mostly at first reading, remains attentive and lucid on these issues but remains dubious and sceptical about this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u45	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u46	It is not a micro-reform of the Constitution that will change anything to achieve our environmental objectives; Nor will it help us to improve our acceptance of the necessary measures to be taken. All this looks like a bad political soap opera. History is known: proposal of the Citizens' Convention, announcement of a "without filter" resumption by the President of the Republic, followed by differences between majorities in the Senate and in the Assembly. This scenario is illustrated by much too large strings and expected rebounds. It could be classified as a political comedy if it was not discussed in the background of one of the major – if not the main – issues of the 21st century: the fight against climate change, pollution and the collapse of biodiversity. I regret that, on these crucial issues, the good intentions displayed do not conceal any political calculations, and above all that we do not consider the value of reforming our Constitution in depth rather than considering a modest addition to the limited impact. At first reading, here the Government and the majority were deaf to proposals for improvement from all the banks. Then, unsurprisingly, the Senate made several changes. Last rebound in date: a compromise ersatz replacing the verb "combat" with the verb "act". Let's guess the end of the story. In the absence of an agreement between the Assembly and the Senate, this constitutional revision will be forgotten, as the previous two. Each party will then be able to accuse the other of being at the origin of this failure, forgetting that consensus with the Senate is indispensable for constitutional reform. The consensus is not, as we know, the strong of your majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u47	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u48	On the substance, the question arises as to what effect environmental conservation will have in the Constitution. To date, she has no clear answer. The constitutionalists themselves struggle to agree. Some consider that the amendment of Article 1e r as drafted will not change anything, absolutely nothing. Others, on the contrary, expressed concern that the public authorities were subject to a quasi-obligation to produce results. Moreover, it is embarrassing to adopt an amendment to the supreme norm with such unknowns. For my part, I see above all a symbolic measure, supposed to mask the blatant lack of ambition and results of your successive laws. The protection of the environment, the fight against climate change and for biodiversity need more financial resources, public policies and disruptions than small constitutional reforms of limited scope. We could also have taken advantage of this revision of the Constitution to bring about a profound reform of our decision-making system. As we all know, major environmental decisions can only be made in the context of collective ownership of the major reforms to be carried out. The hyperconcentration of powers in the hands of the President of the Republic alone leads to too many errors, to the making of disconnected decisions, therefore unpopular. The yellow vest crisis is an eloquent example of this. It could have been avoided if the planned increase in fuel taxes had been understood and accompanied by counterparties and redistribution measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u49	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u50	The effectiveness of our decisions depends on the need for independent impact assessments and the generalisation of consultation with our citizens and the intermediary bodies. It also requires massive decentralization and strengthening of the role of Parliament. With the Citizens' Convention, the EESC could have formed the crucible of these new forms of participation in public action and of guaranteeing the quality of impact assessments. These new practices had to be incorporated into our Constitution. This constitutional reform could have caused an indispensable shock of decentralization allowing us to better accompany the ecological shift. We could have strengthened Parliament by providing it with real bodies of expertise and control to match its role. In short, we could have been better equipped to carry out environmental policies accepted by our fellow citizens! The draft constitutional reform that we are considering does not carry those ambitions, alas. However, since the Coppens Committee prepared the Environment Charter, the climate crisis has worsened considerably and climate disputes have multiplied. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] We can no longer content ourselves with measures with a high symbolic scope, but with hypothetical consequences. We look forward to a democratic renewal that will enable us to face the climate challenge for the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u51	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u52	President, minister, colleagues, on ecology, the more you say, the less you worry! It is even troubling that a text can be so well suited to the expression "paying for words". Let's break this prank, and let's say what it is. There is no point in this bill, since more ambitious provisions are contained in the Charter of the Environment, the value of which is constitutional. This bill is poorly written, and therefore legally dangerous, so that it could allow polluters to evade the obligations set out in the Environmental Charter. It is insufficient anyway because it does not contain the principle of non-regression – but it is true that after the return of neonicotinoids it would be a shame to deny it! Finally, the referendum announced in great pomp by the President of the Republic will not take place. That is for this text, which is just a waste of time for anyone who does not wish to participate in your communication operation. Let's move on to the essentials. As we speak, the UN warns: "The drought is about to become the next pandemic and there is no vaccine to cure it. Drought directly affects more than 1.5 billion people worldwide. Since you're only attached to the numbers, you should know that it has caused $124 billion in economic losses in the last 20 years. As we speak, and as the heat peak reached 40 degrees last week in some French cities, a meteorologist says that our summers will seem cold compared to those waiting for us in 2040. As we speak, our marine universe absorbs more CO and heat, temperatures rise to the surface of the water, and ocean salinity rates rise. As we speak, a huge iceberg is floating off Antarctica and the summer ice pack is gradually disappearing in the Arctic. As we speak, France is still not respecting its international commitments and the French state has been condemned for climate inaction. The more you say, the less you worry about it, and the more climate disruption accelerates! The Minister of Ecology himself admitted: "It would be a huge symbolic step for environmental protection to be included in Article 1 of our founding text. Ms. Pompili is right. This is a symbol. What's convenient with symbols is that they don't cost you anything. What is practical is that they do not ask for the release of human and financial resources. The symbols do not call into question our mode of production and consumption. The symbols do not trigger the ecological and solidarity bifurcation that we need. But, above all, symbols do not oblige you to take your responsibilities! In Guadeloupe, where I have just visited as chairman of a committee of inquiry, the situation is scandalous. There, colleagues, children miss a month to a month and a half of school a year because there is no water in the institution. In Guadeloupe, families have not had water for three years, and sometimes even for a longer time. The inhabitants are exhausted from having to wear cans constantly, tired of showering with friends, tired of having to get up at night to hope to collect a net of water, and tired of doing laundry at the automatic laundromat. [[MM. Erwan Balanant and Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer protest]] In Guadeloupe, the overwhelming majority of the population is poisoned by chlordecone, the cocktail effects of which are poorly studied and traces of which are found in water. In Guadeloupe, when they intervene to extinguish a fire, the firefighters have the ball in their stomach to the idea that there is no water to control it. In Guadeloupe, ecosystems are at risk: 65 per cent of the water resource goes into leaks due to outdated pipeline systems; groundwaters are overexploited and are at risk of salinisation; 50% of bathing water is of poor quality. The Regional Health Agency informs that, in ten years' time, if nothing is done, there will no longer be a single permitted bathing place due to water pollution. Some sewer mouths flow directly into the sea, while children bathe a few meters away. These are Betty's words: "Tell them we're suffering. Here, we drink shitty water, and when I say shitty water, it means fecal matter. What right do people have to live in such a way? I wish the powerful would at least pretend to have something to give a fuck about! Yes, you have nothing to do with it; Yeah, you're just some kind of environmental scammer. What is the meaning of your circumvolutions on the verbs "guarante", "combat", "preserv" or what do I know, in an unnecessary bill, when hundreds of thousands of our compatriots do not have water and an ecological disaster is approaching? That is why this bill is a farce: you are once again squeaking the Constitution, even though the fundamental rights of French and French people are not guaranteed. It's too late! No one can believe in your number of ecologists yet. The mediocre bill to combat global warming and build resilience to its effects, to which you will refer me, has already shown its failure, because you have torpedoed it. The truth is this: you are fundamentally unable to respond to the climate disaster other than by rushing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u53	Thank you, MP!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u54	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u55	For the second time, we are convened to debate the constitutional bill. Unsurprisingly, the Senate reviewed the Government's copy and rewritten the text. Following the non-compliant vote, the Prime Minister took the decision, despite everything, to "walk" the text – I quote – and to refer it to the National Assembly again, in order to restore the original intentions of the Government. He suggested that he would advise of the fate of the text. As they say in my home – and everywhere in France – the announcement of this referendum is a big one in the wing; The thing was pretty predictable. The head of state and the senatorial majority each play their score, finely written: the first instrumentalizes the climate issue, the second deploys arguments aimed at flattering the most climatosceptical fringes of his electorate. Finally, the Senate chose to be the best alibi of the President of the Republic, with a new renunciation that will leave a bitter taste. However, we are told that this new version of the text is a step towards the Senate – to take up the rapporteur's remarks – since some formulations are revisited, one of which is quite fundamental. It is not certain, Mr Keeper of the Seals, that this proposal, which endorses a recommendation from the Council of State, is sufficient to create the conditions for a consensus for a long-dead referendum. We are here, with a sad mine, in the face of what must be called a legislative vaudeville. We would have preferred to talk about all those years in which real reductions in environmental law have accumulated, about the climate and resilience law, which mobilized us a few months ago and which we, for our part, denounced the lack of ambition in space and time. All this has led to the removal of major questions on the benches of the left: the exceeding of property rights and the freedom to undertake. Within the framework of a constitution that remains fundamentally liberal, they hinder what is the great question of our time: what about common goods – water, soil, biodiversity, etc. –, so sensitive to the climate issue? Finally, you refused to include the amendments relating to the principle of non-regression of environmental law, which could be imposed on administrative acts and constitutional judges. The Coppens Commission was mentioned; I admit I haven't read the report. But I know that Mr. Yves Coppens, like all prehistorians, is sensitive to the symbols that appear on the walls of the caves and that we do not understand. There are others whose meaning we end up not grasping anymore, although they are composed of words. In the end, we will no longer grasp the meaning of your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u56	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u57	Here we are immersed in an uncomfortable situation. We exercise our power as constituents, the most important of which is given to us by the Constitution, without knowing once again whether the debates will come to an end. The subject, however, is of major importance. Contrary to what some say, this is not just a semantic quarrel; There are two visions of the environmental issue and the role of the state at stake. To include in the Constitution that France guarantees the preservation of the environment and biological diversity is a major paradigm shift; Article 1 of the Treaty establishes the responsibility of the public authorities in the face of the urgency which we know. So far, too often we have put the notion of responsibility on individuals: the ecology of the small gestures of everyday life has thus turned into an ecology of guilt. Changes in behaviour, consumption, mobility and daily usage are very important, because they materialize collective awareness, but without a real ambition of the public power, without structural change, they will be in vain. We have also, in the recent review of the climate and resilience bill, legislated to appeal to the good will of companies, to be willing to apply virtuous provisions, without any coercion. Incentives cannot replace the responsibility of the State to impose new rules of the game to meet our commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Mr Keeper of the seals, the temperature is rising, the pressure is also rising: recent decisions of administrative justice are in this direction. It is no longer just a matter of judging what the State is doing, but also what the State is not doing. In a decision of 19 November 2020, the Council of State, having heard an appeal from the commune of Grande-Synthe against the State's implicit refusal to take additional measures to influence the greenhouse gas emission curve, noted that the emission ceilings set by France had been regularly exceeded. You have still not convinced: the public rapporteur reminded him Friday, 11 June, by urging the Government to take all the necessary measures in the next nine months, so that France can meet its objectives. In a judgment of 3 February 2021 on "The Affair of the Century", the Paris Administrative Court, after establishing a causal link between the existence of an ecological damage related to climate change and the failure of the State to comply with its international commitments, considered that the partial failure of the State to comply with the objectives it had set itself incurred its responsibility. Finally, the complaint of the activist Camille Étienne and the MEP Pierre Larrouturou to the Court of Justice of the Republic for climate inaction follows the same logic. This responsibility is not "aberrant", to use the term used by the rapporteur in the Senate, when one knows the path that remains to be taken in an extremely limited time. What is aberrant is that we want to block these advances by conservatism and political tactics. Let us take a little perspective on how far we still have to go: I come from a constituency where many countries have set out in their constitution much stronger and more binding environmental ambitions for public authorities than our own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u58	Considering the results...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u59	In Colombia, the Constitution states that the State has a duty to protect the diversity and integrity of the environment. Similar formulations, creating genuine State responsibility, can be found in several countries in the region, such as Ecuador and Bolivia. In Chile, the newly elected constituents, under the leadership of the independent elected representatives, reflect on the drafting of the first fully ecological constitution. In particular, it could include reference to the finiteness of planetary resources. We too, deputies of the collective Ecology, Democracy, Solidarity (EDS), wanted to include the notion of planetary limits in the Constitution. It is a major scientific notion to combat the peril that threatens us. Is it worth recalling that, according to several reports, France has already exceeded six of the nine planetary limits? We have also advocated amendments to introduce the principle of non-regression; It would prevent us from adopting laws that break the law of the environment: let us remember that you have led to a major environmental regression, by reintroducing neonicotinoids last September. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] The inconsistencies are even more obvious with regard to the climate and resilience bill: would it become unconstitutional, according to the wording you are defending today? The question arises. We have a historic opportunity: to adopt this constitutional reform while reviewing, at second reading, the ambition of the climate and resilience bill, to meet our own environmental objectives. It's not too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u60	The general debate is closed, we will begin consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u61	Oh, no, it's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u62	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u63	Why "Ah good"?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u64	Doesn't that make any sense?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u65	I now call the single section of the constitutional bill, on which the two assemblies have not been able to arrive at the same text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u66	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u67	I wished to take the floor to recall that in 2018, the review of the constitutional review had given rise to many debates on article 1 of the Constitution. I am delighted that today we can anchor in the law, at the constitutional level, a strengthening of policies for the protection of the environment. In our territories, action against climate change has a real impact. I regret, however, that we did not take advantage of the examination of this text to include in Article 1 everything that we had agreed at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u68	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u69	These were key issues, including the inclusive nature of society. I recall that after a long debate, our Assembly had decided to delete the word "race" from the Constitution. For us, who argue that there is only one human race, this amendment to Article 1e r was a historic step forward, which it was time to act on. It was also a question of promoting gender equality,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u70	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u71	... by replacing the word "race" with "sex", consistent with sustainable development goals. Consideration of this bill could have been an opportunity to adopt this amendment. At first reading, an amendment to that effect had been declared admissible; I regret that the funnel principle has prevented it from still being so today. I would therefore ask you to bring this project to a conclusion in the context of a forthcoming constitutional review. In conclusion, this text represents a major step forward, but the approach loses its coherence, due to the lack of an amendment to Article 34, which would have made it possible to detail what we expect from the inclusion in Article 1 of the fight against climate change and the preservation of the environment. From a position that may be too passive, that of fighting, we are going to move to a more active and offensive position, namely, to act against climate change, which affects much of the overseas island territories, particularly in the Pacific.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u72	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u73	It was tabled by Mr. Gérard Leseul. Because this is an important constitutional amendment, this amendment seeks to create an Environmental Defender, following the example of the Defender of Rights, established as part of the major constitutional reform of 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u75	Unfavorable opinion. The Prime Minister has given a mission to this effect to Mrs Cécile Muschotti. We will be able to discuss it when its conclusions are delivered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u76	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u77	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u78	I have before me eleven amendments, Nos 2, 25, 33, 14, 15, 1, 32, 6, 10, 11 and 34, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1, 32, 6, 10 and 11 are identical; They are the subject of eleven sub-amendments Nos. 48, 36, 37, 43, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44 and 46. Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u79	It aims to rewrite the whole of the single article, to make it consistent with the concept of ecological republic. It is a question of re-establishing the verb "guarantee"; to include the principle of non-regression of the preservation of the environment, specifying that the Republic ensures the necessary "constant improvement" of the environment and biological diversity; Finally, replace the words "climate change" with "climate change", in accordance with the opinion of the High Council for Climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u80	On sub-amendment No 48, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u81	I said that this text was pure communication. The list of renunciations grows as the quinquennium continues: glyphosate has not been banned, despite the promise of the President of the Republic on Twitter; neonicotinoids were again allowed; the State has been convicted of inaction in the fight against climate change, which proves its lack of action; the railway public service is gradually being destroyed; the CETA or Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), has been ratified while you have negotiated several free trade treaties – and I am passing. You are defending this bill because you are alone in believing that you are still environmentalists; 110 civil society organisations have pointed to the shortcomings and lack of ambition of this text, allegedly resulting from the Citizen's Climate Convention. The EESC and the High Council for Climate Affairs have done the same, like the citizens of the Convention, who have given their proposals a note of 2.5 out of 10 – you will admit that this is a very poor score. The purpose of this amendment is to include the principle of non-regression in Article 1 of the Constitution. He will be the only one defended by the group La France insoubted: retraced in fact that on the common goods,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u82	But it's the funnel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u83	... and the one on planning, which aimed to allow us to re-approve the long time by ceasing to delay the deadlines as the objectives are not achieved; the request to ratify the free trade agreements by referendum. Non-regression must at least be explicitly included if you want to be more ambitious than the Environment Charter, of which Article 2 already implies this principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u84	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u85	Since the beginning of the discussions, you have stressed the importance of the verb "guarantee", which was included in the original wording: "It guarantees the preservation of the environment and biodiversity and fights against climate change. » I have asked you several times, yet I still have not understood: if the word "guarantee" is so important, why not apply it to climate change, which is at the heart of your commitment but is not included in the Environment Charter? You explained to us that this was not a cosmetic text, so I propose to test your goodwill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u86	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u87	The aim of this amendment is to draw up the end of Article 1: "It acts for the preservation of the environment, biological diversity, and guarantees the reduction of CO emissions [...]". This would require you to act in an area that can be addressed: emissions are increasing or decreasing. This would therefore be a real step forward in environmental matters, on which we could agree, since we all want to reduce carbon emissions. Since you absolutely want the verb "guarantee" to appear in the text, let us not guarantee a preservation that can give rise to different interpretations, but something measurable; This will undoubtedly be a step forward in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u88	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u89	It aims to include in Article 1 of the Constitution that France acts against climate change as well as against all forms of pollution – air, water, land. These have significant adverse effects on human health. France must commit itself to fighting pollution, because the climate emergency is not the only threat on the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u90	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u91	It aims to restore the wording "combat climate change". Indeed, the verb "combat" expresses a will and determination stronger than the verb "act". It would be sufficient for the State to take some legislative or regulatory measures to meet the objective of action; the term "combating" implies long-term action that can be assimilated to the desire to achieve ambitious goals, such as those defined by the Paris Agreement or the one that our country has set itself to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. The Socialist and Related Group prefers coherence and seriousness in the field of environmental protection and the fight against global warming. We understand that the majority wants to take a step aside to satisfy the Senate, but it seems to us that it will be useless; We therefore wish to re-establish in its original version the machinery proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u92	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u93	It is the same as the one we adopted in committee and aims to restore the text in its original version, as adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, with the exception of a significant amendment, which is to replace the word "combat" with the word "act". This reform is a story of words; You will agree that changing one of the two verbs, as requested by the Senate, is a great step in the direction of our fellow senators. If they are of good will, that should allow us to move forward towards the climate referendum. We have set ourselves the political objective of organizing it, in order to fulfil the commitment made by the President of the Republic to the members of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u94	The next item is the joint motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u95	[[Mr Julien Aubert acquiesce]] At the same time, we cannot be blamed for being too rigid and taking a step towards senators. Mr Aubert, you spoke of tango in your speech in general discussion, but I am not the Carlos Gardel of the constitutional amendment. You've made me feel sorry for not changing anything. You said that we were waiting for the Senate to give up in order to take advantage of this renunciation. We show you that this was not the case: it should delight you. Our position on this term has changed: it has been asked of us, we have considered it. We don't want everyone running in their respective hallways. We are listening to parliamentary work, despite the paradoxical criticism that we are being asked not to hear Parliament. That's how it is. The identical amendment that I am defending aims to restore the single article in the wording adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, with the exception of the verb "combat", replaced by the verb "act".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u96	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u97	As the rapporteur and the keeper of the seals have just explained, members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats want to take a step towards our fellow senators. This is the game of parliamentary democracy. These identical amendments are thus intended to complement the work of the Citizens' Convention. As I have already pointed out, we must not oppose participatory democracy and representative democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u98	I call Mrs Maina Sage to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u99	Thank you for this development. The Group of the European People's Party supported a similar amendment at first reading in order to underline the need to adopt much more offensive policies in the fight against climate change: it is a question of adopting terminology that commits us more. Just as we have introduced the notion of environmental preservation, the same "action" against climate change is stronger than "combat". You took a step towards the Senate, but also towards the National Assembly, since several deputies had proposed this amendment from the first reading in March.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u100	I call Mrs Emilie Guerel to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u101	As my colleagues have indicated, the La République en marche group wishes to take a step towards the Senate, in order to bring us closer to the referendum, by replacing the verb "acte" with the verb "combat". In this we also follow the recommendation of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u102	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support the sub-amendment to the identical amendments No. 48. Mr President, it would be consistent for you, at the same time, to defend Amendment No 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u103	I'll try a synthesis. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you choose to reverse "act" and "combat". If it is more attractive from a legal, political point of view, you know that Trotskyism and centrism do not use the same vocabulary. I hear the argument of small steps policy; I have mentioned, in committee, the fox and the Little Prince, who every day move towards each other. But to achieve this, we need a common project, to want to be friends. In the present case, this cannot be done on the back of the Constitution or at the expense of the quality of the law. In this regard, the Council of State has invited you to use a different term than "guarantee". However, you persist in wanting to dance a tango on one foot,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u104	It's gonna be complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u105	...which can't work. We therefore propose to go back to the wording of the Senate and replace the word "preservation" with the word "guarantee", so as to avoid litigation. I now turn to Amendment No. 34, which proposes another formulation, which is not only cosmetic, since it aims to "encourage the preservation of the environment, biological diversity and action against climate change", which is also included in the draft constitutional law for a renewal of democratic life, presented in 2018 by the Government of Édouard Philippe, and finally suspended. So you wouldn't be able to qualify my amendment as a cosmetic, since you had chosen the same formulation, so as to avoid using the terms "guarantee" and "combat". If I acknowledge, Minister, that you are becoming less and less rigid, I invite you to show more flexibility, a concession that should not be too difficult, since it is a question of returning to your own wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u106	Thank you for your help!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u107	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendments Nos. 36 and 37, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u108	They are editorial, but nevertheless important, since the debate is about the two words "guarantee" and "combat". The loss of species is 10 to 10000 times faster than the natural extinction rate. Despite the various international agreements, the world is still moving towards a three-degree warming. In 2019, greenhouse gas emissions reached a historic record of 59 billion tonnes of CO: I can quote many shock figures like these! The awareness seemed to have taken place, engaging strong actions. The President of the Republic himself said he was mobilized. Great speech, international summits, citizen consultation, bill to combat climate change: all the ingredients were gathered to make the magic potion intended to save our dying environment. However, in fact, the potion has the taste of an old bitter tambouille because, despite a collective awareness, on the right as well as on the left, nothing is done to stop eating organic from all over the world: you prefer to sign the CETA and put our farmers on their knees a little more! Nothing is done either to end the implantation of thousands of wind turbines, which sweep our campaigns with tons of scrap in the ground: too little is done to actively fight against the artificialisation of the soil, despite the concrete proposals that I have made in this direction. You prefer to ban heated terraces and flying advertising on the beaches, some of your friends even advocating the ban on Christmas trees: admit that there is a slight gap between the urgency of the situation and your actions! You persist in your self-satisfaction, proposing to amend the Constitution, so that it alone can guarantee the defence of our climate: it is so out of date that it is almost funny! Ecology, Minister, deserves much more than demagogy. Unfortunately, if we do not go back to the wording proposed by the Senate, I will be obliged to abstain on your amendment and, more generally, on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u109	Oh, that would be a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u110	Mr Dominique Potier's sub-amendment No. 43 is being defended. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u111	It is intended to replace the word "combat" with the word "act". The Socialist and Related Group welcomes the presence of the term "guarantee", as it was our proposal in the context of the constitutional review, while the Government proposed the term "encourage". I personally consider that this semantic battle does not change much, and that we should be able to agree on this, because both verbs allow us to take responsibility for the environment. Everything seems frozen, however, like a stained glass window: whatever our proposals, they are doomed to failure, which is a curious method for a constitutional revision. Parliamentary work deserves to be of a better quality than this coerced discussion of the single article. Subamendments Nos. 39, 40, 41 and 42 are similar, and will have the same fate... The real question is not to "preservate" or "guarante", but to integrate the principle of non-regression or constant improvement in the preservation of the environment and the planet. In the face of your refusal, I shall stop presenting my amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u112	Subamendments Nos 39 by Mr Gérard Leseul, 40, 41 and 42 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier and 44 by Mr Dominique Potier were defended. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support sub-amendment No 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u113	This sub-amendment by Gérard Leseul proposes to supplement paragraph 4 with the following sentence: "it respects, under the control of the High Authority with planetary limits, the conditions of habitability of the earth". It is thus aimed at ensuring respect for the planetary limits. My colleague was very interested in this amendment. That's why I'm defending him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u114	Amendment No 34 by Mr Julien Aubert was defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u115	In response to Mr Aubert and Mrs Ménard, who alternatively propose that France "act", or "encourage", I specify that our choice is that of the verb "guarante", a powerful principle of action that we assume. Three legal consequences, which are highly desirable, stem from this: to establish a principle of action for public authorities in favour of the environment; creating an obligation of enhanced means, which would extend the responsibility of public actors in environmental matters; To establish environmental conservation as a full constitutional principle, which is not currently the case with the Environmental Charter. We continue to defend the political principles established in consultation with the members of the Citizens' Climate Convention, as we did at the first reading. You are proposing, Mr Aubert, to include in the Constitution that France guarantees the reduction of CO emissions. We must not confuse the principles on which our Republic is based, which, alone, define what our Constitution is, with public policy objectives: quantified CO objectives cannot be engraved in the constitutional marble, but must find their place in another type of text. In response to Mrs Forteza and the Group of the European People's Party, I am opposed, as I have already had the opportunity to stress during the first reading and in committee, to the principle of non-regression, which has already been recognised, since 2016, at the legislative level: before raising it to constitutional rank, it is better to wait until the jurisprudence of the Council of State on this matter is enriched. Nor are we in favour of Mrs Batho's proposal to replace the words 'climate disruption' with 'climate change': the concept of climate change is more appropriate, as it refers to human action on climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u117	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u118	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u119	It is not very serious to refuse to respond to our comments on the article and to our amendments and sub-amendments, Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u120	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u121	... while we agreed to group the presentation together, even though they are different in nature! You have only responded to my amendment on CO, Mr.Rapporteur, but you have refrained from responding to the one that reflects the terms of the 2018 constitutional bill, on which I proposed a consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u122	Yes, we've answered you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u123	No, I still don't have an answer, but I'm going to answer you on CO, because you say we can't engrave a quantified objective in the Constitution. However, my proposal is not intended to include in the Constitution that France will respect in 2025 such a percentage of CO emissions, but that France guarantees that it will commit itself to reducing CO emissions. If you refuse to write it, a majority may one day decide to increase CO emissions. No! We all agree that they should be reduced! On the other hand, your proposal to ensure the preservation of the environment, which is not very clear, is to refer the power of assessment to the judge. Either "guarantee" is a strong word, which has your preference because it is engaging and ambitious, to use your words, and in this case I suggest that you link it to the reduction of CO emissions, which will lead to consensus; You think it's dangerous, in which case I don't see why you want to guarantee the preservation of the environment would be less so. Finally, as I repeat, I would like a response from the Government, particularly on the amendment that incorporates the wording of the 2018 constitutional bill, Ms.Beloubet and Mr.Édouard Philippe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u125	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u126	In reply to the rapporteur, it seems to me, on reflection, that the wording proposed by the Senate, using the verb "preservation", allows us to achieve the same objectives as with the verb "guarantee": preserve the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u127	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u128	Indeed, the principle of action is the same, whether it is to guarantee preservation or to preserve the environment. Similarly, the creation of an enhanced capacity obligation is the same in both cases. In order to arrive at a common text, we would benefit from hearing the Senate's position on the term "preservation". On the other hand, I do not agree with the choice of a reference to Article 2 of the Environment Charter, which has no place in the Constitution: it is not a working guide. Let us agree on semantics and return to a consensus proposal, so that the constitutional review will succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u129	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u130	The reduction of CO emissions is a priority objective, but I am disturbed by Mr Aubert's amendment, because it is too restrictive, since it assumes that this is the only way to combat climate change, which is not the case. Unfortunately, even the complete cessation of our emissions would not be enough to stop climate disruption. There are many actions to be taken, and the reduction of our CO emissions is just one of many. What programs are you talking about? The action of France alone is not sufficient either. I understand the intention of your amendment No 33, but it seems to me to be restrictive of the action we must take to combat climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u131	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u132	I see Mr Aubert looking forward to answering me when I have not yet spoken... [[Smile]] Mr. Aubert, there is CO, but there are also heavy metals, nitrates, plastics... It's not the Constitution anymore, it's a hardware store! It's not serious. And, as we just told you right now, it's restrictive. As long as we are committed to ensuring the protection of the environment, CO is of course concerned: it is one of the most important pollutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u133	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u134	No one knows that, of course. You say you want to help us: thank you so much for your help, without which we would be totally lost! I'd like to remind you of some things, too. You're a little uncharted, because we're taking a step towards you. You made the grievance, by helping you with the JDD, and this morning of La Voix du Nord – I assure you, Mr.Aubert, I have read it, but I would like to say a word of advice: have a modest triumph – you have made us the grievance, therefore, for eighteen long hours, not to hear you, not to want this or that, not to be rigid, not to respect Parliament and what I know again. But when we go in your direction, it is your reproaches that change: deep down, you are an eternal unsatisfied, Mr. Aubert. That's how I'm not gonna change you. But we did that. Contrary to what you say, in the newspapers you read...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u135	The Figaro, essentially!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u136	Surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u137	Contrary to what you say, we want this reform to succeed. That's why we're taking a step towards you, and that disappoints you: you no longer know what to say to us, so you blame us for not including the reduction in CO emissions in the Constitution. I told you what I thought: we cannot draw up a heteroclite list of pollutants in Article 1. I won't convince you, I'm sure, but I wanted to tell you these things, so you could hear them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u138	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u139	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 4 Against 50
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u140	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u141	Minister, in your opinion, we would be destabilized by your openness. But you're the one who's embarrassed! I defended an amendment incorporating a proposal made in 2018, during the discussion of the constitutional reform, by The Republic on the move: I did not get any answer, either from the minister or the rapporteur. However, I have mentioned this amendment four times! If there is not a form of embarrassment there, it still looks strong. I also proposed that you commit yourself resolutely to the reduction of CO emissions, to hear me say that, in the end, it had little connection with the text. I am still reading the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): "anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases, which have increased since the pre-industrial era mainly due to economic growth," are "extremely likely... the main cause of the warming observed since the mid-20th century. » I mentioned CO emissions, because if you want to control methane emissions, I wish you good luck in cattle farms... I preferred to focus on the main element. Unfortunately, this discussion sent to the Hussard again turned to the dialogue of the deaf, with a false opening, both legally fragile and politically untenable. You simply don't want to take on the failure; You do not want to understand that in order for a constitutional review to take place, we need an agreement with the Senate. We have made three proposals; You rejected them all three of them. Therefore, you do not give us any other option than to vote against this bill. We understand that you really don't want to agree. You will go to the Senate to explain it – and without even reading the press, I can already tell you, minister, that your half-opening, your judgment of Solomon, will not flourish. By clinging to the Gospel page written by the Citizens' Convention, you will not succeed, you will not promote consensus, and you will not act in favour of constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u142	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u143	Our discussion is about essentially symbolic proposals, as has been said; But when Article 1 of the Constitution states not only that "France is an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic", but also that "it guarantees the preservation of the environment and biological diversity and acts against climate change", we will be far beyond the symbol: this is a project of society. On the form, we feel that a step forward to the Senate, and to our group, has been taken, since we had advocated the use of the verb "act." We fully support the compromise that has been reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u144	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u145	The situation is very worrying. She commands us to act forcefully. At a time when we are witnessing the sixth mass extinction of living species, parametrically attributable to human action, incorporating the ecological dimension of our social contract into the fundamental norm is more than ever necessary. On the basis of this principle of positive action, it seems to us legitimate to submit to the French, through the referendum, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic and the letter of our Constitution, the opportunity to institute a constitutional right of the environment, applicable and enforceable without the intervention of the legislator to all national and local public authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why I call on the Republic on the move and the other groups of the majority to vote in favour of this ambitious text, in line with the ecological and democratic challenges of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u146	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u147	This text, which we will adopt tomorrow, makes the proposal of the Citizens' Climate Convention effective. This is a real step forward, which will enable us to fulfil the commitments made to all those who participated in this convention. It is also an additional step that shows that it is possible to link participatory democracy with representative democracy. The term "guarantee" may lead to more litigation; But we must have that courage and honesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u148	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u149	The defence of the environment is not just a posture; It is a state of mind, it is a will for action, it is a responsible and concerned approach to the future of our planet that we must enshrine in the Constitution. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Human activity is responsible for pollution, and we must get out of political and partisan quarrels. The step we have taken towards the version of the Senate will, I hope, allow us to succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u150	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u151	We measure the symbolic scope of the inclusion of environmental conservation in article 1 of the Constitution. But we believe that this addition will have only a very marginal impact on the fight against climate change. The hesitation between "action" and "guarantee" is above all semantic. In addition, the Government's response to environmental and climate emergencies is largely inadequate: as all studies say, the measures taken by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium will not reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent and, for the most part, by 55 per cent by 2030. We regret that the Government has not created the necessary conditions for reaching consensus with the Senate. I recalled earlier that, as long as we were reforming the Constitution, we would have had an interest in reforming the whole democratic process so that the complicated decisions that we will have to take collectively would be accepted by our fellow citizens, through the intermediary bodies and through a strengthened Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u152	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u153	Interestingly it has been, we consider that the debate has not been serene, since it has been somewhat stifled by political action that is beyond our control. The parliamentary debate did not reach the same level of quality as in the examination of other important texts. So the discussion of this constitutional bill has given rise to a kind of disappointment in us, because we called for our wishes more than just a forced semantic debate. I would add that, regardless of the wording adopted, whether its scope is considered symbolic or not, it is in our common interest to include environmental conservation in Article 1 of the Constitution. In this regard, the reference to biological diversity, which covers wildlife, plant species and natural habitats, is absolutely essential. Biodiversity should not be forgotten; On the contrary, it must be placed at the centre of our debates and action. Of course, the issue of global warming, which led our discussions, is important, but this concept does not absorb the whole environmental issue. The Lubrizol accident, to take just one example, is not linked to global warming. Do not believe that by supplementing Article 1 of the Constitution, we will have solved all environmental problems. This is a first step which, as far as I am concerned, does not pose a problem to me. On the other hand, I will not vote for the other members of my group: it is likely that some will vote in favour of the text and others will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u154	We have completed the explanations of vote. I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that the vote by public vote on the single article of the constitutional bill will take place tomorrow, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-21-O1314.u155	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Vote by public vote on the second reading of the draft constitutional law supplementing article 1 of the Constitution and relating to the preservation of the environment; Government statement on military programming. The meeting is adjourned.
