ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities (No. 3699, 3887).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u3	Solar panels in Kiffa, Mauritania to produce the sustainable electricity the city needs; Honor loans to help young entrepreneurs in N'Djamena in Chad launch a business or workshop at the heart of their community; health teams that meet the residents of the Gao region in Mali to care for newborns and to give women their freedom of choice through family planning; a French-Senegal university campus to prepare a new African generation for the jobs of tomorrow, those of ecological engineering, renewable energies or even big data and artificial intelligence – if they are far from exhausting the richness and diversity of the projects that France supported and accompanied last year, these few illustrations allow us to grasp, from the concrete, the ground, where the essentials are played, some of the stakes of our policy of development solidarity. These examples remind us above all that a gesture of solidarity, even very simple, can change the course of a life, open new horizons, and make hope. It is not enough to base our foreign policy choices, we are well aware of that, but I know that there are many of us in and outside this House who are delighted, in our own right, with these very concrete results, which constitute real progress. This feeling is not alien to what our Republic is, its history and its values. What his projects also show, against many of the accepted ideas, is that the answers to the major environmental, social and technological challenges of the twenty-first century are also played out in the South. We continue to use the term "official development assistance", which remains a reference in the international nomenclature, but, to look more closely at it, it would be fairer to speak now of self-help and even of self-help for sustainable development. On the one hand, sustainable development has real value only if it is global. This is also the spirit of the 2030 agenda, set by the United Nations in 2015, which is our compass in this area. On the other hand, this goal can only be achieved collectively, through multilateral action and through the financial or technical support we provide to the least developed and emerging countries. In a world like ours, in a state of ecological, social and now pandemic emergency, solidarity is an imperative of efficiency at the same time as a demand for humanity and justice. Enacted in our values, it is also dictated by our well-understood interests. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the key to the programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities that I have the honour to present to you tonight. The covid-19 came to confirm, one by one, each of the intuitions which, for more than three years, guided us in the preparation of this text, which is thus both the result of a long collective reflection conducted with the entire French development community, and the result of the current situation. Each of these intuitions has been confirmed more than we could have imagined. The intuition that international disorder can upset our daily lives – our fellow citizens now know too much. Intuition that the health of some depends on the health of all, so close are the links between continents and nations. The intuition that humanity cannot live in good health on a sick planet and that the threats to us are all the more formidable as they are intrigued. The intuition that everyone for themselves is a dead end for all of us – this direction guides our fight to make the vaccine a new global public good through the ACT-A – Access to covid -19 tools accelerator – and the financial facility called VOCAX – collaborate for a global and equitable access to vaccines against the covid-19 virus. The sense of the new impetus that I propose we give together to our development policy is therefore very clear: to learn all the lessons of these months of trial; act to protect French and French people from crises that cannot hit us in the future; begin to rebuild our common, not only with the Europeans, our great allies and the powers of goodwill that have joined us in the Alliance for Multilateralism, but also with our most vulnerable partners because we need them – to strengthen all the links of the chains that protect us – as much as they need us. This law is therefore our in-depth and lasting response to the pandemic crisis and to everything it has revealed. I hope you will see it in this way, in what it has of urgency and necessary in view of the challenges of long time. I hope that you will not have the temptation to sum it up to a simple figure: this 0.55% of the national wealth that the President of the Republic has pledged to devote to our official development assistance – ODA – by 2022, even though, let me be clear, I have fought for it to appear in the text. As you will have noticed, this text is indeed a law of programming, unlike the law on development policy and international solidarity of 2014. Had it been argued that we would eventually do less than expected for development because of the crisis, I would have fought against that idea. Some countries have made this choice, but this is not the case with France. The determination of the President of the Republic, who has never wavered in this regard, is perfectly consistent with the fighting he has waged on the international scene since 2017: the fight for collective action and multilateralism, the fight against global inequalities, which we have taken as the thread of the French presidency of the G7 in 2019, and the fight for the preservation of our common goods. I have also fought for this text to mean more than just one digit...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u4	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u5	...because a number doesn't make a policy. However, we need a real policy of development in solidarity in order to prepare for the future. As I said yesterday in this House, we need a policy that is a full pillar of our foreign policy. It was absolutely essential that the commitment of the President of the Republic should be fulfilled and it will be fulfilled, but, and I want to insist on it, it is not only a matter of doing more, it is also a matter of doing better to improve efficiency and always achieve tangible, concrete results. To do better, we must first clarify our geographical priorities, in order to make a real difference on the ground. In the wake of the decisions taken in 2018 by the Interministerial Committee on International Cooperation and Development, CICID, we therefore propose to direct our grant assistance to nineteen priority countries that focus on fragility – Haiti and eighteen countries in sub-Saharan Africa. At this moment, I am thinking in particular of the five countries of the Sahel where our efforts are part of a comprehensive and integrated approach, which articulates security commitments and support for the people, over the entire arc of international solidarity from humanitarian to development, not to mention the crucial stage of stabilization. In the Sahel, resources have been steadily increasing in recent years: between 2016 and 2019, our official development assistance to the G5 Sahel countries has increased from 382 million euros to more than 500 million euros; its bilateral share was €362 million in 2019, up 34% from the previous year. As I like the concrete, I do not resist the desire to give you some examples of the use of this aid. In 2020, it provided access to drinking water for several thousand Nigerians, implemented forty-three hydraulic works in the Ménaka region of Mali, maintained 200,000 Nigeri children in primary school, rehabilitated 1,800 classes in Mali. These concrete results bring about a lasting reduction in the terrorist threat in the Sahel, which I would remind you is also a threat to the security of the French and Europeans. To do better, we also need to clarify our thematic priorities...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u7	... around the global public goods that engage our lives for all – health, climate, biodiversity – around these formidable development levers of education and equality between women and men, and around a global objective to combat the fragility that are factors of instability for societies and therefore for the entire planet. Since these issues are closely linked to each other, in order to do better, we must therefore ensure that they are dealt with together, in order to respond to the complexity of the problems on the ground and to increase the effectiveness of our actions. Hence our attention to the nodal issues of girls' schooling, the interactions between human health and animal health, and the training and employment of young people in the agro-ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u9	We must do more and better, but also do with our partners in the South and not just do for them. Development cannot be conceived today, as was done yesterday, if only for reasons of efficiency. We want to work differently with the countries of the South, in particular with their civil society, to build and implement together the projects that people need. We also want to enhance the role of French non-governmental organisations – NGOs – to which we propose to recognise the right of initiative. We want to encourage decentralized cooperation that allows our municipalities, departments and regions to share their expertise and experience with local communities in developing countries. We want to reinvent the volunteerism of international solidarity, by opening this emblematic mechanism to the youth of the South, who will be able to lend a helping hand to our associations, here in France. We want to make use of the African diasporas in France, which are valuable relays between our country and the African continent. Finally, this new development policy is rooted in a geopolitics of development. Effective international solidarity is a lucid international solidarity. While the competition of the powers now plays everywhere, we must propose another way to our partners in the South. Some, under the guise of support, try to impose new forms of dependency on them. This is not our conception of influence, it is not the model we have to defend. Our model is that of accompaniment with respect for national sovereignty, that of sustainable progress and not that of predation. It is based on universal values: respect for human rights, the promotion of democratic governance, but also the sharing of scientific knowledge and research, and the dialogue of cultures. This progressive and humanist model is now challenged and not just in words. Let us not look at ourselves: development has become one of the great fields of manoeuvre where, whether we want it or not, the new battles of influence are now taking place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u10	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u11	It is in our interest to take note of this, without any ambiguity. For me, this new concept of solidarity development makes sense only if it materializes on the ground. That is why I have cited several concrete examples of which I have been, for many of them, the visual witness. We therefore propose significant upstream and downstream developments. Upstream, we want to consolidate the government's leadership of our development policy. It is a matter of clearly reaffirming the chain of responsibilities, from the highest level – the Presidential Development Council, which met for the first time last December – to our partner countries where the role of ambassadors and ambassadors will be strengthened within the framework of a local development committee that will regularly bring together, under their chairmanship, all those who will contribute to this policy on a daily basis, in direct connection with our national, international and local partners, operators and NGOs. At the same time, we want our operators, in particular Expertise France, to join the Agence française de développement group, AFD, in order to re-arm our country in the field of cooperation and strengthen our technical partnership. I would also like to stress, since the question has often been asked to me, that the time has passed when our development policy could seem to be guided only by the instruments it uses. Downstream, we propose the establishment of an independent evaluation commission to measure the concrete impact of the projects we support and to decide on the effectiveness of our official development assistance. Since increased resources will be devoted to development, it is legitimate for national representation and our citizens to know how and with what results these means are used. It is a measure of transparency that we owe to them and to which I am very attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u12	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u13	This bill is also intended to facilitate the establishment of international organizations in our territory, including by simplifying and accelerating the granting of so-called privileges and immunities, which make our country attractive to these organizations. The challenge is to place France at the centre of the fight for development and for global public goods. Influence and attractiveness must go hand in hand. Reshaping our policy of solidarity development in order to better protect French and French people in a world of interdependence, emboldened by common challenges that represent so many very concrete perils, but also concrete opportunities to bring nations closer to a certain idea of human beings and their dignity: this is the ambition of this bill that I am very proud to submit to you today. It is rare that Parliament is also directly involved in the development and conduct of our international action...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u14	That's a very good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u15	... and I would like to greet those of you who have been with us since the beginning of this adventure, starting with Mrs Bérengère Poletti, Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo and of course you, rapporteur, dear Hervé Berville. In my view, this bill has only more value for all of us. Its adoption, in a version enriched by your amendments, will be a very good signal. A signal of lucidity and responsibility sent to our fellow citizens to show them that this assembly and the Government are facing the world, without naivety but without fatalism, and are ready to draw all the consequences together by relying on cooperation and by giving themselves the means to defend the principles to which we stand and the model to which we believe, in a context of brutalization of international life and overt competition. A signal of support for French humanitarian and development actors, who carry out remarkable work every day,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] ... sometimes in very difficult conditions. I would like to pay tribute to them here. Finally, a signal of confidence sent to our partners in the South: this text is a way to tell them that they can count on our commitment alongside them as we rely on them to prepare for our common future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u18	Mr Hervé Berville, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u19	Finally! Finally, this beautiful and noble assembly examines the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u20	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u21	Finally, the mobilization of all our colleagues from all walks of life, the efforts made by the Minister since 2017 and the commitment of the President of the Republic take shape here tonight, after the examination of the text in committee last week. Finally, in the Chamber, we will have a debate on the relevance, effectiveness and priorities of official development assistance, on ways to regulate globalisation, trade and free trade, on ways to combat poverty more effectively and to reduce inequalities. Finally – thank you, Minister! – a government has made strong commitments when it comes to responsibilities, and holds them, while the macroeconomic and financial context could have prompted us to revise them downwards. As the Minister recalled, this text is the result of a co-construction carried out at least since 2017. I remember, Mrs Poletti, Mr Kokouendo, ladies and gentlemen, this joint trip with the Senate, which allowed us to realize the effectiveness, but also the ineffectiveness and lack of visibility of French official development assistance, and the improvements that this major text was to bring. This bill has started from the ground, from the concrete, from the exchanges with ambassadors and civil society actors. It also owes a great deal to the work that was carried out within the framework of the National Council for Development and International Solidarity, CNDSI, during two sessions from which it emerged improved. I also greet Christian Cambon, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Armed Forces, with whom a roadmap was developed for the minister who agreed to use it to strengthen the bill. We have thus arrived in committee with a text which has already been the subject of numerous consultations and consultation. Far from being in vain, these steps have improved the drafting process. This text is the subject of a strong expectation on the part of national representation, which we must hear and which we must take into account in its consideration in the sitting. As you have brilliantly pointed out, Minister, the context in which we are studying this text is difficult and particular. According to the World Bank, more than 150 million people will be thrown into poverty, hunger will return, and inequalities between and within countries will increase sharply again. As all colleagues concerned about women's rights know, women will pay a particularly heavy price because inequalities between women and men will also increase as a result of this crisis. Years, decades of progress will be swept away in a few weeks. That is why I am proud to be a member of this Assembly, proud to exercise my mandate under this legislature and within this majority, alongside this government, which, instead of receding, will intensify efforts to combat inequality, reduce poverty and limit climate change while preserving global public goods such as education and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u22	Or the vaccines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u23	It must be said, because sometimes we compare ourselves and we desolate ourselves: we are the only European country that massively increases official development assistance, while it stagnates or retreats from all our neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u24	We're world champions in every field. It's known!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u25	It is, in my view, a source of pride, because, as the president of the NGO ONE has said, we need a sense of solidarity. We assume it, we affirm it loud and clear. Far from acting in catini, we are introducing a bill and explaining what this increase in official development assistance will do. We must act now because every day that passes throws new vulnerable people into the streets and on the road. We must act massively because the challenges are important and the sectors on which we have to work are numerous. Finally, we must act collectively, because it is through a coordinated response that we can overcome it, and it is through multilateralism of action that we can solve common challenges such as the covid-19 pandemic. It is therefore proud and committed to our values and the history of France that we are moving forward and approaching the examination of this text. This bill does not come out of nowhere: it represents the result of co-construction work, but also the outcome of the commitment made in 2017 by President Emmanuel Macron to devote 0.55% of gross national income, GNI, to ODA. We are committed to this commitment by massively increasing the funding of the Official Development Assistance mission. This is the mission that has grown the most since 2017. Above all, we will strive to include in the text – I hope it will be a major step forward in the sitting – the goal of devoting 0.7 per cent of our GNI to ODA by 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u26	Shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u27	This question is for some a taboo, for others a totem. For my part, as you know, I believe that this approach is inadequate and does not address all the issues, the number to be reached being calculated in a questionable and otherwise contested way. But I am measuring the symbolic scope of this threshold and I believe that we must move forward to become the first majority, the first legislature to include in the bill the target of 0.7% of GNI.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u29	With this objective on the horizon of 2025, we will have real financial programming. This does not relieve us, on the contrary, of the need to reflect on the meaning of official development assistance. What do we do with that 0.7%?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u30	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u31	How can official development assistance be effective? Which sectors should be targeted? For what audience? According to what calendar? This moment also allows us to rethink official development assistance, because it is clear that the so-called developed countries are no longer the only ones to do so. Their monopoly of action and methods is being undermined by countries in the South such as Brazil, Turkey and China. The effectiveness of official development assistance was called into question, and work, particularly that of Esther Duflo, showed that action must be taken in a different way: to focus on quality rather than on quantity, on actors rather than on the sector, to move from the logic of official development assistance to a logic of genuine partnership. We have had the honour of discussing all these issues, we have made progress and we will continue to work. The text we are looking at today allows for at least five major advances. The first refers to the strategy and our ability to formulate a doctrine. For the first time, France has developed a comprehensive partnership framework, which has been substantially amended and has been the subject of many discussions and contributions. I am thinking of Mr. Lecoq on global public goods, Mrs. Dumont on children without identity, Mr. Potier on land rights, Mr. Kokouendo on priority poor countries, Ms. Thomas on WHO, the World Health Organization, Mr. Mbaye on humanitarian issues, Mr. Maire and Mr. Herbillon on issues of efficiency and transparency, Ms. Clapot on equality between women and men, Ms. Provendier and Mr. Fuchs on children, or Mrs. Poletti on the board of experts France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u32	Ah! He's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u33	Further progress is to be made, for example through Mr Eliaou's proposals on social protection. All this shows that we have made progress and will continue to do so. We have defined a real doctrine: from the Presidential Development Council to the local development council chaired by the ambassador, we have set a clear line, strategy and hierarchy. The next point is that of means, which, as the Minister stressed, will be focused on Africa, particularly on the Sahel, which is our geostrategic, geopolitical and geoeconomic priority. In essence, what we want is to Europeanise our African relations and to make our European relations more African so that both continents can work together and official development assistance can be much more effective. Then comes the question of partnerships. I am proud that this text places partnerships with local authorities, who will be an important player in democratizing these themes, at the heart of development aid through the territorialisation of the SDGs – sustainable development goals. Partnerships will also have to be made with diasporas, young people, businesses – as more than €2,500 billion will be needed to reach the SDGs – or civil society organisations, whose capacity for innovation, adaptation, mobilisation and advocacy I welcome. We will offer them greater recognition and allow us to multiply our action. I will conclude by mentioning a major step forward in transparency and accountability: the establishment of an independent evaluation commission. This unprecedented initiative will enable us to explain our actions to our fellow citizens, to tell them if it produces results and achieves its objectives, and above all to share knowledge, to capitalize more on what we do and to attract even more support – because development aid is a good policy, which deserves a public debate. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this text is a beautiful text, a rich text that encompasses multiple themes and geographies. We are all committed to these issues. If we propose this text, it is because we are aware that our countries are interdependent and that the destiny of our societies is inextricably linked. We also do so for all solidarity activists who rise every morning with the desire to engage. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I am confident that our exchanges will further enrich the text. With a thought for President Marielle de Sarnez, I wish all of us a good debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u34	For the form, it was a treat. On the bottom, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u35	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u36	It is with seriousness that I take the floor to welcome the commitment of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the draft programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This law was ardently desired, wanted and prepared by the one who presided over our commission so little ago. The cause of solidarity development was at the heart of Marielle de Sarnez's concerns. It had insisted that the text should be drawn up in the light of three principles: a governmental and parliamentary co-construction of the text, a close association of the National Assembly and the Senate with the elaboration of our position, and the association with the drafting of the law of the multiple actors of development, in particular of the territorial communities and non-governmental organizations. Our rapporteur, Mr Hervé Berville, has been the driving force behind this project. I would like to pay tribute, on behalf of the committee, to his hard work, the quality of his personal commitment and his high level of competence. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I have felt as an honour to preside over parliamentary work which, in addition to the necessary differences in sensitivity and some very natural disagreements over the means, arrangements and modalities of action, have, I believe, revealed broad agreement on the fundamental principles of our development aid policy and on the values underlying it. It seems to me that it is a common ambition of the members of the committee who took part in our debates to make development aid a major axis, a moral and strategic priority of France's foreign policy. In substance, the text before you seems to me to be the culmination of a triple effort of mobilization, innovation and accountability. Mobilization, first of all: this text enshrines the return of France as a major player in development aid. The figures speak for themselves: the ratio of official development assistance to gross national income declined significantly between 2010 and 2016, from 0.50 per cent to 0.38 per cent, from almost $13 billion to about $9.5 billion. Bilateral aid – the easiest to gnaw in a fiscal shortage – has experienced a real collapse. On the contrary, this ratio has been well adjusted since 2016 – it needs to be agreed – and even more so from 2018, when President Macron made ODA a priority. It then increased from 0.44% in 2018 to 0.51% in 2021, and even to 0.55%, taking into account the pandemic recession, which is obviously not very satisfactory. Programming does not go beyond 2022 and, as some have observed in committee, due to the delays and postponements imposed on us by legislative requirements, the entire content of the legislation will have already been included in the budget at the time of its adoption. Many would have preferred this programming to run until 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u38	The Government did not wish that to be so. If I may say so, the opposition should rather be grateful for its concern not to lock the future into choices that will belong to the leaders of tomorrow, whatever they may be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u39	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u40	The tightness of programming should not prevent us from measuring the extent of the efforts made so far. France is very close to the target of 0.7% of GNI devoted to development aid – even though it must be recognized that this ancient reference has an increasingly mythical character and is a flag covering the most diverse goods, mixing for example in a single aggregate loans and donations, credits and cancellations of debts, and even a reduction in the denominator of the fraction due to recession and a decrease in domestic income. It does not stop: the financial effort is there. While, too often, politicians multiply the promises they keep from honouring, you seem tempted, minister, by the opposite approach: to keep – largely – your promises even before you have solemnly formulated them. It's original, but it's certainly nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u41	There you go! The tongue of wood!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u42	I do not think that is the language of wood, dear colleague. The mobilization is here. Innovation also: it is the adaptation of the stakes, the actors and the modalities. The stakes first: the priorities which are now those of France in its action for development are updated in depth. Beyond the fight against the pandemic, I will mention three. First of all, action in the service of children and the priority given to training and education of young people: the commission wanted to make a priority in the fight against the scandal of children without identity. Secondly, the fight against inequalities between women and men, fights all the more cardinal in our eyes as the situation deteriorates in depth every day a little more. Finally, aid for the ecological transition: development must not be that "smack thrown into the face of humanity" that Claude Levi-Strauss spoke of and that signifies our historical responsibilities in this regard. The defence and protection of humanity's common goods are at the heart of our concerns. The development offer must be brought by France as a whole, by its communities, by its NGOs, by its forces and not by its administrations alone. This effort must benefit the peoples themselves and not their leaders. From this point of view, the recycling of ill-acquired property recovered by justice for the benefit of the victims' peoples through a dedicated programme constitutes a significant step towards public moralization. We welcome the Government's strong initiative in this regard. Finally, accountability: this is the whole problem of governance of action, i.e. both the modalities of intervention and the organisation of evaluation and control of operators. The text enshrines the prominent role of the French Development Agency as the secular arm of the State. This choice is due to the quality of her work and her teams, her experience in this area and her knowledge of the field that characterizes her staff. Its Director General is a leading man, with good contacts and valuable working habits with the officials of the states and societies concerned. However, effective governance, with strong managerial autonomy but fully aligned with government priorities, is not self-evident. AFD, a financial operator of a banking nature and a distributor of a legal aid which takes the form of donations, is a bat institution, which is not known whether it flies or whether it works. The financial operator must be autonomous and, even if it does not seek profit for profit, it must balance accounts for which it is solely responsible. In addition, it must strictly include its activities in the guidelines and priorities of the Government of the Republic. In order to succeed in this quasi-quadrature of the circle – guaranteeing freedom of manoeuvre while ensuring full respect for government priorities – the future programming law, however, provides for new means. The first of these is the involvement of the Court of Auditors in the evaluation mission of AFD, thanks to its endorsement of the evaluation body to the financial court, an evaluation body which would be prestigiously chaired by the First President of the Court of Auditors. The financial court is a problem, however, but it will have to strike a difficult balance between an evaluation function to be entrusted to a body associated with the Court of Auditors and an ex post audit function which will remain the direct competence of the chambers of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u44	The second means devised to strengthen and improve the political leadership of AFD is a greater association of representatives of both Houses of Parliament and the diversity of sensitivities expressed on the Agency's Board of Directors. Needless to say, this openness to Parliament is welcomed with great satisfaction by the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM, LR and Agir ens groups]] Upgrading the financial resources, renovating AFD's missions, adapting the AFD to the challenges of today's world, improving the governance of development actions: yes, this programming bill enshrines the great return of France to the priority work of development. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, with the vast majority of its members, is proud to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u45	In the general debate, Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u46	[[Rires on the benches of the GDR group]] Let's try to get our minds back a little bit. This programming bill is coming very late. It is important and, of course, very expected. The crisis associated with covid -19 strongly affects the most vulnerable populations. The poorest countries have not been able to deploy massive aid measures as the rich countries have done. After declining for several years, the number of malnourished people in the world is increasing again: half a billion people are plunged into extreme poverty. In this context, the development of an ambitious official development assistance policy is more urgent than ever. I would like to remind you that no country, no more than France, will be able to develop if it does not take into account the need of all peoples to flourish with respect for one planet – for we have only one. To not engage in this movement is to condemn all of us to fratricidal and endless confrontations. In 1970, UN countries – the United Nations – committed themselves to devoting 0.7% of their GDP to development aid in the following decade. Today, the account is still not there, although I recognize that ODA has once again become a priority for our country. President Macron had pledged to devote 0.55% of our GNI to this assistance, by the end of his term of office, in order to achieve this international goal as soon as possible. We can object, as you do, that with 0.72% in 2021, the account is more than good. However, this increase is a real mistake, first of all because the 14 billion expenditures include the recovery of a debt of 4.5 billion in Sudan, which dates back 30 years and will never be paid, but also because our national income has melted in 2020 because of the health crisis. I would add that this increase is also due to the recognition of the care of migrants in our country. In all objectivity, it will miss about 900 million euros to realize the promises that have been made. However, your efforts should be highlighted. There are, however, substantive questions, first of all the display of the annual trajectory in terms of the resources allocated – because we know that the needs are going to grow constantly – then the use of these funds and the choice of countries to be targeted as a priority, but also the proportion of grants in relation to loans granted, since our country only devotes insufficient resources to direct aid. We share the broad objectives of this bill and commend the quality of the work done in committee by a very good chairman and the listening spirit of the Government and the rapporteur. We welcome the progress we have made in that regard. While we have usefully completed Article 1 by re-examining international standards, including references to human rights, in our policies, we hope that at the sitting, the substantive agreements observed in committee will this time be translated into opinions in favour of our specific proposals, which are also those of the NGOs, whose commitment I welcome. We want a clear path to achieve a significant increase in means over time, i.e. 0.7% of GNI by 2025. In this context, our group wishes to reaffirm the importance of respecting the commitment of the President of the Republic and of including explicitly in law the target of 0.7 per cent of GDP in ODA by 2025. We want comprehensive objectives to be enshrined in the law, including the share of aid to the least developed countries. Your arguments have not convinced us. What is well-conceived is clearly exposed. France has created its own list of priority countries, the OECD – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – its own. We still do not have the means to effectively control the amounts allocated to these priorities. Finally, we stress that the proportion of grants to loans should be gradually approaching 85 per cent, in line with the practice of OECD donor countries. Greater priority should therefore be given to donations over loans. It is necessary to accept these demands so that our development aid policy is more ambitious, in line with the moment we are living in. [[The rapporteur applauds]] We hope that this consideration at the meeting will be conducted in the same open and constructive spirit as our work in committee, and that it will lead to a more ambitious version of the draft, truly commensurate with our country's commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u47	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u48	Here we go. A law on official development assistance has arrived! We thought she'd never come. Like the Arlesian: we talked about it, but no one had ever seen it. This law has taken so long to reach us that it bears the stigma: a very large part of the global partnership framework is content with the conclusions of the 2018 Interdepartmental Committee on International Cooperation and Development, while the financial programming of the law begins in 2020. I say "programming" but, in reality, it is not really one, since it stops in 2022. All this is therefore very disappointing, unless, of course, you vote for the amendment proposed by the Communist Members, which aims to delete the word "programming" from the title. So we would at least be more honest because it is a true programming that all the actors of international solidarity eagerly expected, who are carrying out on a daily basis a formidable work that requires a capacity to project themselves. These substantive issues are not the only ones we are not satisfied with. Communist MPs deeply regret that the issue of peace is not the predominant issue in this bill, although it is the only objective that must be set in order to combat global inequalities and for development in solidarity. In this regard, diplomacy, respect for human rights, the construction of public services and the development of universally accepted rules are the real challenge. Respect for common rules affects both the local community and the international community. Nowhere, however, is it explicitly mentioned that France will respect all the resolutions adopted by the United Nations, which, however, form the basis of the world's whole-life, because they set out solutions negotiated and accepted, sometimes difficult, by each of the countries of the world. I hope that you will correct this by voting on our amendments along those lines. Respect for international law is the priority solution for a just and lasting peace, which is itself indispensable for development. Imagine for a moment the Middle East without the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Imagine North Africa without the conflict in Western Sahara. While the arms sellers would lose, the populations could develop much more harmoniously and the States thus recognized could cooperate with each other. In this fight for peace, France plays a special role which it must not forget even if it is not explicitly included in the text: a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, it must be exemplary. This responsibility is diplomatic and not military, a major distinction that is not sufficiently highlighted in the bill. This confusion is reflected in the link you make between security and development. The part of the global partnership framework entitled "Preventing and addressing crises and fragility" – paragraphs 55 to 59 –, characteristic of this confusion, leaves doubt about France's intentions. Thus, paragraph 56 states that France "is endeavouring to better coordinate all the actors involved in the fields of diplomacy, security, development, stabilization and humanitarian aid by refocusing actions on each other's missions in the context of a comprehensive approach". However, it is indicated a few lines below that France "implies all means of enabling the successful execution of the missions of each of the actors involved". Does this mean that France will use all means to enable the proper execution of its security mission, and that it will intervene at the security level wherever it deems it necessary? If there is a real need for a contiguous deployment of the various axes of intervention – humanitarian action, stabilization or development – the Communist MEPs are extremely suspicious of the irruption of the issue of security, which, moreover, disturbs the principles of neutrality, impartiality and independence of humanitarian interventions. This type of guidance also always leaves doubt about France's intentions when it intervenes in a region of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u49	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u50	For our country has often resorted to the cunning of military or even humanitarian interference to secure its interests, as when it was concerned with uranium in Niger – and what about its action in Libya? Minister, that you indicate in the bill that France reserves the right to intervene everywhere, or that you say, as you did on Tuesday during the question-and-answer session to the Government, that official development assistance is a power tool in the service of France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u51	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u52	... all of this is of great concern to us in view of our country's role in providing official development assistance. Indeed, which says instrument of power at the service of France necessarily says instrument at the service of the interests of France. For example, we have understood the notions of "increased demand for partner countries" and "reciprocity logic" mentioned in paragraph 26 of the Global Partnership Framework. Therefore, there is no question for Communist MPs to vote on a bill that distorts official development assistance to make it an additional tool in the service of our power. In this way, we cannot use ODA to establish our power on the backs of poorer States. In our view, this aid cannot be reduced to a projection of national selfishness; It must be an indispensable international equalization that corrects global inequalities. Economic growth, productivity and extractivism have allowed the countries of the North to enrich themselves considerably for almost a century, but to the detriment of the poorest countries on the planet. Today, this cult of growth prevents rich countries from moving towards a post-capitalist society whose profit would no longer be alpha and omega. Yet, given the environmental and social signals, it would be high time to do so. Economic growth has had positive effects, for sure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u53	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u54	...but the negative effects become unsustainable. The limits of the planet have been reached, we can no longer continue this way. We must now work to build another future. Official development assistance should be a tool to collectively move forward so that all mankind lives properly on our planet. To achieve this goal, we must first of all change our conception of what wealth is. The measurement of gross domestic product must be stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u56	This religion leads us to disaster. We need to change our indicators to take into account criteria other than value-added production alone. Statistics such as the Human Development Index should be used as a priority to overcome this impasse. There are many other avenues for reflection and indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u57	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u58	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u59	The bill does not talk about it while France could use these alternative indicators to measure the success of its projects. Having actually exceeded GDP, we could help the poorest countries to develop differently, perhaps even by jumping away from the productivist and extractive stage in which we are entangled. Human, economic and ecological development: this is also what we are proposing with our amendments on fair trade or on limiting the weight of free trade in the bill. The values of the text, beyond references to "sustainable development goals", should not be economic or secure. They should be those of our republican motto, quite simply. While all these problems prevent us from voting on the text as presented here, some of the mechanisms and topics discussed in the framework of a global partnership are still very interesting: the creation of a committee to evaluate the policy of solidarity development and the fight against inequalities; the publication of an annual report on official development assistance submitted to Parliament by the Government, which, even if perfectable, will at least have the merit of existence; a clearer organization of international volunteerism; Finally, the scheme allowing mobility authorities to use 1% of their resources to carry out cooperation projects in this sector. This last proposal is a commendable initiative, even if you have forgotten to take into account the organizing authorities that have introduced free public transport on their territory – but it is never too late to do well. Communist deputies will therefore not vote against this bill. However, because of everything that is not there and because of all the ideas that are present and that we consider to be harmful, we cannot vote on it as it is. You, the minister, the rapporteur, have left to make the necessary efforts to make it evolve in the course of the discussion. Your statement, Minister, at least shows that you have heard the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You have indeed given back some of the ideas that both have defended on all benches. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. "Mr. Bruno Fuchs also applauds]] Mr Minister, the rapporteur, all you have to do is move from speech to action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u60	Mrs Valérie Thomas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u61	After such a long wait, I am delighted that this bill, called our best wishes, is finally coming to this House. Thank you, rapporteur, for the quality of the work you have done, for your involvement, for your tenacity and for your energy which have contributed to what we can discuss today on this text. I welcome the memory of our late President, Marielle de Sarnez, and would like to say how much this text owes him, how much she has committed herself to ensuring that our Committee on Foreign Affairs takes full control of the subject. On behalf of my group, La République en marche, I welcome the collective work that has been carried out upstream with NGOs, with civil societies, with diasporas and other development actors, and obviously also the parliamentary work, and in particular, in addition to this legislative report by Hervé Berville, the information reports of our colleagues Rodrigue Kokouendo, Bérengère Poletti, Moetai Brotherson, Jean François Mbaye, Laurence Dumont and Aina Kuric, which inspired the spirit and letter of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u62	Let's get to the bottom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u63	I would also like to commend the excellent cooperation we have had with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his services, and I thank them for making it possible to write an ambitious text. More than 23 hours of debate in committee and more than 700 amendments tabled, of which 159 were adopted, show a real desire for co-construction, beyond the partisan affiliations and legitimate disagreements of each other. Real progress has emerged in the Committee, in particular on the issue of children's rights and equality between women and men, as well as on the strengthening of the role of all actors in development; others are coming with the amendments that we will have to consider, translations of the high expectations of this text on all benches. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the context of an unprecedented health crisis with global repercussions and multiple consequences, including the explosion of inequalities which plunges more than 150 million people, for the first time in a quarter of a century, into extreme poverty, that France takes responsibility and makes the choice, under the impetus of the President of the Republic and around the Government, to significantly increase its resources in terms of international solidarity. It is a matter of remaining faithful to our values and principles, while placing France at the centre of the world stage, at the centre of solidarity. Our policy of official development assistance is indeed one of the pillars of our external action with diplomacy and defence. As such, this bill truly gives our country a real strategic vision by defining a precise framework for the French doctrine that places our ODA in a historical upward fiscal trajectory in order to respond to sectoral and geographical priorities – allowing the passage to correct the sometimes observed gap between the priorities displayed and the funding granted. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to recall several major points of the bill. The first is the unprecedented increase in official development assistance: the text provides for an increase in official development assistance to 0.55% of GNI by 2022, and many of us have the ambition to reach the 0.7% target by 2025. The second is the concentration of this aid to nineteen of the most vulnerable countries in priority sectors identified as global public goods, in particular health, biodiversity and climate, gender equality, education, food security and malnutrition, the protection of the planet and the promotion of human rights. The third is the willingness to respond to the need for scrutiny, the need for transparency and the need for accountability to our citizens through strengthened parliamentary scrutiny, but also through the creation of an independent evaluation committee, whose role has been consolidated by several amendments in committee. The fourth focus is the introduction of innovative mechanisms such as the local development council, which strengthens our inclusive approach to the field, around ambassadors, by integrating local partners, civil societies, NGOs and other development actors. Finally, there is the axis of a new partnership doctrine which now intends to do with and not simply for, through the inclusion in particular of civil societies, diasporas and local authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Bruno Fuchs also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the absolute need for coordinated collective action. In an increasingly competitive and disputed multilateral landscape, this text is truly conducive to a renewed vision of official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u64	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u65	I obviously have, like all of you tonight, a thought for Marielle de Sarnez. Minister, finally this long-awaited programming bill for three years! It occurs in a context of multiple crises, both health, economic, social, climate and geopolitical. Unfortunately, in budgetary terms, only 2022 is revealed. It could have benefited from more ambitious orientations towards the target of 0.7% of our GNI for ODA by 2025. You tell us that you do not want to hire your successors to the Government, and yet you did so when you were defence minister with the military programming law, and quite heavily. The President of the Republic has set two objectives: 0.55% of GNI in 2022 and 0.7% in 2025... Of course, our rapporteur challenges the reliability of these figures, but trying to reach the rate of 0.7% does not prevent him from knowing, understanding and even criticising the content of this policy for France; This figure is a benchmark, an objective and an international means of comparison. I would also point out that between 2007 and 2012, the majority did not reduce official development assistance as indicated in the report. On the contrary, the total amount of ODA in 2007 amounted to almost EUR 10 billion and amounted to more than EUR 12 billion in 2011-2012, and the next majority has been responsible for reducing it for five years. First of all, it is important not to lose sight of the purpose of this policy: access to food, care, water, energy, education, equality between women and men, and contraception for women, but also job creation, anti-corruption and climate change preparedness. Secondly, in order to have an efficient approach to ODA and enable its national ownership, it is essential to strengthen the evaluation, monitoring and transparency of ODA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u67	Transparency, as set out in Article 2, must be optimal, as the opacity of this policy is great. I can only welcome, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, Mr President of the Committee, your willingness to better inform parliamentarians and citizens, in particular through a better representativeness of all political sensitivities...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u68	All of them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u69	... – or almost – within the AFD Board of Directors. We therefore need transparency on the distribution between bilateral and multilateral aid, bearing in mind that solidarity development policies are policies of influence for France, that they are expected by friendly countries, particularly in Africa, and that we do not have by definition any means of monitoring or evaluation of multilateral aid. The President of the Republic had stated that he wished to allocate two thirds of the increase in ODA to bilateral aid, and we were disappointed that this was not reflected in the text. There is also a need, and transparency will help, to reform the balance between grants and loans, with the former focusing on the poorest countries and the latter on countries in a position to repay them: the four countries most assisted by France under ODA are currently India, Turkey, Colombia and Morocco.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u70	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u71	We also expect transparency with regard to the least questionable integration of certain expenditure into ODA – such as school fees for countries that are not priorities, for example China – in terms of the amounts of direct budget aid and debt write-off – to be seen how important it is since the €4 billion debt relief to the Sudan blew up ODA – and finally, in terms of the amounts of small projects and state support for local authorities. The establishment of an independent committee to assess the policy of solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities is an indispensable step forward that must enable us to better agree collectively to these ambitious policies. It must work independently, under an impartial and objective presidency, on the same model as the British Commission. The solution of the supporting functions of the Court of Auditors, proposed by the rapporteur, seems to us within this reasonable framework, but the remarks of our President in the rostrum seem to call into question the discussion that took place in committee. In the past, France was proud of its cooperation, which was based almost exclusively on the provision of its expertise. Unfortunately, French competence has collapsed, replaced by lending policies and significant multilateralism. Yet, in African countries, this expertise is more than necessary, especially among administrations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur, the chairman of the committee and Mr Bertrand Pancher also applaud]] These are all the exciting issues that await us, ladies and gentlemen, and if there is a policy on which we must find ourselves, respect ourselves and avoid the caricatureal postures that I have seen about consular passes, it is indeed that of solidarity co-development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u72	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u73	The promise is kept. And when I say that, I am of course thinking with a lot of emotion and affection to Marielle de Sarnez, with whom we would have so much wanted to live this moment and share this text to which she strongly contributed. This commitment, of course, we can also be proud of it collectively and in solidarity because, a few months ago in this House, we voted for the official development assistance mission, an increase for the fourth year in a row, which is proof that this commitment is thought out, built and solid. Every year, since 2017, we have taken another step towards the achievement of the presidential promise to raise our official development assistance from 0.37 per cent of gross national income in 2015 to 0.55 per cent by 2022. But our ambition does not end there, as we are all here with the intention of raising our effort to 0.7% of GNI in the years to come. It will be appropriate in our discussions to find the best wording in this respect, but I have heard the rapporteur at the moment say that the target was 0.7% by 2025. Through such a budgetary effort, we are giving France the chance to regain its role as a reference nation in the fight against global inequalities, to become the flagship nation of international solidarity and to catch up with the backlog, particularly in relation to the United Kingdom, which has already invested more than 0.7% of its GNI in ODA. This effort is far from being just a symbol, we must measure its full scope, even though the world, particularly the most vulnerable countries, has never needed international solidarity so much. It is a matter of launching a strong dynamic of reshaping the direction, organization and effectiveness of our development policy. Among the progress made in the text, I am thinking first of all of the clear definition of geographical areas and priority sectors. As President Marielle de Sarnez had wished, it was necessary that our development policy should better target the areas where effort should be made. That is why I am pleased to see, for example, that the Sahel, so important for France, is now among the priority geographical areas. Given the terrorist, security and political dangers, it is all the more crucial to provide targeted and consistent assistance to this region. Recomposition of priority spaces, I said, but also recomposition of tools: AFD, for example, will be able to continue its transformation, grow and integrate new operators. Its work is essential and must continue ever more closely with the various actors, in particular with civil society but also with local and regional authorities, whose role is confirmed and who will have to become increasingly involved in the years to come. In this regard, in our committee work, the Government has set as its ambition that community action on development assistance should be doubled. Strongly committed to decentralization and confidence in community action, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcomes this ambition. As with States, communities have an important role to play in development assistance: this is what we learn from the growth of decentralized cooperation and multilateralism in large cities. Be careful, however, that this wish can be fully translated into reality. The extension of the 1% mobility mechanism goes in the right direction, but in our view remains somewhat timid. The means must be more proportionate to intentions. The third point that was expected was the monitoring and evaluation of new development policies: it would be achieved with the establishment of an independent commission to assess the impact of development assistance. This monitoring will also be carried out by parliamentarians, who will now have to discuss this policy on the basis of a detailed report provided by the Government. Parliament will monitor the funds allocated for development assistance on a regular and accurate basis. We also want to have more readability and transparency on the indicators that measure it. The bill turned a page that kept our public assistance in a suspicion about the use of certain funds. Its strength is also to reaffirm France's strategic objectives by placing environmental and climate diplomacy at the heart of its development policy. For the Dem Group, the integration of educational and cultural policies as priorities is still a step forward, as is the inclusion of children's rights. Thanks to the commitment of our colleague Sylvain Waserman, we will make new proposals, including on sexual mutilation and child soldiers. Our group was also heard about the inclusion of local elected representatives of French abroad as partners in development policy. It was also on the consideration of international youth mobility as a sectoral priority. At the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, we believe that we can go even further and reshape public policies relating to international mobility. I would also like to welcome the joint action of parliamentarians to move forward with the old subject of ill-acquired goods, on which we have been mobilized for many years. A first step has been taken in committee, but we propose further clarification of the arrangements for refunds. We will make suggestions in this direction, in line with the bill passed in the Senate, under the leadership of Jean-Pierre Sueur, which I welcome. I would also like to highlight the proposal to make a reliable civil status a strong focus of our policy. The fight against so-called identityless children has given rise to an edifying report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Along with the Assemblée parlementaire de la francophonie and other countries already engaged, France is right to tackle such a painful and scandalous subject, as Jean-Louis Bourlanges has just said. This commitment to a multilateral resolution of the great problems of our time is indeed a hallmark of our diplomacy, as is evident in the bill. In general, among the concrete advances that have been made, we should also note the determined action on health, at a time when the whole world is facing an unprecedented epidemic. Finally, I welcome the consistency of the text's ambition with the human resources necessary for its implementation. Indeed, there would be nothing worse than providing funds without being able to invest them quickly and effectively in the field. I know the minister very vigilant on this point, he reminded us in this rostrum a few moments ago, and I welcome the financial and budgetary commitments that he has made possible. In our view, this coherence must not stop there. The result of the bill is the affirmation of the common development policy, as an arm of France's diplomacy, as the minister has just pointed out. After the first reading, we believe that it is still necessary and quite possible to make a number of points still outstanding. For example, we consider it necessary for Parliament to reflect on the coherence between the development aid granted to certain States and the position of our own diplomacy with regard to those same States. I am thinking in particular of the promotion of democracy and the rule of law. It is also necessary to strengthen the tool that mobility programmes represent by creating a dedicated agency. Many voices have expressed themselves in this direction, we would have every interest in fully investing in this field; This is not only about student mobility, but also about the mobility of young people, volunteers, talents, professionals and thus skills. Promoting and organising mobility means reducing global inequalities. This is true when a Frenchman brings special skills to a country that does not have them, but also when a foreigner can train in France by then making use of his expertise for his own country. Finally, we would benefit from emphasizing this ambition by including in the law the objective that we all share: to devote 0.7% of gross GNI to development aid in the near future. Mr Minister, as you said, this is indeed a change of pace in the service of a new ambition. You yourself, you held on. I remember, as Jean-Louis Bourlanges and others recalled, the doubts expressed very widely during your first speech in the 2017 rostrum. We held on. The commitment of the President of the Republic will be honoured, even though his predecessors had renounced. We are pleased to see French development policy reaffirmed as a strong marker of our international recognition. Let us also be proud to publicly claim that, in an increasingly unjust world, France has understood and publicly affirms that the help of the weakest demands the means of the strongest. (Applause on the benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Jean Lassalle also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u74	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u75	The same word, humanity, has two meanings: that of the dignity of the person, and that of our common home or, to take up the pretty slogan of the Agence française de développement, a world in common. These two senses of the word humanity refer to a very recent discovery, with a growing awareness in our society: everything is connected, between ecology, economy, the health of societies and that of the men and women of this earth; Everything is connected, between what is happening here, in our Western societies, and what is happening at the other end of the world. We are definitely interdependent in a globalized world. Whether globalization tends towards infinite expansion or withdrawal is possible, as we have seen in recent years, we have no choice but that of solidarity sovereignty. Mireille Delmas-Marty, who developed this extremely rich concept, opposes him to solitary sovereignty and to a globalization without faith or law. Sovereignty is that of peoples and communities of peoples: I am of course thinking of the extraordinary adventure of the European Union, which is the only one able to bring to the world the voice of peace and civilization that we incarnate and of which we are heirs. Sovereignty in solidarity, we want it for ourselves and for others. This interdependence in solidarity is our horizon; It is an ethic that does not pay for words and is not like a fanion at the top of the mast, but rather like the governing body of public policies carried out here and elsewhere. This ethic can be found in three words: coherence, law and sharing. First of all, consistency: of course, we can be glad to have introduced a "1% transport" scheme, which is in addition to "1% waste", "1% water" or "1% energy". I am dreaming, with the members of the Socialist and related group, of a development law focused on 100% fair trade and 0% for tax havens: that day, we will live up to the challenges of the world. Coherence is needed because we cannot do on one side and break on the other, destroy value and create unfair development. We cannot destroy 28 million hectares through land grabbing or 12 million hectares of primary forests solely because of the lure of gain and the call for profit and, at the same time, dig wells and finance official development assistance amounting to 1 per cent, or even 2 per cent to 3 per cent, or sometimes 0.1 per cent of global financial flows. I call for consistency between our development models and the consequences they have not only at the end of the street, but to the end of the world. As we know, our consumption pattern means that in July or August we have already consumed all of the earth's annual resources. However, if temperatures rise by more than two degrees Celsius, no genetic engineering will compensate for the expected 20 per cent decline in yields in sub-Saharan Africa. The geostrategic consequences will be immeasurable, we will suffer them with all the forms of violence and indignity that we know. Then come the rights. The Socialist and Related Group has focused its efforts on extending the rule of law to all our partners. This is the meaning of the proposals we make around civil status, because development begins with the identity of the person. There is indeed an unwavering, and somewhat mysterious, connection between the dignity of the person and the fact that we are going to save our common home. We have to give a name, an identity to every child on the planet, in every country we work with. Criteria for corporate social responsibility must apply to all trade related to official development assistance. Initiatives on the extractive industries and blood ores must be undertaken. Alliance 8.7 against trafficking in human beings and child labour must be supported. We need to be vigilant in Europe and around the world as a directive. Land rights are needed. At this moment, I cannot help but think of François Tanguy-Prigent and Edgard Pisani, those men who, after the war, founded modern agriculture on a humanist design. Having cooperated internationally, they returned to France, in the round-trip that the minister referred to in his presentation of the bill. They challenged our own development models in the name of what they had discovered in their African experience. We must draw inspiration from these paths that link rights and democracy to sharing. Without sharing, there is no democracy and without democracy, there is no sharing. The land law is universal: wherever land is shared, democracy and prosperity prevail; Wherever there is a grip, we encounter authoritarian ultraliberal systems and impoverishment of society. I am thinking at this moment of Joseph Wresinski and his final sentence, which was once again put after the war, in the shanty towns of our cities: "Where men are condemned to live in misery, human rights are violated. Uniting to enforce them is a sacred duty. It is this sacred duty that brings us together in a struggle for coherence, justice and law. I hope that we will make progress on this text in order to help each other and, by giving our hand, to make progress together. (Applause from the SOC and GDR groups. – MM. Olivier Becht and Bruno Fuchs also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u76	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u77	In 2017, the President of the Republic made a commitment that France should be at the forefront of the development challenge. We are here to give concrete expression to this commitment, and I would like to thank the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, for having been able to discuss a text that places particular emphasis on the sustainable development goals, as set out in the sustainable development agenda adopted on 25 September 2015 by the UN General Assembly. Strong international cooperation is more necessary than ever to ensure that all countries have the means to achieve these SDGs. Since the adoption in November 2020 of the motion for a resolution on the evolution of the Constitution to enable the integration of sustainable development objectives into the legislative process, I can only welcome the initiatives that put them at the heart of our texts. The 17th SDG states that "the great ambition of the SDGs is based on strong global cooperation and partnerships. Its implementation will lead to the achievement of the first sixteen that are crucial to our development strategy. Renovation of partnerships also applies in our relations with countries where we have development projects. We must build with them, especially with those in Africa, the foundations of a new relationship based on equality, transparency and, above all, reciprocity. As a reminder, our official development assistance targets 19 priority countries, including 18 in Africa, mainly in the Sahel. The OECD defines official development assistance as "aid provided by States with the express purpose of promoting economic development and improving living conditions in developing countries". Let us understand: it is not in any way a question of giving alms to these countries, but of putting in place a real principle of reciprocity, for France also has to gain from it. In this context, we have enriched the text. It should be noted, for example, the adoption in committee of the amendment tabled by the majority groups, which states that the indicators selected in the framework of public policies carried out by the State and local authorities must correspond to the global monitoring indicators, namely the sustainable development objectives. We will continue to enrich the text. In particular, I would like to highlight the issue of children without identity – which was the subject of a fact-finding mission whose report, adopted unanimously in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will be discussed in the Chamber on 3 March. In this regard, I thank the Socialist and Related Group for its mobilization. According to the latest figures from the United Nations Children's Fund, published in December 2019, one in four children is not registered at birth in the world, and one in three children has no identity documents. Beyond the individual consequences for each child – lack of identity means limited access to education, exposure to the risk of trafficking, recruitment into armed conflict or forced marriage – States' development is also limited. A reliable civil registry allows a government to know the population it administers and thus to define the needs for public services and broad economic policies. This topic has been a timid entry into the overall partnership annexed to the bill, but access to a legal identity must be an apparent priority of our international development policy. The Action Together Group and the Dem Group will jointly propose an amendment to give it a more important and clearer place. I thank the previous speakers who have referred to our fight against the scourge of children without identity. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups Dem and LaREM]] In conclusion, I will quote the speech of the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou: "If we manage to meet these challenges together, if we are up to this great turning point that we are in the process of living, then here will be a part of the growth of the world. Dear colleagues, let's go to the rendezvous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u78	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u79	The covid-19 pandemic has changed the stakes of official development assistance by raising the need for a reshaping of the governance of our solidarity development policy. Because it exacerbates existing inequalities, the health, economic and social crisis associated with the pandemic has a significant impact on development progress. This bill is therefore presented as a renovation of the methods of action of development policy, in the form of a renewed partnership with partner countries and with all relevant development actors in France, in particular civil society organisations and local and regional authorities. Development aid is an area where little legislation is being enacted, as the means are more important than legal terms. Reaffirming objectives and defining principles, however, must concentrate the energy of the French legislator. On behalf of the IDU and independent group, I will therefore focus on some specific points in the bill to which these objectives and principles correspond. The means are, of course, the central objective, the nerve of war. With regard to the budgetary provisions of this programming bill, we are still wondering about the planned period, namely the period 2020-2025, when the scheme will naturally be limited to the end of this quinquennium, so to 2022: what could be the scope of such a measure? Is this a transfer of responsibility to the next government? Without a long-term vision and in comparison with the scope of the military programming law and that of research, this programming bill seems in some respects in half-tone or even fragile. We therefore wanted to strengthen parliamentary control over this issue in 2022. In view of its role in budgetary matters, it is Parliament's responsibility to detail, approve and evaluate any such objective and trajectory. The representatives of the nation we are are, in fact, actors in development policy, whose implementation they must monitor. We will remind you of this by means of several amendments. We therefore look forward to a clearer commitment by the Government on the fiscal trajectory between 2023 and 2025, recalling that France must comply with the commitments made in the Addis Ababa Programme of Action. Setting ambitious goals is one thing, being linked to it is another. France may be proud to have reached the 0.55 per cent share of gross national income devoted to international development, but it is more difficult to see in which direction the Government is committed to reaching 0.7 per cent. I come to the first principle that, in our view, must guide French international solidarity: transparency. This is a point dear to our colleague Meyer Habib, who followed the debates in committee, even though he was unable to participate in his constituency. In particular, the tracing of AFD's funding needs to be improved and its tasks limited exclusively to the implementation of the policy of aid for the development of the State abroad and to the contribution to the development of local and regional authorities. It is not acceptable that, in recent years, AFD has provided financial support for initiatives that seem to be far from development-related. In order to better assess the results of France's action and to increase transparency regarding the use of the resources committed, the draft law provides for the establishment of an independent evaluation commission. Although we do not support the systematic proliferation of committees and other committees, let us try to ensure that it is useful and truly independent. In this regard, we welcome the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment in Article 9. As the debates have shown, the composition of a commission does not fall within the scope of the law. In the interests of transparency and balance, it therefore seems necessary to add parliamentarians whose role is to participate in the evaluation of cross-cutting public policies. In this sense, we wanted to extend the ex ante and ex post control of the Court of Auditors within the framework of the various monitoring missions for public development aid policies, thanks to the establishment of this independent committee, which would be chaired by the First President of the Court of Auditors. Presented as a "new paradigm", the strengthening of the partnership dimension cannot be achieved without civil society actors and local and regional authorities. We agree with that other principle. In this regard, we welcome the doubling by 2022 of the State support funds for civil society organisations and local and regional authorities. I cannot speak of local and regional authorities without mentioning the ultramarine territories, which are seriously affected by the health crisis. Their economy is considerably degraded by the measures put in place to deal with them. The AFD has certainly deployed EUR 1 billion in aid under the "Common Overseas" initiative to accompany these territories during the health crisis, but, while the suspension of tourism continues, the ultramarine territories are making an alarm call! It is essential that they benefit from the increase in AFD's appropriations and support the revival of their economic activity. This is the subject of our colleague Nicole Sanquer's amendment. It is also necessary to continue discussions on the granting of development aid conditional on the effective issuance of consular passes. Indeed, if we wish to strengthen our development aid, especially during this crisis, we must also make it conditional on full cooperation by the partner countries in favour of the readmission of their nationals when they are not admitted to France. This cooperation must be carried out jointly within a European framework. In a spirit of partnership with countries with access to official development assistance, it is natural that there should be a high degree of cooperation on immigration control and on the ability of some States to control their borders, combat smuggling networks or modernize their civil status. In this sense, development aid must be mobilised in the context of mutual commitments with our partners. This idea was already discussed by Jean-Christophe Lagarde during the debate on the migration policy of France and Europe last autumn. Finally, development policy must evolve with the challenges of its century. It should be borne in mind that official development assistance is aimed at economic development and improving living conditions. It therefore makes no sense if, at the same time, entire areas of the globe become invivable. In this regard, it is essential to ensure coherence between the policy of solidarity development and the policy of environment and climate. While migrations linked to environmental transformations are not new, let us not forget that the number of "climate refugees" is now increasing due to the intensification of extreme weather events. According to the International Organization for Migration (IOM), climate disasters could result in the displacement of about 250 million people by 2050. Areas at risk include sub-Saharan Africa as a result of droughts, South and South-East Asia exposed to typhoons and tsunamis, and small island States facing rising sea levels. Poverty is indeed creating a lack of resilience that exacerbates climate inequality. We therefore welcome the statement by Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian that "of 2 euros of AFD financing, 1 euro directly serves the fight against climate change". It will probably be up to the independent commission to assess the reality of this much-needed commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we approach this text with kindness and we welcome the search for the consensus that has presided over in committee. However, we are waiting to see at which levels the principles I have detailed will be incorporated: we hope for clarification in the debates, in particular on the somewhat artificial aspect of budgetary programming that comes to the end of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u80	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u81	This bill on official development assistance is basically about getting an umbrella out of the tornado. First of all, it happens very late: as you know, it should have been examined in 2019 – it's 2021. The detailed examination of the text reveals that the terms used are above ground because they date from before the crisis of the covid-19. However, we are experiencing a new situation where 115 million people are at risk of falling into poverty, that is to say, an income of less than $2 a day. Meanwhile, the wealth of the world's twenty-five richest people has increased by $25 billion in two months. So we are facing the explosion of inequality: this situation should have been further incorporated into the bill before us. Secondly, the ambition of this text is insufficient, as it confirms a further refusal to comply with the commitment made on 24 October 1970 to allocate 0.7 per cent of gross national income to official development assistance. Of course, the commitment of the President of the Republic to reach 0.55% is fulfilled, but that of France to reach 0.7% is not, and it seems to me that at the same time we miss the march of progress and solidarity that a great nation, an economic power as rich as France could and should have crossed. The bill maintains official development assistance in its contradictions, rather than clarifying its direction and purpose. As we have said in committee, and I repeat, even if you have tried to correct the situation with an amendment since then: the absence of normative values in this text is, in my view, totally revealing the ambiguities of the official development assistance mission. Once again, we expected this text to clarify things and to put an end to the notorious lack of transparency that characterizes AFD and its famous subsidiary Proparco – Société de promotion et de participation pour la coopération économique –: the parliamentary debate did not shed any light on this matter. Thus this text, which is a veritable gruyère, does not at the same time make room for transparency; This evening, therefore, there is a strange and immense feeling of mismatch between, on the one hand, the fine words spoken both by Minister Le Drian and by the parliamentarians of the running Republic, who have come to explain to us wonderful provisions and, on the other hand, this text which does not provide for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u82	And what did you do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u83	I take an example: equality between men and women, a question on which I have heard you rejoice many times that it is taken with arms-to-body.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u84	We had to stay on the second day!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u85	Forgive me, even though I know that it is supposed to be the priority of the quinquennium, equality between men and women is completely absent from the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u86	It's in Title I!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u87	It is mentioned in a paragraph in the annex. Moreover, apart from the title of the bill, the fight against global inequalities is not addressed anywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u88	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u89	This is not a strong subject of this text, missing one of the major targets that should be at the heart of the ambitions and objectives of official development assistance. It is not even a law of programming since the fiscal trajectory that we are about to vote ends in 2022, when we are in 2021. It's still amazing! When we think of development aid policies, we must be able to put them on a long-term basis, since they are not short-term projects but long-term projects that the countries we work with must be able to anticipate. From this point of view, it is nothing. We were told that elections will take place, which could lead to a change of majority. Then, in this case, no law is passed, since this change of majority will affect all the texts that will be adopted and can be completely amended. Therefore, I wonder what is the point of having parliamentary debates on structural elements of our public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u90	You say everything you need...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u91	Finally, it is the gap between the stated objectives and the reality of France's policies that seems to me, in a way, to be the most serious thing concerning official development assistance. There are contradictions between, on the one hand, the policy you are pursuing, Mr. Le Drian, you and the Government, and the commitments that France is making, and, on the other hand, the key objectives that we could include in official development assistance. I take two concrete examples. Firstly, between 2015 and 2018, the French state subsidized fossil fuels to the tune of 2 billion euros, through export guarantees. The same amount represents the financing of AFD between 2015 and 2017 to the poorest countries for adaptation to climate change. So you can see that something is wrong! On the one hand, you cannot contribute EUR 2 billion to poor countries to adapt to climate challenges and, on the other, to finance public policies that favour fossil fuels. So we should at least tell ourselves frankly: either subsidies are paid in a coherent way to all cross-cutting policies, or all this makes no sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u92	In 2015, that was not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u93	I told you between 2015 and 2018 for the first grant and between 2015 and 2017 for the second funding. We're not going to pin on the numbers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u94	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u95	... because in this case, it is not just a question of amount, it is a question of political logic and, in this particular case, I see a contradiction. If that's not enough for you, Mr. Berville, here's a second example. I am thinking of this €9 million French loan, from which the largest Armenian fruit and vegetable trader has benefited to create heated greenhouses for intensive production of tomatoes and peppers, all for export to the European Union, through a French group that has received a tax credit of around €10 million for this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u96	Armenia is not ODA!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u97	Our foreign policy to help development is quite contradictory to the objectives you have set. The nature of official development assistance also seems to me to be fundamentally at stake because support for the private sector is growing. The Annex's detailed trajectory indicates that support to the private sector will increase by 89% between 2020 and 2022, to EUR 769 million. I see it as a danger, because in essence, official development aid is used to subsidise French companies, which is a profound distortion of its objectives. We had also made the same observations with regard to diplomacy. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Between 2007 and 2013, Proparco transported more than $500 million through tax havens, despite the rules that were taken by AFD. This phenomenon continues, as millions of euros are still being transferred, via Malta or the Cayman Islands. It's still a real problem! That an institution of official development assistance resorts to tax havens, there is definitely something that is not right and I do not see the improvements in the text in this regard. Private ownership of official development assistance is an oxymore, a true alliance of opposites, against which it is imperative to mobilize. In fact, in ten years, more than 70% of Proparco's investments have been in agro-industrial projects, while in 2018 less than 20% of official development aid was in the social sectors. So we are witnessing a real drift. The rise in loans instead of grants is, in the same way, a denaturing of official development assistance. We are thus moving towards objectives that worry me because they highlight, I repeat, the mismatch between words and deeds. I will conclude my remarks by evoking one of the hypocrisys of the moment – there is still a package. With regard to the vaccine, Minister, which you mentioned earlier when you spoke of the common good: do you remember the French refusal to support India and South Africa in the World Health Organization when they asked to suspend intellectual rights in vaccines and medicines during the pandemic? As we sit at the WHO, without being dependent on the European Union, France did not support these countries. It is imperative that we leave the neoliberal operating system. If you don't mind these big differences, or even these contradictions, since the Republic on the march lives under the era of "at the same time", I assure you that we condemn them, we contest them and we will not vote them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u98	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u99	Today we are considering the so-called "programming bill" on solidarity development and the fight against inequality. This text was very much expected and, as you know, its presentation led to a real disappointment. Nevertheless, real work has been done in committee, for which I thank the Minister, the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, who have been very involved throughout our discussions. My colleague Bertrand Pancher recalled these advances. I will add to his remarks by referring to the fact that you have also agreed that the global partnership framework – GPC – makes explicit reference to the rights of the child as a priority: it is now left to be included in the marble of the law. You have agreed to make the G5 Sahel countries a priority and to give priority to the countries of the Western Balkans. On the other hand, while this text was expected as a major programming bill finally drawing a path to give visibility to the actors, it still proposes, at this stage, only mainly retroactive programming and does not set a time frame for reaching the benchmark of 0.7% of the gross national income promised since the 1970s. Mr. Rapporteur, you called this temporal milestone of your wishes in your report submitted in 2018. You tabled an amendment to that effect, which you withdrew in committee. However, the new amendment you have tabled represents a step backwards, since instead of indicating that the 0.7% percentage should be reached by 2025, it is now clear that France will strive to achieve it by 2025. We are in the most complete blur...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u100	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u101	...and we don't understand anything about it anymore. Indeed, Minister, when you first indicated in committee that you were against this 0.7% target, you then acknowledged that it was a "historical reference,"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u102	Yes, that's what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u103	... before indicating that he had already been reached. What is certain is that, as you pointed out, it is "a measure of effort, a reference that allows us to compare, and a historical reference." However, it is not enough to recall this principle: it is also necessary, as in any programming law, to make temporal commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u104	If it's blurred, there's a wolf!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u105	Exactly! On the other hand, it is also essential to provide additional guarantees, if this percentage is to actually mean something, as you have pointed out, Minister. It is for this reason that our amendments aim to make commitments in absolute terms and to adopt shifts towards expenditure that we consider to be priorities, as well as targeting to priority countries, within the framework of larger percentage commitments or calculated on a wider basis. However, we regret that no real intellectual work to clarify the commitments and their nature has been carried out on these issues since the beginning of the term – now four years – by the executive and the majority, as you mentioned, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Indeed, the 0.7% target only makes sense if the amount of GNI is not affected by cyclical crises that cause it to fall; that if the expenditure recorded is not an artifice allowed, of course, by the OECD criteria, but removed from any reality on the ground; If there is a rebalancing of loans for grants and, to a certain extent, in a bilateral context. France fought at European level for the recovery plan to do more than a majority of donations to deal with the crisis: we then denounced the so-called frugal countries. What we want for ourselves, however, is that we reject it as part of our official development assistance. As we know, the demonstration is no longer to be done: we cannot respond to what feeds the terrorist threat and organized crime, to what exacerbates the climate threat, to the phenomena that increase the flows of migration not chosen solely by restrictive laws and agreements with foreign countries to take care of those who are not wanted on our territory. This requires the emergence of people from insecurity and vulnerability; the beginning of a virtuous circle of sustainable growth; the response to environmental, health, educational and cultural issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u107	Therefore, it needs to be empowered by providing guarantees of amount, visibility, readability, accessibility and governance. This requires that we not make defending our interests a priority that goes before aid to the people. This means encouraging democracy, without giving any guarantee by its presence, statements or writings to the leaders of countries that despise their own constitution, imprison their opponents, repress their own population, as in Côte d'Ivoire and Guinea, suppress freedom of expression or organise fraud, as in Niger during the first round of elections. This requires not to have values of variable geometry, by denouncing alexeï Navalny's detention in Russia aloud while silent on the detention of MP Alain Lobognon in Côte d'Ivoire, who, in the midst of parliamentary elections, must campaign from his prison. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] We abstained on the bill when it was considered in committee, because we believe that if this legislation does not provide real guarantees about the amounts and their nature, as well as about governance, if it does not give priority to the needs of the people, it is interesting, without being up to the challenges of the twenty-first century. In this way, we will be careful to take into account what we consider to be imperatives, in order to eventually change our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u108	Mr Mustapha Laabid has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u109	As you know, the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between women and men has since its creation committed itself to bringing the voice of all women in France, as well as abroad, and to establishing the principle of equality between women and men as a priority of public action. I am very pleased to speak on his behalf today on this bill. This gives us the opportunity to deal with a very important subject, that of France's foreign feminist policy and diplomacy. This is a topic on which our delegation has long committed itself, because it is a proven factor in the sustainability of human development, stability and social innovation. Thus, this subject, far from being anecdotal, affects all areas of intervention of the policy of solidarity development. I would like to add that official development assistance is also committed to human rights, in the fight against modern slavery and trafficking in human beings, and in the empowerment of women and girls. In a cross-cutting and specific way, official development assistance is therefore the preferred instrument for the implementation of feminist diplomacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u111	The delegation for women's rights had received the text. His rapporteur, Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, has provided us with a detailed report containing ten recommendations, which have been set out in twenty-five amendments that our delegation has adopted. Three major points emerge from these proposals. First of all, we wish to strengthen France's commitment to feminist diplomacy and the protection of fundamental rights around the world. Secondly, we propose even more ambitious official development assistance targets for equality between women and men. Finally, we wish to reaffirm the need to promote parity in official development assistance governance forums. First, if France's international commitment to gender equality is old, we are witnessing a marked intensification of its action since 2017. This bill goes in the direction of history by explicitly claiming feminist diplomacy. We welcome the consecration of this concept and welcome this major step forward. We suggest, however, that France's commitment to women's rights be further affirmed: firstly, by recalling that feminist diplomacy is only a component of feminist foreign policy, which also encompasses commercial and financial relations and defence policy; Then by reaffirming France's commitment to the fight against all gender-based and sexual violence, which materialised in 2014 through the ratification of the Istanbul Convention by France – it would be worth recalling in the text. The second element is that the bill sanitizes the increase in official development assistance until 2022. It is one of the most effective means of influencing the lives of women in the world. Through a budgetary mission of more than €3.6 billion in 2020, France already has a significant key force, which the text plans to increase further to reach €4.8 billion in payment appropriations in 2022. Gender equality is a general and cross-cutting objective, which means that it must not only be addressed through targeted actions and programmes, but also irrigate all development assistance policies. In this context, the report annexed to the draft law transcribes the objective, for the Agence française de développement, that all of these projects and programmes are marked "gender" and that 50% of its annual volume of commitments have, by 2022, equality between women and men as their main or significant objective. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has raised this rate to 75 per cent, while the delegation to women's rights and equality between women and men proposes to increase it to 85 per cent, with a minimum of 30 per cent of projects or programmes with gender equality as their main objective. In addition, there is a need to improve the measurement instruments and indicators proposed by the bill. As such, our delegation proposes to systematize the gender-based variation of the data presented in the results framework. Finally, third and final point, the realization of feminist diplomacy requires more ambitious objectives in terms of governance. The bill refers to four governance or oversight bodies. In line with its work on economic governance and the civil service, the delegation proposed to make them mandatory. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This text is indeed a real step forward and a concrete translation of the President's commitments to equality between men and women in the world. It is up to us, as legislators, to take this attention even further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u112	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u113	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u114	After a very long wait, to the point that we ended up losing faith in it, our assembly is finally considering the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. In terms of programming, this bill has only the title, since after many postponements it has only one fiscal year, that of 2022. It is therefore with regret that we find it necessary to wait until the end of the quinquennium to examine, by working urgently, an important text which must implement the presidential commitment to allocate 0.55 per cent of gross national income to official development assistance and to increase this contribution in the future by 0.7 per cent. Minister, this promise should be kept and we welcome it. For, beyond the figure a little totem of 0.55%, it is France's overall effort and its commitment to fighting global inequalities more effectively that are affirmed here. Of course, all eyes are now on the fight against the global pandemic of covid-19, which spares no continent. Nevertheless, many countries remain heavily affected by rising poverty, increasing inequality and humanitarian distress that cannot leave anyone indifferent. In the coming years, the effects of climate change, conflicts and successive and combined crises will further increase the evils of developing countries and the most fragile populations, especially since we will also have to face one of the most important challenges facing humanity, that of the global population explosion, particularly on the African continent. While the world's population stood at 7.3 billion in 2017, UN forecasts indicate that humanity will have more than 8.5 billion people in 2030 and 11.2 billion in 2100. It is in Africa that population growth will be greatest, a continent to which France gives priority in the allocation of its official development assistance. The African continent will account for more than half of the world's population growth over the next 30 years, as its population is expected to double, from a billion people today to 2.3 billion in less than 30 years. This unchecked population growth in many countries will bring a major poverty shock to the entire world, which will inevitably lead to a greater migration of people, who will flee poverty. The Niger alone will see its population triple, from 23 million in 2019 to over 70 million in 2050, which is not without questioning us because this country is one of the poorest in the world and its birth rate is seven children per woman. It is therefore our responsibility, that of France and the entire international community, to participate in the global effort to combat poverty and for development. It is our responsibility to support the most vulnerable countries towards a more prosperous, sustainable and inclusive growth model and to assist them in their ecological and energy transition. As we have said on several occasions, France's development aid policy strategy needs to be clarified and its management strengthened, better evaluated and better monitored in full transparency, in order to enhance its readability and to measure its results. It is on this condition that our citizens will be able to take greater ownership of this policy, which is the honour of France. These priorities should lead us to focus our assistance on priority least developed countries, to develop bilateral assistance and to respond to global challenges affecting all continents: climate and biodiversity, health, education, access to water and food, human rights and equality between women and men. With more than EUR 14 billion mobilized in 2022, we must also fully assume that development aid is an important axis of our foreign policy, at the service of our diplomacy and influence. Development aid is essential to ensure the stability and security of the countries we help.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u116	That is why France also wants to encourage the retention of elites – teachers, engineers or doctors – in their country of origin, so that they can participate in their development. Similarly, it is normal for us to expect greater cooperation from some countries for the return of their nationals when they are in an irregular situation in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u117	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u118	I'm done, Madam President, I won't be long. Ladies and gentlemen, last week we had a lot of discussions in committee, but, Mr President, the rapporteur, there is still some room for progress so that you can listen even more to the opposition and that we can build together a bill that we all want to agree on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u119	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u120	In the debate that begins, the Republicans will pay particular attention to improving the provisions relating to programming after 2022, to informing and consulting Parliament, to respecting pluralism in the various bodies...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u121	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u122	... and the real capacity for evaluation and control. We will be attentive and constructive...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u123	[[Mr. Michel Herbillon continues his speech without microphone. – Rites and applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] You no longer have the floor, my colleague. I have no doubt that you will make a concise effort to defend your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u124	Five minutes, it's going fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u125	Especially when they last six minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u126	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u127	And for six minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u128	Under the leadership of our late President Marielle de Sarnez and now that of Jean-Louis Bourlanges, our committee has done constant work to keep its members at a high level of information and understanding on major international issues, within the framework of original parliamentary diplomacy. It also monitors treaties and conventions, but it is not every day that it examines such a significant text and we can be pleased that a bill like this has found its place in a particularly bottled parliamentary agenda. This is another reason not to miss the opportunity to put our development aid on track. The preparatory work in committee has enabled us, I believe, to improve the text: I will mention two topics on which the amendments we have made represent progress on the original bill. First, I am pleased that we have found a place to promote the "great green wall", a project that spans nearly 9,000 kilometres long and 15 kilometres wide, connecting eleven countries from Senegal to Djibouti, and which aims to provide political solutions to multiple and complex environmental and social threats, such as land degradation, desertification, drought, climate change, loss of biodiversity, poverty, or food insecurity. This project aims to ensure the socio-economic development of local communities by creating multi-faceted platforms for wealth-generating activities, to increase access to basic social services, to manage the transition to the green economy and to eradicate poverty and food insecurity. One Planet Summit, held in January, was the subject of one of its flagship announcements, promising significant funding for this African project to fight the desert advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u130	France's official development assistance to the Sahel can only be part of this integrated and concerted mechanism, the aim of which is to restore confidence and hope to the people of the Sahel, in particular to their youth. Secondly, I am pleased that we have also taken into account, at least in part, the work of my colleague Laurence Dumont...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u131	And Aina Kuric!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u132	...on children without civil status. I am thinking of the amendment adopted in committee to dedicate part of the annual envelope of the solidarity fund for innovative projects, civil societies, the Francophonie and human development and that of decentralised cooperation to actions to promote birth registration and to establish reliable civil states. I am also thinking of the amendment aimed at systematically integrating a component of birth registration and support for the establishment of reliable civil states into humanitarian projects related to health, education, access to law and equality between women and men. I regret, however, that we have not been able to agree on amendments relating to our external audiovisual services. French development aid must not be exempt from playing a role in cultural and audiovisual matters. The framework of the global partnership specifies that, in a context of profound questioning of multilateralism and international cooperation, of increased competition between major powers that highlight divergent discourses and interests, and while new actors are investing in the field of development, without necessarily sharing the rules and values forged by the international community over the last few decades, France's development policy allows us to project our values internationally, our priorities and our interests, as well as those of Europe, and to make them known within multilateral institutions and among the main players in development. We proposed adding that development policy is also based on cultural and audiovisual cooperation measures, taking into account the convergences expressed each year by the members of the committee when examining external audiovisual credits. We are even more disappointed that there was no agreement on the representation of the opposition on AFD's board of directors. I very much hope that the discussion in the Chamber will bring us to a conclusion on this subject. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM group]] In any event, ladies and gentlemen, you can count on the constructive vigilance of Members of the Socialist and Related Group to ensure that this text is up to the shared ambitions of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u133	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u134	Inas, inas, mayrix ad-ass ix i-zmane. Una ur yufin maradic yuna ditmun.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u135	Please speak in French, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u136	This Berber sentence speaks of fraternity and above all of mutual aid in a common journey. Nobel Prize in Literature in 1988, Egyptian Naguib Mahfouz wrote in his novel The Impassedtwopalais that "satisfaction is the key to deliverance." That is the feeling we feel today by addressing the long-awaited review of the draft programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. It bears witness to the attention paid by the Government to this issue, while the overload of the parliamentary calendar raised fears of a further postponement. We can say that, minister, we put it in our shoes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u137	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u138	But we adopted the text in committee and I thank all my colleagues with whom we worked for two days. Not known to the majority of our compatriots but a source of fantasies among some of our partners, our policy of official development assistance is nevertheless an important dimension of our diplomacy. To this end, it is urgent, Minister, to strengthen our communication system, to promote and explain the action of France, carried out through our diplomatic and consular posts as well as our operators. It must not be a taboo anymore. That is the whole meaning of the identical amendments that we have defended, Frédéric Petit and I, aimed at fully integrating the elected representatives of the French who were established outside France into the local development council, under the authority of our ambassadors. Local entrepreneurs, like my friend, the excellent Gérard Sénac, who has been responsible for Eiffage in Senegal for more than thirty years, whom you know, Minister, and all the consular elected officials around him are legitimate to intervene on these issues. The progress of this text represents progress for Parliament, for our partners, as well as for our compatriots living in France or abroad. Article 2 reinforces Parliament's information; Article 6 promotes international volunteering arrangements; Article 7 makes Expertise France a subsidiary of AFD. With this text, France aims to provide itself with the means to combat global inequalities more effectively and to protect global public goods, as the pandemic that we are going through challenges the maps of the world order. The upward trend in official development assistance allocations, in line with the commitment of the President of the Republic to increase it from France to 0.55 per cent of gross national income in 2022, is excellent news. I have no doubt that during the debates we will be able to go beyond and reach 0.7% by 2025, as various amendments call for. In accordance with its ADN, the Action Together group wanted to make a constructive amendment to this bill. In particular, we will defend full respect for the objectives of sustainable development, with an amendment by my colleague Aina Kuric, the creation of innovative schemes such as 1% housing international solidarity, with an amendment by my colleague Vincent Ledoux, the strengthening of the alliance with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations or the construction of the Mediterranean Renewable Energy Community, which I will defend in line with the resolution on this subject adopted here almost unanimously on 26 November. In the continuation of the speech delivered by the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou, it is for us to extend the legislative sequence to international content begun since the autumn with the draft law on the restitution of cultural property in Senegal and Benin. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] The end of the CFA franc opens a new cycle in relations between France and the African continent. Memorial questions, diasporas or the Francophonie can no longer be the great forgotten of development policies; They must be at its centre: it is indeed a paradigm shift that this is about, to put an end to fatalistic discourses. The resilience of many African States is one of the main lessons learned from the health crisis we face. It is up to us to consider this new programming in a win-win partnership framework and to get out of the miserabilistic cliché of official development assistance. Africa is changing, our official development assistance policy must adapt; As the late Colonel Thomas Sankara would say, to achieve this, "let us dare to invent the future."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u139	Sankara, that's dared!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u140	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u141	[[Smile]] I knew that by speaking last, I wouldn't be the first to start my speech with a "Finally! "But I did not know that it would be the rapporteur himself who would be the first to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u142	He's speeding you up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u143	I am sure, minister, that you yourself, when the bill was passed two months ago in Council of Ministers, you also blew "at last! "
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u144	Yes, absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u145	I welcome the tenacity you have shown for three years now, as well as that of our rapporteur, Hervé Berville. But admit that it is a bit crazy – it has been said, it will be said again – and perhaps even new, I do not have enough hindrance to vote, to vote for a programming that covers only one year, and therefore a fiscal year. We will return to that, but I would like to acknowledge the importance France attaches to its official development assistance today, which is reflected in this law. The major crisis that we are going through obviously makes it more necessary than ever. The extreme poverty that is predicted to increase sharply this year as a result of the pandemic, climate change, the collapse of biodiversity, health crises: all the challenges we must face through our policies of solidarity and international partnership. France is its singularity and has long been committed to solidarity among nations, among peoples: we are all convinced here that we cannot act and think as if our country or even Europe were isolated from the rest of the world. What is true of the pandemic we are facing today is just as true, of course, of course, for the great challenges of inclusive and sustainable development of the countries of the South, economic and climate migration, climate change – which developing countries suffer more than we do, while our development has inflicted this disruption on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u146	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u147	Strengthening, focusing on priorities, better evaluation of aid is essential. But this must not free us from other important reforms, as Dominique Potier pointed out. We need help – that's a term you've used, minister – but what will this mutual assistance weigh if we continue to exploit resources beyond the planetary limits? We need mutual assistance, but what will it weigh without a profound renewal of trade between countries, without any option other than those major free trade treaties which are free from the Paris Agreement and which, in many cases, contribute to the impoverishment of the most vulnerable? We discussed the financial path in committee; We will discuss it again tonight and Friday. But beyond that, we must focus our efforts on geographical priorities, sectoral priorities, priorities for instruments. These priorities have been so lacking in our official development assistance, and for so many years: access to basic services for all, education, health, access to water, sanitation, housing, gender equality, the fight against climate change and, above all, adaptation to climate change, and the preservation of global public goods. We welcomed the commitment of the President of the Republic to make the vaccine a global public good. For it to be accessible to all, we will now have to move from speech to action: it will obviously be less easy. Finally, I welcome, of course, the concentration of our aid towards poor priority countries, particularly in Africa. Let's go back to this financial trajectory. Perhaps it is unprecedented, as I said, to vote for programming on a fiscal year. This text is intended to be programmatic: what more does it propose than what a finance bill could do for next year?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u148	A horizon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u149	So we will hear a lot about 0.55%, 0.7%; Some will say that these are totems, that one should not be dogmatic about it, that the important thing is to do better and that one can do better with so much or even with less. Can we simply agree, ladies and gentlemen, that a 50-year-old international commitment does not prevent us from being intelligent? We can do more and better at the same time! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – MM. the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur also applaud]] With this bill, it is not just a matter of voting a law of programming but of asserting a vision of the world that has always made the singularity of France's place in the concert of nations. Let us never forget: with less than 0.5 per cent of the wealth of the developed countries mobilized, official development assistance is the only global redistribution mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u150	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u151	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u152	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u153	We can only welcome the introduction of this article in the text by the Committee on Foreign Affairs: it aims to highlight the major objectives of the policy of solidarity development and the fight against the global inequalities of France. Thus, from the very beginning of the bill, these objectives will be more visible than in the context of an annexed global partnership. In a few sentences, the article presents a quasi-exhaustive picture of France's intentions: eradication of poverty, protection of global public goods, fight against inequalities, fight against food insecurity and malnutrition, protection of the planet, promotion of human rights, strengthening the rule of law and democracy, and promotion of equality between women and men – everyone knows that our feminist diplomacy will be particularly embedded in the dimension of development aid. Article 1a is also a method of promoting a comprehensive political dialogue with partner countries, in association with representatives of their civil society. This policy is based on a holistic vision including humanitarian action and aims to ensure continuity between the emergency, reconstruction and development phases. Finally, the article is part of major international texts, international human rights and humanitarian law standards and the achievement of sustainable development goals. These broad objectives fall within the five key areas defined in 2015 by the United Nations: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, the introduction of this article was necessary; Each word is weighed at the bottom of it, each sentence is chiseled, each paragraph lays down an element of the decor and draws the new horizon of solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u154	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u155	This clause was not included in the original version of the bill; it is the result of our committee work. I also thank Hervé Berville for his openness. We spent two days working from morning to evening with all our colleagues to enrich the text, and our rapporteur, as well as MM. Drian and Lemoyne, present in committee throughout the discussion of the text, have heard us. As a Member of Parliament for the French constituency of the Maghreb and West Africa, I know how sometimes the development aid policy is invisible or misunderstood by our partners who benefit from it. [[Applause on the banks of the Agirens, some of the banks of the LaREM group]] Minister, I welcome the addition of this article, which highlights our work in committee. As my colleague said, this one enriched, given flesh, to a text that was a little austere, skeletal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u156	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u157	I, too, welcome the addition of this article and the efforts of the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It makes it possible to completely redefine the objectives of development aid policy, in all its acceptances, by resuming the 5 P of the United Nations: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership – great principles on which we can all, no matter where we sit, find ourselves. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and the commissions. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] It is useful and valuable, at the beginning of this bill, to clarify the pillars on which our development assistance policy is based. It is the responsibility of France and the entire international community to participate in the global effort to combat poverty, for development, and to support the most vulnerable countries towards a more sustainable and inclusive growth model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u158	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u159	Montaigne said: "It is a beautiful harmony when to say it and to do it go together. The bill should be a great opportunity to rethink our relationship with others. And because of this, the current crisis of the Covid-19 shows that in this low world we all depend on each other and that the problems of others are also ours. While I commend the efforts announced in this bill, it is more than necessary to observe the way things are going on in the field. Mr. Minister, you have drawn up a long list of priority countries for official development assistance, starting with Haiti, which really pleased me, as president of the France-Haiti friendship group of the National Assembly, which constantly calls on the members of the Government to pay close attention to this territory, whose centuries-old ties with France are known. I suggest that we measure the efficiency of these various projects in the light of the reality of the ground in the Republic of Haiti. Mr Minister, you have mentioned a number of points, from humanitarian commitment to development to stabilization. Well, at the moment, if we are present in this territory in terms of humanitarian aid, its inhabitants are still waiting for us for development and, with regard to stabilization, we are in a situation of failure. Clearly, our diplomacy and actions have not borne the desired fruit. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] I could have made that observation at the beginning of the Article 2 review, but since I would be on the plane Friday morning, I preferred to do it tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u160	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u161	This article, added in committee to the rapporteur's initiative – and I welcome the work of it – is very important, because it will allow the main objectives of the solidarity development policy, which we wish to implement, to be included in the framework of the law, rather than in the framework of the overall partnership annexed to the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u162	We have to say hello to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u163	This transcription is a good thing, and it was even essential in our view. In the course of this debate, we will also be defending amendments to continue to enrich this bill – I am thinking in particular of civil registration, and the information report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on children without identity, which I tabled with Mrs Aina Kuric, many of which have already spoken about. Indeed, according to the jurisprudence of the Council of State, the reports annexed to the programming or guidance laws merely set out objectives and have no normative value. Part of the debate will thus focus on the extent to which the provisions of the global partnership contract, which are devoid of normative value, have been transcribed into the hard law. If I thank the rapporteur for this article, we will table amendments as soon as it is examined in order to enrich the text itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u164	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 488.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u165	In committee, we were all satisfied, overall, with the wording of this article proposed by the rapporteur, and we tried not to amend it too much, out of respect for a text which is the result of listening to all the sensitivities. Nevertheless, our central concern, to the left of the Chamber – but it is shared more broadly – is that of coherence. However, this word is not present in the text. It should therefore be reaffirmed from the outset that France intends to pursue its commitment to official development assistance in line with other public policies. Indeed, if I do not go back to the arguments put forward by Mrs Dumont, the obligation of coherence is not of a normative nature at present: the effort of sincerity would be better expressed in a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u167	Mr Potier, if I understand your point very well, the opinion is unfavourable, for two reasons. First of all, if public policies are to be coherent, it is in the sense that, abroad, we must not take back what has been given by the other, as you have pointed out in the rostrum. However, your amendment aims to clarify that development policy must be consistent, not with France's other public policies outside France – migration policy, or commercial policy, among others – but "with France's other public policies". The wording you are proposing therefore does not correspond to your objective. Secondly, this requirement of consistency with France's other policies outside France is already included in Article 2, thanks to strong amendments by our colleague Bérengère Poletti and by you adopted in committee and in the CPG.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u169	Mr Potier, if I too understand your concerns, I agree with the rapporteur. The requirement of coherence of public policies is intended to be included not in the first paragraph of Article 1a, which lists the objectives of public development policy, but in Article 2, which specifies the purpose of the annual report transmitted to Parliament by the Government, since the issue is at stake. The opinion is therefore unfavourable for reasons of form and not substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u170	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u171	It is intended to replace the words "main objectives" with the words "only objectives" in the first subparagraph. We have discussed the objectives of development policy well, so that they are all presented in this paragraph and there is no reason to add them. And then we know the temptation, which is still likely to manifest itself with some amendments, to make development policy the instrument of other public policies. It should therefore be made clear that the objectives listed in this subparagraph are the only ones, especially since they already include, inter alia, the fight against extreme poverty, the reduction of global inequalities and the protection of global public goods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u173	It is unfavorable, because we may have forgotten objectives, despite our collective intelligence, or that other fundamental development aid objectives are needed in three years' time. So let us not limit the text. For example, the issue of children without identity was not central 20 years ago, even though it already existed; In the same way, the preservation of humanitarian space was not the same as it was thirty years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u175	So let's not close doors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u176	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u177	To eradicate poverty "in all its dimensions" is a noble objective. It is, however, utopian, you will admit. But the law is not intended to be utopian: it is part of the real and has no incantatory value. It is also useful to measure the real effects. As such, I do not resist the temptation to quote an excerpt from La Ruée vers l'Europe, by Stephen Smith, a specialist in Africa, a journalist at Libération and then at the World: "Here is a second paradox: the countries of the North subsidise the countries of the South, through development aid, so that the poor can live better and – it is not always said so frankly – stay at home. In doing so, the rich countries shoot themselves in the foot. At least initially, they pay a migration bonus by helping poor countries reach the threshold of prosperity from which their inhabitants have the means to leave and settle elsewhere. It is the aporie of co-development that aims to keep the poor at home while it finances their uprooting. » Hell is paved with good intentions, and unfortunately, the policy of solidarity development mentioned in your bill may well be one of its illustrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u179	The opinion is unfavourable. This article defines the objectives: yet the eradication of poverty is one of them. The term "poverty reduction", on the other hand, refers to means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u181	We must also add to the rapporteur's remarks that we have retained this expression because it corresponds exactly to the general guidelines agreed by the United Nations, within the framework of Agenda 2030. The term had also been chosen following discussions by the Government with development actors represented in CNDSI. If the opinion is unfavourable, then it is really on the merits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u182	Further discussion was postponed to the first sitting on Friday, 19 February.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1175.u183	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Proposal for a law on the creation of individual support for solidarity emancipation; Proposal for a law strengthening the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence; Proposal for a law establishing a compensation fund for victims of the covid-19; Proposal for a law to reform the taxation of inheritance and donation rights: to protect the middle and popular classes, and to better redistribute wealth. The meeting is adjourned.
